ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 157 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 170 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. You have received the resignations of MPs of Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, Bosko Ničić, Prof. Dr. Nebojša Zdravković and Milosav Milickovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly on the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation was the case under Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandate to the MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs The National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time on which the MPs were elected, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, Bosko Nicic, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Zdravković and Milosava Milickovic, were elected the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharges of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Also, according to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, and until the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in items 1 to 24 of the agenda, because of the need for the National Assembly to complete this session at the planned pace of work before the start of the regular session period. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Gogić, Susana Spasojevic and Vesna Stepic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 123 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I am in addition to the representative of the motions of Ivica Dačić, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior; Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry; Master Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government; Prof. Dr. Žarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Agriculture and Water Management; Prof. Dr. Žarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Defence, Minister of Public Affairs, Minister of Public Affairs and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Public Affairs of Foreign Affairs, Minister of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the National Assembly of the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament with a call for the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2012 which was convened at the request of 123 MPs in accordance with Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the ninth extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. I'm sorry, I just made one little procedural mistake. We have the basis of Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, you have the right to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? National MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1533	Mr. President, members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. I would ask the government a question, given that the response we expect requires the coordination of several ministries. Yesterday, at a press conference, I informed the public that the DSS parliamentary group would ask to be examined in the Assembly for the rest of the examination of what happened with falsifying data on Serbia's public debt. Did it happen or not? It is very important that we determine the true truth, as the figure of a billion and 200m euros is mentioned. In this poor Serbia, where more than 700,000 people live on the edge of existence, there must certainly be this size of a figure that will also be dealt with by the Serbian Parliament. Whether or not it should be established by the Serbian Parliament, but what we certainly know, and what is about the previous government led by the DS, is that politics, that the EU has no alternative has made Serbia sick and that its result is that Serbia is self-indebted on the other side of deception. This particular story, or information about public debt fraud, represents a kind of deception. I will remind you that in 2010, another delusion occurred, during the previous government, when it tried to fake the decline of the gross social product, by presenting it at 3.1%, and it turned out to be a real statistical shock, that it was actually a real drop of 6.2%, which tells us how much the real implications and the perilous and wrong policies were that the EU had no alternative. It has led to Serbia being in charge of more than 15 billion euros today, that every day Serbia is more in charge of 7.5m euros compared to the previous day. That's why it's important to deal with this issue. If the new government hadn't happened to what happened to the previous government, and God forbid we, we see that at the beginning of this term we have the opportunity to hear shocking things about what was going on in the previous government and the question is what else is going to come out. So that the finance minister would not experience what was happening in the previous period, he openly, clearly and loudly says whether the budget's rebalancing is meant to set aside payments for those powers that have been lifted by the Serbian Constitutional Court's decision. To remind me, the Constitutional Court's decision, when a law or provision is such that it does not comply with the Serbian Constitution, is thus deleted, it is invalid. While I am saying this, there is still a Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina on the official site of the government of Vojvodina, with those provisions that have been abolished by the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Also, on July 10th, the Constitutional Court made the decision, on July 11th, Bojan Pajtic forms the government of Vojvodina and part of that government is also the Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, which is also unconstitutional after the Constitutional Court's decision, therefore. Thus, we see that the government of the AP Vojvodina is absolutely disregarded by the Constitution of Serbia and therefore it is very important that the finance ministry takes care of where every citizen of Serbia goes. Since the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia has been made, have the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts been paid or financed, this Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, is the office in Brussels funded, because every payment must have a legal basis? So if we could answer that question, we'd see very clearly where these Vojvodina money actually went. It is very important that the Serbian government, which under the Constitution has the right to monitor and monitor law enforcement, sees what is actually happening to the execution and decision of the Constitutional Court when it comes to the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1534	Thank you. People's MP Miljenko Deretta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is from an area that nobody really cares about, it's about culture, but I'm still going to ask. Namely, in countries that hold to respect for their rights, if it is established that the minister has not paid the tax, it is mostly resolved. As you know, this government has been formed including a member of the government's Culture Minister, who has publicly admitted that it owes eight million dinars to this state. My question was addressed to both the Prime Minister and Mr. Petkovic himself, the culture minister. First, did that tax pay? If not, what will the president do about it? If so, from whom he received the loan he announced, i.e. Credit and under what conditions? I think when it comes to the transparency of funding, this is a little detail that can help us see how this government will really relate to it. In that context, I have to say that obviously the Ministry of Culture is implementing a special policy of saving, I don't know what to call it, except for the insults of some institutions that are related to our cultural history. In fact, the 47 were recently opened. Wet days. No one from the Ministry of Culture was present for the first time. For the first time in 47 years, it was opened by the director of the cultural centre. Is this a government policy that won't recognise our tradition? Is this the government's policy that will thus refer to cultural institutions that do not take place in Belgrade? Is this a government policy that will actually record Serbia's cultural policy? If it is, then I think culture should be put on the list of the first enemies of this government and then, I think, the cultural public will treat it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1536	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1537	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer to this session. To that question, you as president can give me an answer right now. I ask – why are no consultations being held during this session of parliament, since we have made very important decisions, such as the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the nights? I'm afraid we'll also be bringing budget rebalances into the night hours. I don't think it's a good practice and it creates an atmosphere in which at some times that are not suitable, and the public is very interested in what this session will look like, as it was and was interested, and what the session on the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia looked like. I'm afraid we won't allow all people to properly consider the government's concerns for standards, employment and all that matters most to them. Also, we have already talked about this, and I think we have agreed that Parliament's control role in relation to the work of the government should be strengthened, especially in relation to some previous period. That's what you were talking about when you were the opposition. I wonder why more than half the ministers you've read about should be present at this session are not here? I wonder if it'll be a practice, because it's something that's being dragged from the last session of parliament? What are their justifications for not being present and when they will be present if they are not now when the budget rebalancing law is passed, which is the most important law in a current year that parliament can pass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1538	I'll answer you right now. As for time, I think the afternoon part of the session, since we're going to discuss it today, you'll see later, is proposed to merge the agenda points, just one item on the agenda. So, the debate will take five hours. In the afternoon, this five-hour debate is just fine when the citizens return home from work, so they can monitor the course of the debate. I give you my opinion. Their ability to track is the same as in the afternoon, with what they can do from their home. As far as the urgency of an appointment is concerned, I would love to, and I honestly think that if we could discuss all these laws six months later, through public debates, but I'm afraid the situation in the Serbian economy is such that if it were the case, the question is what would be left of Serbia in six months. Appreciateing the government's desire to discuss laws that change things and which seem to be making some progress, to do so as soon as possible, and the system laws we will certainly have opportunities, such as the Public Procurement Act or some future laws that we will discuss. Those laws aren't on the agenda today. They've been in the process for months. You have a chance to see them, you have a chance to have a public discussion about them. I'll certainly try to have enough time, and you're right on that side. I will try to have more time for us as the National Assembly to consider. This won't be a place for the government to slip through a small door, but here I wanted to appreciate the desire for things to change quickly, especially because of the economic situation in which Serbia is located and the efforts that await us. I hope this answer is enough, but if you want, I can answer it in writing. MP Gjorge Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1539	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister Knezevic. I am sorry that Minister Ljajic is not present, since the subject is related to trade, but this is about the next one. In public, it has been quite undetected, but a regulation on temporary quantitative export restrictions for certain types of goods, i.e. soybeans, sunflowers and sugar tails, has been adopted. My question would be in terms of – what is the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture about this, given that this is a couple of excellant issues that are being treated by the agricultural resort, I do not see in whose particular interest this Regulation has been adopted, unless it is in the interest of large capital, or those who buy these agricultural products, or perhaps as regards the need to safeguard some social peace. In any case, the measure is something that is a relic of long ago. I don't see why it would be to the harm of a particular farmer in Vojvodina, where I come from, to carry out the measures. It's not a problem for agriculture to be stimulated, but the problem is when we say we want a duchy peasant who lives in the city who wants to get to the groceries maybe cheaper. All in all, I would only like an explanation from Mr. Knezevic on the subject of this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1540	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1541	Dear President, gentlemen of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the management of the public firm PTT Serbia and the competent ministry. Before that, one finding that is generally known in terms of one practice and definition, that we have one approach in terms of rationalising certain activities and achieving certain objectives in the direction of rationalisation through restrictive access to what life is in the country, in rural areas, by gradually shutting down certain activities in rural areas, such as school districts, such as local offices when it comes to state administration, or not to local self-government bodies, the abolition of rural clinics, the abolition of mail and so on. So it's all going towards a faster process of depopulation, leaving the village, which is already a dramatic process that takes place in Serbia. With that in mind, let me get back to the question. I ask the question - when is the post manager's appointment of 12308 Oreshovica in the municipality of Petrovac on Mlava planned? This is now part of a specific question, i.e. a concrete answer is required. I also have a few general questions about this and about this public enterprise. Is it going to be that I don't open up new... . (President: May I have your attention, please, to allow the MP to finish asking questions. )......................................................................................................... ... and by shutting down existing mail in rural areas, slowly shutting down one of the largest public enterprises in Serbia? Should all postal traffic be done, or should it go to the hands of private operators? Whether or not to open and shut down existing mail goes to the point that only once a week in rural areas mail is delivered.? Is it possible that one man can cover four or more districts? All these issues are related to the previous finding and, if we are thinking strategically and if we are talking about regional even development in Serbia, then I need to make basic assumptions about normal life and the work of people, not only in cities but also in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1542	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1543	Thank you. Dear President, I only have one question to ask you, and I noticed that the same question was asked to you by the Yugoslav MP, but you did not, or did you avoid the answer, or did you forget that it was the first thing he asked in his presentation, which is – why was he left out this time by a college of MPs? I think it would be very helpful to prepare this session. As you can see, we have over 35 agenda points and MPs are not doing very well today in this session. You, I think, at yesterday's press conference said you were expecting a quality debate from MPs about the proposed laws. I'd like to draw your attention, if you don't know that, and the vice president of this House, to the delivery of material. On the day before yesterday, at some afternoon hours, when, however, after 15 hours, we finally received a call and determined what it will be by emergency procedure all on the agenda, we learned from the technical secretary that there are about a dozen new laws in the MPs' clubs, offices, though, the offices of MPs who have such working conditions. I see in the hall today that MPs who do not live in Belgrade, and now we have a category of MPs who are from Belgrade and those who are not, and I can tell you that there is still this category of MPs who do not live in Belgrade, have not been able to read all the proposed agenda points, prepare and possibly submit amendments, and in general, to prepare for the discussion. I'd like you to tell me why this happened. I am asking on my behalf and on behalf of many MPs, not only on behalf of the parliamentary club that I represent today as president, but also on behalf of other MPs who have commented on this way of delivering material to the offices. You know for yourself, today when it came, how long someone can prepare for that, as you pointed out, a quality debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1544	As for the budget that is our bearing and most important law, it is already in the procedure, that is, the budget rebalance, it has been in the process for seven days and is available to all MPs on the National Assembly website. They were both informed by my cabinet and by the chief of staff of all the parliamentary groups at any time when the material arrived at the National Assembly. I kept in touch with the parliamentary groups and informed about the pace and dynamics of the activities that take place in the National Assembly. You had a chance to get the material on Wednesday. I think seven days was enough. I hope the MPs come to the National Assembly, not to receive a salary sitting at home, but to come to the National Assembly at least once in seven days, to ask about what is going on in the National Assembly, especially when there are serious announcements from both my cabinet and the media, that there is a very important debate that is under way and that will take place in the next period. Also, the last set of laws we got, of which one part of the law won't be on the agenda today, we got on Friday, four or five days ago. The parliamentary groups have also been properly informed about this, and all the laws in the procedure are in place from the moment of reception, after a few minutes or ten minutes and on the National Assembly site. Of course, they were also delivered to MP groups. You have opportunities like everyone else. We don't have technical opportunities in this building right now to provide everyone with offices and cabinets. There's a building in King Milan. Unfortunately, this building is insufficient, and I cannot at the expense of other parliamentary groups that have the same problems with the number of offices, or with the space they are in, we are looking for solutions, but unfortunately the building cannot be expanded, it is as large as it is. I hope that everything that's going on, that is, what's informing you and my cabinet, is enough and that they're good instructions, in the sense that you have an indication of what's going to happen within some real time frame. As I told Mr. Jugovic, I am sorry, and I would like it most if it could take a few months and we are having a debate about it, but the question is, what kind of economic situation would be in Serbia if it were to happen and wait a few months for a public debate on each of the proposed laws? I'm afraid we wouldn't be able to discuss any of these laws in the entire term. National MP Maja Gojkovic is asking for a replica, but during this period you do not have the right to reply in the course of asking questions. I just gave you an answer. This isn't a debate. National MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1545	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, probably like Mr. Deretta said, my question will not touch you or turn you on, but I have to ask him and it's not about culture, it's about environmentalism. For the last ten days, we've witnessed an enormous pollution on Uncle Tissy. This may be a question for both the Minister and the Minister, but above all for the Director of the Environment Protection Agency. Did she and why didn't she take samples on Tissy? Why didn't anyone from the Agency go out on the river of Turkey to the Great Cranians next to the thermal power plant yesterday? According to our knowledge, they don't have enough resources. If that's the case, why don't they have enough resources at the Agency? Is it possible for private companies and state-owned companies to send private laboratories to do analysis on behalf of the state and for the benefit of the citizens? In line with this question, it is likely that today's debate will be about environmental laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1546	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1547	Thank you. For your information, the Ministry's inspection service is on site. It's not just a question for the Environmental Protection Agency, it's a question for the ministry itself. So inspection services do their job and you'll have information about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1548	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1549	Indeed, I will briefly try to ask the government a question about the new challenges set before this country and the demands that have come from Berlin. Everybody knows what I'm talking about. When, within the deadline, we will finally see the formation of a negotiating team of the Republic of Serbia and, ambitiously in the campaign announced, a plan for KIM, as well as a platform on which further negotiations will be conducted with an effort to resolve this problem. Therefore, I think it is one of the burning issues that is now absolutely and directly related to the issue of European integration. If it is true, of course, no one in this government thinks in any way that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is at risk, as we did not want. I am interested in who and how will sign an agreement on good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and, if no one will sign it and initial it, how will we avoid this very unpleasant situation? In the end, I'd just like to make a request, well-intentioned, for you, President Stefanovic. I understand that as President of the Assembly you have very lively activities in the diplomatic sphere, you have constant contacts with foreign ambassadors, but I would ask you to teach your advisors, and yourself, that it is really not necessary for every meeting with the foreign ambassador to take place in front of the media cameras because it undermines your reputation and this institution. In fact, there is no such thing in Europe anywhere, so I don't see why the Serbian Parliament would be different, without reducing your right and obligation to have regular contacts with foreign representatives. So that's not what I'm arguing about. I only dispute the need to broadcast every step, even with job senders, in the media and to be covered by all possible agencies operating in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1550	There's never been a record of any encounters with a job sender. So, no video, since we haven't recorded such encounters. Everything else falls within the scope of Parliament's work. I think Serbian citizens have the right to know what activities are in the National Assembly whether it is the National Assembly president or any other MP. All countries are equally important to us, and we want citizens to have full insight into the public work of what the president of the National Assembly is doing. We didn't hold a press conference. It was just video material that represented the moment of the meeting of the president of the Assembly and representatives of another state. So much, but thank you for your well-meaning. Do any of the heads of Parliament or authorised representatives want a word? (No) With a call from the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was convened at the request of the 123rd National MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the ninth extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2012, the following Dn e n i r e : 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tobacco law; 6. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fiscal registers; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act; 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Privatisation Act; 11. Proposal for a law amending the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic; 12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety; 13. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Environment Fund; 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Chemical Act; 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act; 16. Proposal for a Law amending the Forest Act; 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on cattle farming; 18. Proposal for a Law amending the Wine Act; 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act; 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees; 21. Proposal for a Law amending the Air Traffic Act; 22. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads; 23. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act; 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act; 25. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the 2012 Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2012 Financial Plans: 1) of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, 2) of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, 3) of the National Employment Service; 26. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act; 27. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act; 28. Proposal for a law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector; 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria; 30. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the contribution of the United Nations'stand by' system; 31. Proposal for a law confirming the amendment of the Statute of the International Monetary Fund on the Reform of the Committee of Executive Directors; 32. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying and the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying; 33. A proposal to elect a deputy governor of the National Bank of Serbia, who was submitted by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia; 34. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of the public funds of the National Assembly; 35. Proposals for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which they submitted: Democratic Party of Serbia- Vojislav Kostunica's Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's MP group, the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group of the United Regions of Serbia and the New Serbia MP group; 36. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. Since a proposal has been tabled for a merger of debates on certain points of the agenda, before we move to a decision on the proposal, we need to determine whether there is a quorum to decide on. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that 168 MPs are present in the hall and therefore the conditions for decision are met. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), paragraphs 2 and 2. 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Value Added Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Taxation of Citizens, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on Exchanges, the Proposal for an Amendments to the Laws on the Laws on Amendments to the Laws on the Laws on Amendments to the Laws on the Laws on Amendments to the Laws of Laws, the Laws on the Laws on the Laws of Laws on the Laws of Laws of Laws on the Laws on the Laws of Laws on the Laws of Laws of Laws on the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Laws on the Laws of Laws on the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws, of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, of Laws of Laws of Laws on Amendments of Amendments of Amendments, Amendments, Amendments on Amendments on Amendments of Laws, Amendments of Amendments, Amendments of Amendments, Amendments, Amendments of Amendments of Amendments, Amendments of Amendments of Amendments of Laws, Amendments, Amendments of Laws of Laws of Laws, Amendments, of Laws, Amendments of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, of Laws, of Laws of Laws, of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, of Laws of Laws, of Laws of Laws, of Laws, of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, of Laws, of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws The second joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, with proposals for decisions to give consent to amendments and amendments to the 2012 Financial Plans, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Pension and Invalidity Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector. Third Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the UN on the Contribution of the State of Bay of the UN, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amendment to the Statute of the IMF on Reform of the Committee of Executive Directors and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Reading of Persons who are illegally staying and Protocol for the Implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Reading of Persons who are illegally staying. The Fourth Joint Single Search on: Proposal to elect the Vice-Governmentary of the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision on the election of the DRI Council, the motion for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the RS in international parliamentary institutions. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and I declare that 123 MPs voted against, against one, the abstentions were not, there was no vote of 49 MPs out of 173. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Moving to work on the agenda: Joint principled search on points of 1-24 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the law on the agenda, according to point. 1-24, and before the search opens, I remind you, it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone suggest that the time of debate increase? (No) Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes, the six minutes, the National Group of Serbia's six minutes, and six minutes, the National Party of Serbia's national group – the six minutes – the National Party and six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this agenda, MPs: MP Djordje Stojsic, MP of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, MP Nenad Popovic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS, MP Miljenko Dereta, MP of the LDP, MP Veroljub Arsic, SNS parliamentary group, MP Miletic Mihajlovic, MP of the SPS. I apologize, since I have here for Zoran Kasalovic and Mr Miletic Mihajlovic, I am interested in who is in front of the SPS parliamentary group? So, Mr. Kasalovic. All right. DSS MP, Mr Popovic. Is he all right? Yeah. Thank you. I'm sorry, since we got the memo by mistake, so Mr. Jovanovic is as the head of the LDP parliamentary group, that's what the memo says, but I guess it's a technical mistake. According to Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration; Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxation; Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens; Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises; Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government; Amendments to the Law on Tourism; Amendments to the Law on the Law of the Republic of Administrative Taxation; Amendments to the Law on Obligation in Transport; Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Local Self-Governing and on Nuclear Security; Amendments of the Laws of the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Laws of Fundamentals and on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws and of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws Is that what the motionor's representatives want? He has the word Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1551	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you are facing a package of 27 essential laws that begins the first phase of fiscal consolidation in Serbia. Today, 24 will be considered, and three are foreseen together with the budget rebalance, which is the next point. Before I say the details of these laws, I would like to report to you on the current state of public finances in Serbia, on the level of public debt and on the problems facing our country. So currently in Serbia there is a record budget deficit. Never in the history of the budget deficit was more than 7% of gross domestic product, in fact, it was never even above 5%, let alone above 7% of gross domestic product. Public debt has reached about 56% of gross domestic product, by the end of this year it will be 60%, with the inability to, I do not know what measures to take now, stop its growth in the following year and the first year when it is possible to realistically stop the growth of public debt is in 2014. It's only since then that he's been going down. Why? Because public debt is increasing on the basis of a loan financed by the budget deficit this year and financed by the budget deficit in previous years. It's like driving a fast car, if you freeze, you can't stop right now. The period of intruding in this case takes at least another year and a half. In order for Serbia's public debt to be halted in 2014, the earliest year for it to be stopped and according to the Fiscal Council, and we agree absolutely with it in the Ministry of Finance, it is necessary to cut the budget deficit in the following year, down to a maximum of 3.5% of gross domestic product. The package of measures that we are adopting today creates conditions to bring it to 4% next year, which means that when we adopt the 2013 budget, which will be very soon, we will have to take additional measures to go, to bring it down to 3.5%. It's something that's a demanding job, but we in the government are going to do that job and do it for a reason that everything else would be irresponsible to the citizens. I'll give you an example of why. The cost of the interest planned with the original budget this year is 55 billion dinars. The rebalance increases these interest costs to 66 billion, because it takes so much to pay to finance the budget deficit. The following year, regardless of the reduction in this budget deficit I'm talking about, it will have to be allocated 93 billion. So, at 55, at 66 in just one year, at 93 in the next. If we compare that to the agricultural budget, only this year will the interest be given three times more than the total allocations per the original agricultural budget, and next year more. I don't think the ministry has as much budget as we spend on interest. It's simply unsustainable and it's unsustainable. It is unsustainable unless, of course, a radical budget deficit is cut, and we intend to do so. That's why so many laws today are in front of you united into one point, because to carry out fiscal consolidation it's not enough to move a few tax rates or several categories of expenditure to a standstill. The big problem in our system is that there was no discipline in public finances. So, right now, the Budgetary System Act provides for the possibility of many holes in budget spending. This is why we amend the Budgetary System Act, abolishing the own revenues of all direct budget beneficiaries. What does that mean? All institutions that are budget, ministries, agencies, funds will no longer have so-called funds. Your own income. In the future, you too, the MPs and the entire public, will be able to see in only one column. There will be no other column that existed as its own income, for the reason that an analysis of the spending of money from its own income shows that one good part of that money is spent irrationally, unintendedly and wastefully. What's that amount of money? It's not about small amounts of money. Own revenues are due to be around 400m euros next year. Of these 400m euros, surely half the money can be saved by planning expenditure rationally, not as it has been so far. More importantly, the Ministry of Finance, namely the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to control all spending, and MPs will be able to monitor these spendings, because the expenditures financed from their own incomes have never actually been subject to serious control. Never, in history it wasn't a case. In this way, all revenues will be the general revenues of the Serbian state, and thus all expenditure will be able to be established in the prescribed budgetary procedure, approved by parliament, and the government will implement concrete programmes. What does that mean? This means that if there are various fees and fees in our system, e.g. to the environment, mentions an MP, related to Tisa, an environmental problem, and they are not small, and should remain in the system, then the money should be spent on protecting the environment, not on promotional activities, not on pre-election campaigns, not on car repairs in ministries, not on the operation of air conditioning, not on any other purpose other than environmental protection. I've cited this example, but there are examples like this in every ministry. There's no way to control the spending of your own income. That's why we're proposing to amend the Budgetary System Act to abolish them. Why am I talking about this? Because that's going to make one savings on the bulky side of the budget in this quarter, in the last year, and even 20 billion dinars next year. Our goal is to stop the permanent growth of the budget deficit by a package of laws that we hope this assembly will adopt. In the next month, we will also bring a medium-term plan, not only fiscal measures, but structural reforms that should bring down the budget deficit level not only in 2013, but in all the years to come, at a level that is sustainable. We believe that the sustainable level is if we cut the budget deficit to 3.5% of GDP next year, if we cut it to 1.9% of GDP in 2014 and in 2015 we reduce to 1%, so that in 2016 we have a balanced budget. In order to do so, some expenditure will have to be reduced, it will be done already in the budget for next year, and it must also not be excessively affected by revenues, because it then inhibits economic activity. So our job wasn't any less simple. The government had to find solutions that would stop public debt rising, prevent debt crisis and cramp the scenario, and on the other hand, by not increasing revenues, or taxes on production, but by saving up spending and increasing some consumption taxes. So at the same time, we had the challenge of how to do it in a way that we didn't hit those who today are the most difficult, and these are people who are socially endangered, and these are primarily entrepreneurs, craftsmen, small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. How can we evenly deploy a relatively higher burden on those who can bear it more? That's why we made the whole package. We could theoretically do this fiscal consolidation programme with amendments to four laws, but then we would not honestly pass the burden of stopping the crisis on Serbian citizens. We wanted it to be because, at the same time, when we have an increase in consumption taxes, we also want to have some unnecessary charges and taxis lifted. It was precisely because of the insufficiently good Law on the Budgetary System in the previous years that every ministry, every state body, every agency, whether on a republican, regional or local level, could introduce new charges, fees and fees and economics, and to citizens by criteria that were not defined. Often, fees were introduced as a percentage of the total company income, regardless of the fact that the tax had nothing to do with the activity they were carrying out. One of them was forest. The income of Serbia's own agriculture ministry, which is now charged for the total income of all businesses, regardless of whether they have ties or have nothing to do with agriculture. We now prohibit the new Budgetary System Act that anyone other than the Ministry of Finance can in the future introduce new taxes and fees to citizens and businesses, and that on the other hand, we reduce the existing number of parafiscal duties to some, at this point after 45 days of work of the new Government, a reasonable level, although I think there can be more of the parafiscal burdens. That is why we have also decided to send to you a whole series of laws that eliminates even 138 different parafiscal commitments and which, above all, need to disband entrepreneurs and small businesses, and there are 300,000 in Serbia, because they will benefit the most from this measure, proportionately, most now bear the effects of the crisis if we talk about the economy. As for this part, therefore, we have passed proposals before you 18 laws that abolished 138 parafiscal duties, six resolution ministries have proposed these laws, even 121 taxes are of republican character, so now it's a republican income, 12 are of local character, and five combined local-republic character. I know it's going to be boring for someone to listen to, but I'm going to read literally every one of these taxis that's been abolished for reasons that in the previous years it wasn't a very common case of intrusions being lifted, but they were introduced. These duties have been imposed for years, but now, if you support it, they have been abolished since October 1st, in one day. First of all, it's a company. The company is being abolished by 300,000 entrepreneurs and small businesses. It fully limits their amount for medium-sized enterprises and other enterprises. It is abolished entirely for entrepreneurs and small utility tax companies to highlight advertising. It existed in two forms, both forms were abolished, and limited their amount by medium and high to 20% of the existing reduced company. The communal fee for holding and using water test facilities and other water facilities is abolished; the municipal fee for using a window, for displaying goods outside the business room; the communal fee for holding and using boats and rafts on water, except for boats that use organisations that maintain and mark waterways; the communal fee for holding restaurants and other catering and entertainment facilities on water. I have to say, there are already other fees for these facilities. Often in Serbia, you have taxation on multiple sides of the same thing. This way, at least this one's gone. A communal fee for keeping domestic and exotic animals. Maybe the citizens didn't know, and every inoculation of dogs and cats costs extra for this tax that was charged with vaccination. Further, this is a communal tax for the use of shores in business and any purpose; communal fees for holding music devices and processing of a music programme in catering facilities; administrative fees for the requirement to determine the conditions of application for the use of the goods; for establishing compliance with conditions for the reception, storage and delivery of agricultural products, as well as equipment for the determination of the quantity and quality of agricultural products; and for the performance of the characteristics of the goods storage of agricultural products in public storage; tax for the registration of goods and funds; fees for the registration of changes in the register of goods in the register of goods; and for the use of goods in the register of goods; and for the collection of goods in the register of goods; and for the collection of goods of goods in the register of goods; You can see that there were several taxis for the same thing so that people sitting in those organizations would have these own incomes that they then spent. Then, the fee for re-entering the variety into the register of agricultural plant varieties; the tax for the solution to the requirement for the recognition of newly created homemade varieties of fruit, vines of vines and hops; the tax for the solution for the application for the registration of the importer and transporter to fruit material in the register; the tax for the solution for the entry into the register of seed producers, rases, mycelium, edible and medicinal fungi; the tax for the use of the product after the application for entry into the register of seed growers; the tax for the solution for the application for the re-packing of seeds; the fee for the assurance of the identification of seed products for the use of the product concerned; the fee for the use of the goods for the use of the product for the use of the product for the use of such information for the use of such as for the use of the product, for the use of such as for the use of the use of the use of the particulars for the product for the use of the product, the specific for the use of the specific for the product for the use for the use of the use of the specific, the product, the product, the product, the specific for the specific for the product, the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the specific for the use for the use of the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use of the use of the use for the use of the use for the use for the use of the use for the use for the use of the use for the use for the use of the use for the use for the use of the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use for the use of the use for the use for the use for the use for the use of the use for the use of the use for the use of the use for the use of the use for the specifics for the use of the use of the specifics, the specifics for the specifics, the specifics for the specifics for the specifics for the specifics, the specifics, the specifics, the specifics for the specifics for the specifics, the specifics, the specifics for the specifics for the specifics for the specifics, Thus, a total of 138 taxis and fees are suspended permanently, also revising existing pricers of different commissions and institutions, from the Commission to prevent money laundering through the Competition Protection Commission to local commissions. If someone is looking for the document of a state institution, which requires confirmation of another state institution, in all these cases, tax will no longer be paid. So far, every activity has been charged a tax. All those who charge certain fees will have to comply with the rules laid down by the law within a month of the date of entry into force of this law. The law says that fees and fees cannot be determined as a percentage of the total income of the company, but rather in a fixed amount covering the actual costs of the service provided. So as not to be ominous or by heart, it's that it's really going to be paid as much as it costs. If such pricemakers are not given consent by the end of March of next year, the various commissions, from local to republican, will cease to be valid. It is also given in this law, which means that apart from abolishing these 138 parafiscal duties, it will also go to combing different prices. If undosed, these fees will be reduced, but the principle of payment of the service provided will be used, not charged according to the size of the one asking for a service. The result of this is, above all, the discharge of entrepreneurs. Today, the caterers have to fill 40 different payments per month to pay different taxes and taxes, which are about 35. In Serbia, taxes are paid 66 times a year, and in Sweden only twice. Our intention, the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to create a simple tax system where we will have several large and important tax forms that exist in all countries, but that we will lift these numerous parafiscal burdens which are complicated, and on the other hand burden the economy. The effect of these discharges is totaling 10 billion dinars. So the overall effect is significant, but the relatively greater benefit will be for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, since it is normal that they will have more discharge than it will be for some larger companies. Also, the benefits of this will be for citizens, as four taxes paid today on registration of cars will be permanently abolished and one will be limited. Today, a lot of money is paid for car registration and this seems to be 12 to 13 payments depending on the city to the city. As of October 1st, everything will be done with only one payment, and the Treasury Administration will then distribute revenue to those who receive income from that fee, but two Republic car registration fees are completely abolished and part of this environmental tax, which applies to car registration, is abolished. I want to make one thing clear. The environmental tax is not abolished generally, they remain valid, only the part relating to car registration has been abolished and has so far been 500 dinars, because it has been a controversy in the public whether polluters will now be forgiven for what they are polluting or not. These fees remain and they remain the income of those who have so far been, the local local, republican republic, where these revenues will now be if the republican level is the general income of the budget, not this environmental fund that is being abolished, so that the Ministry of Energy and Environment Protection will have the exact same or new ones, it will depend on the policy of the Ministry, the environmental protection programmes, but these programmes will have to go to the government, and also to the Assembly, therefore, in the regular budgetary procedure to know exactly what is being paid, to pay for tire recycling, and not to provide batteries and tyres. What is the logic of the state today that a billion dinars for the disposal of second-hand batteries and second-hand tyres, so when you look at the statistics, it turns out that some of them imported from abroad, bought second-hand tyres and used batteries, opened the sheets and took care of them by storing them on their plots to get subsidies from the state? It's called environmental protection? If it's environmental protection, I'm not an environmentalist, but then I really don't know the area. It should be prohibited, as in the EU, for contaminants to delay harmful substances in irregular places and introduce dragon penalties, not to pay some private or any subsidy to take over a place that is ecologically incorrect and to store it in their own backyard because it receives a subsidy for it at enormous amounts. Now, when the Environment Fund is shut down, we have to say that there are about 5.8 billion dinars left in different agreements or contracts, one good part of which has nothing to do with environmental protection -- advertising costs, advertising, propaganda, and I've already said what else. It wasn't, the mild is the rational spending of budget money, which is why the system is changing. The inclusion of the smoking dinar in a specific excise duty does not mean that the health ministry will stop fighting smoking, but will have special programmes on the dispensary side approved by parliament. The same goes for all these fees and fees. This does not mean that the ministries will not perform the functions they are in charge of, but it will be controlled by being able to control both citizens and parliament and the government and this will lead to our estimates to save on the bulk side of the budget next year for 20 billion. We'll have three billion by the end of this year, and 20 next. To be precise, there is also health care to keep their own incomes to the universities and institutions of education. They only end with direct budget users, the laws we propose. Of course, fiscal consolidation was not enough to be done only through more rational spending of budget money. We had to have more savings on the bulky side of the budget, and therefore after the talks we had with the trade unions, above all, the representative unions of education and health and based on our estimates and the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, we decided to limit the growth of wages in public services and the public sector to the indexation of 2% in October, 2% in April of next year. So, that indexation is not done in these two accounting periods according to fiscal rules, but according to the real possibilities that the budget has, which means that the salaries in health care, education, the military, police and other public services and the public sector will grow 2% in October, 2% in April of next year, and pensions will monitor salary growth, so that pension indexation will be consistent with that. However, in order to help the most vulnerable pensioners, the first pension payment for those who have received below 15,000 dinars has begun today, and in four equal wars of four thousand dinars, all pensioners who have those benefits will receive it. The only check is being carried out for foreign pensioners to see if any amount of foreign pensions exceeds this amount, so in that case, those who are foreign pensioners will not get it quite safely, because then they are not in a difficult position. As far as tax laws are concerned, they weren't just changed at the rate. We tried to make things right. First, we changed and he is now before you the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. What are the most important newspapers in the process? We have now, and I have proposed this a long time ago, this law gives the IRS a mandate that it can control unregistered companies. It was absurd that the tax administration today only controls those who are registered and already pay some taxes, and it doesn't control those who don't pay anything. I'm not talking about those companies, which they have per employee who doesn't pay taxes and contributions, I'm talking about black people, and today there's, unfortunately, a lot of this unfair competition, there's also unregistered bakers and unregistered slaughterhouses and unregistered other activities, and it's pretty much, even become mass in some of the works. Our proposal, since there are two groups of people here, has those who are unregistered because they are unable to pay taxes because they have a hard time living, and there are those who do it to earn, to tax evasion, which are not difficult. That's why we decided to build here, in a way, a time-gradation in the application of these measures. By January 1, we won't be in control at all, and that's another three and a half months, these entrepreneurs, but I'm inviting them to register. If the flat-rate tax is 10%, then the tax rate for the taxpayers in the income tax has not changed and will remain 10%. If, as of January 1st, the tax police and the tax administration in the controls find companies that are not registered with any activity, they have the right to confiscate the goods completely, to assess what they found and to charge 20% of the tax on that tax base, therefore, twice as much as if someone volunteered to be in the legal system. Even then, when it happens for the first time, it will be possible that if within 45 days, the unregistered company registers and becomes a taxpayer, to return the goods to it, only for the first time. Next time we wouldn't have that kind of pity. We have to create equal conditions for all of us. So far, this obligation has had a market inspection that has only three, four hundred employees across Serbia, the Tax Administration, which about 7,000 employees, will certainly be able to do much better and in more detail to put it into order and we want to reduce that so-called. The black economy, because this belongs to the black economy if someone is completely unregistered and makes unfair competition. The second thing, I don't know for what reason some year ago, allegedly due to judicial reform, is the tax administration's ability to charge for a first-degree tax offense. This has been transferred to criminal courts, and today this system is completely watered down. Violent courts are slow to decide and there's nothing to do with it. If there's no possibility of the IRS charging criminal penalties, there's no discipline in the tax system. I've asked around, in all European countries, the tax administration charges criminal penalties if irregularities are found. So European reasons can't be why it was transferred to criminal courts. We are returning that measure, since the New Year's tax administration can again conduct a first-degree tax violation procedure. Also, we wanted to introduce not only discipline in the budget system, but also in the work of the Tax Administration and the Treasury. You know for a fact that many businessmen rightly complain and say why the IRS charges us 20% interest if we're one day late in VAT or other taxes, and when they're late, thinking about the state, they don't have any sanctions. It was a proposal from a businessman that we respected here. Since New Year's, we've been introducing pens for the state if it's late in returning VAT, at the same rate of tight interest as it is charged to businesses if they're late in paying taxes. We're going to make equal terms and, of course, it's not our intention to get into a situation to pay these fines now, but to get the VAT and other obligations back to the businessmen in time. So we're going to do discipline and this sector because right now it's really neat payouts and pensions, public debt and social benefits, mostly. This rest doesn't have a budget calendar. We also want to introduce a budget calendar when the state returns VAT to businesses and when it pays all other obligations to have discipline in the whole system. Also, because of the difficult economic situation, we decided to give the possibility for those who owe for the tax, to extend the tax debt due, from the current 12 to the maximum 24 months, and also to give a discount to those who voluntarily report that they are unable to settle some tax debt before its maturity. They'll pay interest on that 10% debt instead of 20%. If a person voluntarily declares a tax liability required for which a delay is required, or if a request for a deferral of the tax debt is submitted before its maturity, there will be double the rate to be charged, because the person who does so himself is obviously not able to do so for some reason. Also, we're going with some measures of relaxation for those who have a lower tax debt. Also, we want to modernise the tax administration. Today, unfortunately, the tax administration doesn't know cross-referencingly many data that every modern tax administration should know. Today, you citizens have to report income tax if you cross a censorship, not that the tax administration knows on the basis of a tax contribution and a profit on what it is, so that it just gives you a solution. Today, tax returns are being handed over in complicated paper form. We introduce the obligation that by 1 July 2014 at the latest all tax returns must go by electronic means only. So we're removing the papers from the traffic. They must, not be able to, but the sea from July 1st 2014 for all legal persons from those who have been taxed to others, and then we have a situation to reduce paperwork, we will reduce bureaucracy in the tax administration itself. I will do anything to change their behavior towards those who control themselves, to be kind in dealing with businessmen, of course, sharp in sanctioning those who violate the law, but kind in conduct. So they can't be arrogant. They must know that they too live off the incomes that the economy makes. Also, although there is no obligation to this day by law, we have introduced an obligation for all managers, directors of tax administrations and branches to be chosen by public competition. That wasn't the case until now, but the minister was setting them up. So this law introduces the obligation of choice. There are some 173 directors of different tax administrations and branches, a public competition, which will be called eight days after the adoption of this law and published in all media outlets, to make it more transparent. We also changed the law on value added tax. I must say, in addition to a number of criticisms seven, eight years ago, that law has not been changed since it was passed in 2005. It is one of the few laws that has not experienced changes in parliament, which is an important tax law, a pillar of every fiscal system. Of course, I'm not saying he was perfect, but those flaws he had were not numerous. I've watched through this time what it is that can be fixed and these changes are not trivial. We've changed some things, even technically, to improve the law itself on value added tax, because that law cannot be changed over and over again. It is a law that is systematic and that should last. As far as the rate is concerned, this amount of public debt and the budget deficit could not have avoided an increase in the overall rate from 18% to 20%, but therefore a lower rate to 8% was retained. Therefore, VAT has remained unchanged for basic life supplies, and it has been increased to wide-ranging goods. The effect of this increase will be around 35 billion dinars of higher revenues in the following year, accounting for slightly lower charges due to reduced consumption. I must say, given that I am at the same time a minister of finance and economy, I am absolutely aware of the fact that this is not a measure that suits the economy, but it was inevitable, because the public debt is huge and the deficit could not be reduced without it. I am aware that this can cause a decrease in consumption and that it can make business difficult for a part of the economy. But that's why we've defined ourselves not to go higher than this 2% just at a higher rate. However, we are introducing some reliefs, especially for small entrepreneurs. The biggest relief is to raise the price for mandatory entry into the VAT system from now on four million to eight million dinars. This also applies to registered agricultural holdings. So, if someone with a turnover of less than eight million dinars, they can depend on whether they're going to be de facto taxed or entering the VAT system. So those who have less than eight million dinars are not prevented. The lower limit is abolished. Everyone can be in the VAT system, and many who have lower turnover than eight million will be responsible for being in the VAT system because of vomiting if they are in the manufacturer's chain, but those who are engaged in the production of services, or who are engaged in service activities, may gossip about not entering the VAT system because they do not have a deduction of the previous tax. Also, there is an increase in the amount of money returning to farmers, so-called farmers. The VAT compensation is at 8%, and it was 5% so far, but we're changing the system that money has to be paid this time at the expense of the agricultural producer, whether it's a savings account or some other, because so far the biggest benefit of the current VAT system has been paid by traders, because the essential farmers didn't get that money. By insisting in the law that this must be paid directly to the manufacturer, or it will be used for farmers or traders will not be able to benefit from it. Therefore, it will either be used for those who are intended or will not be the cost of the budget in that vomit. Also, a new year's system is being introduced that small and medium-sized enterprises whose turnover is up to 50 million dinars per year, and today there are as many as 86% of all VAT debtors in that group, can choose if they want VAT to pay only when the goods are charged, not when they invoice it. It's a proposal from the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, which has been standing for a year, two days. This possibility was introduced by some European countries in mid-2010 for the first time, because until then it was not a practice and we used a model that is valid today, for example. in the UK or Slovenia. I must say that in writing this law I had very great help from Milica Bisic, who was the deputy minister of the government of Zoran Djindjic, deputy finance minister, and also helped me by Mr Simic, who was one of the most successful directors of the tax administration of Slovenia, who was an adviser to the tax system. So we used some of the solutions already used in Slovenia, let's say for VAT refund only when the goods are charged for small businesses. In all the countries that introduced this refers to entrepreneurs and smaller, medium-sized enterprises. So that's why we limited traffic to 50 million dinars. What did we put as a security system so there wouldn't be fraud? Three items that are very important. This will only be used by those companies that have been in the VAT system for at least a year. So it's not the ones who are just coming in right now, it's someone who's been registered as a VAT debtor for a year. Secondly, those who taught VAT applications in those years or in the previous year neatly every month, which means they had no intention of cheating on the state, because those who submit VAT applications and do not pay the tax are considered fair. Third, if within six months that goods are not charged, then VAT must be paid. So six months or 180 days are given as a period for companies to be able to pay VAT only when goods are charged, but if more than six months pass, then they have to pay taxes, because then there's a great chance that they actually want to avoid taxes. That's how we want to make it easier for small businesses to do business, but to avoid cheating on the state. It was also done in these laws that I was talking about, with which we took it in parallel to make the best of the laws. We also changed some technical details in the law itself. In contact with the accounting associations, they complained of a number of technical things, we, you'll see, have improved that area as well. For example, today is the deadline for submitting VAT applications 10 days after the end of the tax period. Businesses requested that it be 15 days after the tax period for those taxpayers for whom the tax period is a calendar month, these are larger enterprises, or 20 days after the end of the tax period for taxpayers who pay VAT three months. This way we also make life easier. Also, we have a change in VAT for builders and those who collect secondary raw materials. I'll set an example for the builders. From now on, when this law is passed, VAT will not be paid by contractors but by investors. If the investor is a contractor at the same time, he pays VAT. If the investor employs construction firms, as contractors, VAT pays the investor rather than contractors. Why did we bring it in? It's been in Austria for a long time. We think it's good for our situation too, because often investors hire a lot of subcontractors who don't even pay for construction work, and construction firms were obliged to pay in advance for VAT invoices and were then in double trouble. The state paid ahead of VAT, and investors did not receive money for what they did, and many companies even went bankrupt during this last crisis period. In this way, construction firms that perform works, which are not investors, will not pay VAT, but will do so by those who negotiate, means investors. It's similar to collecting secondary raw materials. It's called what's called. VAT return. There remains a refund on the purchase of the first apartment for VAT. We haven't changed that solution, but that's why we expanded it. This option is also given to the buyer of the first apartment, which he bought in accordance with social housing regulations. It was not settled in the current law and could be interpreted in duplicate, and this is how it is precise. Also, all products that were, or services at a lower tax rate, remained. We brought a promotion to the IT industry. Today, the IT sector cannot export software unless it hands over the disk, because data transfer via the Internet is not considered a service within the meaning of the VAT Act. We have corrected one such illogicality, and I think this solution will now allow the smooth export of software from Serbia, and in the coming period we intend to bring a whole series of measures to improve business in IT industry. Also, you know for a fact that there is a public debate that takes a long time around VAT on baby equipment, diapers, children's food and in conversation with parent associations we have come to the solution that it is not good to generalise VAT for baby milk or diapers, for the reason that we are convinced that it would benefit the traders themselves. They wouldn't feel it, they'd get the merchants on their side and take the money. That is why we have decided and I expect the Committee on Finance to make this amendment and refer to the Assembly, that baby equipment is being recovered from VAT, so that all parents whose monthly incomes are up to 80,000 dinars and whose value is less than 200,000 euros, where they would not have to bring into the tax administration proof of their assets, but the tax administration itself will know how much it is. I said we'd force, through this modernization system, the tax administration to modernise their information system. The only evidence that will have to be brought is the fiscal cut, the cut of the fiscal account and the confirmation of the parents' incomes -- so not households, but parents, which should be below 80,000 dinars in the pool. We also limited this amount to a period of two years and to 70,000 dinars, because it's so roughly calculated that VAT costs are on this equipment. This applies to baby milk, to baby strollers, to diapers, to that chair for feeding children, to spoons, and to all that is necessary for feeding children. We've passed a circle of users on purpose, not just on poor parents, because this includes one part of the middle class. These would be key tax laws that change. As you can see, the situation is difficult, but we are confident that with this package of measures, we will stop growth and budget deficits and public debt. I'm sure we'll do it. We are aware of the fact that this package of laws is not enough and that it is only the first package of laws. I have to say that you see that we haven't done this one-way, because we've listened in the past months to businessmen, citizens, workers, unions, and we've tried to balance this package, in a way that's easier to bear. It's clear that when the budget deficit is reduced it's not easy, but if it doesn't decrease, then the state comes in danger of going bankrupt, of not being able to pay any pensions or salaries. At that moment, no more questions are asked. These measures are necessary. In the draft budget for next year we will also consider changing the rate of profit tax, but we will consider it to be also moderate. I must say that at the VAT rate, Serbia will now be at a level, approximately, the average of Europe by 20%. Hungary has a 27% VAT rate, a group of countries such as Croatia, Denmark and Finland have 25%, and more than Serbia have countries such as Belgium, Lithuania, Greece and Poland. Below us are now 19% Germans, Turks, Macedonians, Cyprus, Swiss and Montenegrins. They have slightly lower VAT rates, but this is still not too high a VAT rate. So much for this opening statement. The government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed done its best to prevent Serbia's debt crisis in the first 45 days. Now I can say that after the adoption of these laws, there will certainly be no crisis. But in order to reduce the cost of the debt payments in the next period, we're going to have to go even more radically downsizing the public debt and some costs compared to the 4% we originally planned. The fiscal council that gave the projection that it takes to go to 3.5% is right and we will stick to their recommendation when making the budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1552	Thank you, Minister Dinkich. Do the committees want the word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mrs. Milice Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1553	I'm an informer of the environmental protection committee. During today's session, we discussed three laws that were on the agenda of our committee. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, the second is the draft law amending the Chemical Act and the third is the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund. Most of the votes were passed by the Committee by all three laws in principle, by what I must say, and I will say that later when I speak for my parliamentary group, that we have had some questions and that we will ask the Minister, or Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, to clarify these matters for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1554	Do any of the other reporters want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1555	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, esteemed fellow MPs, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group supports the draft amendments and additions to the Law, as well as the Bill on Budgets tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it believes that solutions are proposed, to the greatest extent, good and that any shortcomings can be addressed by amendments that I believe, based on its presentation, are ready to support, of course, if constructive proposals are involved. We have witnessed the previous days that these proposals that we will talk about have come to light, but we have also witnessed that this blanket has been gradually reduced, i.e. the criticism has been eroded. So when we draw a line to this session of the Assembly today, we can say that the DRI gave a positive assessment of all the proposals for fiscal consolidation submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We can say that even the IMF, and in particular the Fiscal Council, has been assessed as good all measures on the revenue side of the budget in terms of revenue increases, as well as measures relating to expenditure cuts. The only thing we seem to have left as a potential problem seems to be measures on the dispersal side and those measures that are mostly social character. As a party to the social democratic orientation, SDP has absolutely no choice but to support all social character measures aimed at facilitating the lives of the most vulnerable population groups. In that sense, referring to that famous Aristotle -- I love Plato, but I love the truth even more, I would say that regardless of how we support co-operation with the IMF and what we believe to be the conclusion of a new arrangement with the IMF is something that is extremely important for the credibility of the state. We cannot, not to say that it is still a little more important to worry about the standard of our citizens, especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. The proposed measures, especially those with the greatest effects that have just been praised by the IMF and the Fiscal Council, are most affected by the poorest categories of the population. Limiting public sector salary growth and limiting pensions, however necessary at the moment, is a measure that is very unpopular. On the other hand, we have an inevitable increase in VAT and excise rates, which represent the highest tax forms with significant effects on the revenue side of the budget. So these are the measures that are necessary to bring, but on the other hand, there is one problem with both measures, and the problem is that these measures are just hitting the poorest. Inflation will eat salary and pension growth, and higher VAT and excise duties will further limit their consumption. In a situation like this, we don't see that there was any dilemma for the government. So she had to resort to measures that would reduce pressure on the poorest. This was done by introducing thirteen pensions for the poorest pensioners, as well as various measures aimed at speeding up agricultural production, and I would dare even say the survival of farmers. I don't think I have to remind you what situation our farmers are in today that have faced two shocks this year. They had first problems with weather during the winter, and then recently faced, I'd say unremembered, with drought. What's important to say about these measures that we support, as I said, is that we think they should be temporary, so that they don't burden public finances in the long term, with the obvious problem of the poorest pensioners being dealt with permanently by system measures. As for incentives prepared for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, they are, in our opinion, justified, although they are, like some other measures that I was already talking about, a criticism of a part of the public. In that sense, I would like to remind you only some facts: more than 99% of all businesses in Serbia fall into the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. The sector generates two-thirds of employment and transport, one-third of gross domestic product and generates half of the exports of the Republic of Serbia. In recent years, this sector, under the influence of the global economic crisis, has seen very negative trends, i.e. the positive trends that characterized this sector to the global economic crisis, have turned and become negative. If we don't help something that is considered a future economic development engine of every country today, I really don't see how we can expect Serbia to have a better future. Therefore, the need for proposed measures of tax discharge, liberation and relief, as well as the subsidisation of loans to the corporate sector cannot be questioned at all, in our opinion. Because of the large number of legislative proposals that are on the agenda today, and not to take up too much time for MPs, and there is not enough, I will focus on the most important laws, and I believe that my fellow MPs, especially those from the opposition, will be more studioous to all individual laws. A few words on the amendment proposal for the Excise Act. These proposed amendments and additions were made in line with good tax practice and the need for harmonisation with EU directives. The most important changes in terms of increasing income and in terms of good practices and in terms of harmonisation and in terms of the introduction of order into this area and the reduction of space for manipulation relate to excise duties on oil derivatives and excise duties on cigarettes, so I will deal with the changes made in this regard, because I consider them to be the most significant. The increase in revenue from oil derivatives will be achieved by increasing excise duties on all types of fuel, except for unleaded fuel, which is in line with the EU's declared policy on the convergence of excise value to all types of fuel. I will tell you that these and next years are scheduled to increase excise duties in the EU to all other types of fuel, and that the excise duty on unleaded gasoline will remain the same over the years. Therefore, their idea is that these excise duties are the same, by changing the way of accounting, they are not accounted for in terms of quantity, but there is another system, but in any case, this measure is in line with the directives or EU policy. The other thing that I think is very important is the unification of diesel fuel and lignite oil into one category and all kinds of liquid oil gas in one category and by imposing an obligation to pay off excise duties in full and for one and for the other, which prevents manipulations that were very present in the previous period and I believe that you are all familiar with the manipulations that are the subject of what I'm saying. Of course, vomiting is possible, but certain categories that have been directed at exactly the same reliefs that have only been misspelled in the wrong way. There is again something that is the subject of criticism in one part of the public. In fact, it's about expanding the number of entities that are entitled to these reliefs. So far, it's only been the case with farmers and industry, now it's extended to transport. The criticisms that have dealt with this topic, or critics who have dealt with this topic, seem to have forgotten to mention the positive effects of this measure. I must tell you, although I believe that most MPs know this, that one of the most important elements, namely what is said in the economic language – the greatest weight in the formation of the total price increase or inflation, has exactly the price of fuel, and the transmission mechanism which increases the fuel price to the total inflation carried over by this increase in fuel prices is one of the very important link in this transmission mechanism, which is - transport. The increase in the transport price that would have occurred if this return had not been made would have affected me most of all the social categories that we have just tried to protect from these bill proposals, as prices would have increased to basic life supplies and would have increased the price of city public transport or any other transport within our country. As for the excise policy applied to cigarettes, it has also experienced some changes and those directed towards the introduction of order into this area because it seems to me that one very important thing has been ignored, which is the regulation of the obligation for importers or producers to sign and pay the difference in the excise duty on goods at that time. The measure plus the amendment that we have received, which we support, which says it applies from 1 January, instead of 1 July 2013, and the proposed increase in the minimum excise duty on cigarettes in January 2013 promises that the revenues based on excise duties on cigarettes could be further increased in the next period. The excise duty on cigarettes has been increased in absolute terms and is included in a parafiscal impose that is abolished so-called. Budgetary dinar. On the other hand, it's reduced so-called. a specific excise duty, i.e. ‘ad valorem excise,’ to be determined at a percentage amount. Both measures are in line with EU directives. This refers to this first measure of increasing the specific excise duty and the reduction rate of proportional excise duty is a very good measure, because many polls have shown that in countries where the "ad valorem of excise duty" is high the low price of cigarettes and very low revenues based on this excise. I don't need to explain to you that this is very bad for both the income and the expenditure side of the budget. For the revenue side of the budget as the amount of revenue is reduced based on this excise. The cost side of the budget is because low-priced cigarettes speed up smoking and thus spoils the health bulletin of the population, which affects the spending side of the budget. The SDPS parliamentary group would also have several objections to this bill, but these remarks refer more to a medium-term application of the excise policy measures. We believe, in the future, that more emphasis should be placed on excises on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, and less on increasing excise duties on oil derivatives. Namely, the minimum amount of excise duties on cigarettes at this time is still twice as low as prescribed in the EU and significantly lower than the minimum amount of excise duties on cigarettes in the countries in the environment, which makes cigarettes in Serbia too cheap, which we said has negative implications for the budget, but therefore opens up a space for the incriminating increase of this excise duty, which would bring us closer to the values in the region and the ones in the EU. On the other hand, the excise on the oil derivatives is, I'd say, too big. If our calculations were correct, and I believe they are, it is even higher today than in the EU, it will probably know better than the Minister of Energy, which will say that the excise duty should either be reduced to medium term, or slowed down its increase. If we apply this policy in the future, according to our estimates, this increase in excise duties on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages and a reduction in oil derivatives would have from neutral to positive effects on the budget. As far as VAT is concerned, the key change in this law is to increase the overall rate from 18% to 20%, which should bring significant effects on the revenue side of the budget, both current and medium-term. This is a measure that the SDPS likes, I believe as much as the citizens of Serbia, and that will say nothing. This term is an unfair tax form, much more affected by the poor groups of citizens than the rich. We would be far happier if the revenues in the budget were collected more on the basis of direct, fairer taxes, those taxes that affect the richer, or the wealth tax, or, if you will, income and property tax. However, these tax forms are, unfortunately, far more insecure than value added tax at this point. Therefore, such measures would certainly not have the effect of increasing VAT at the moment. So, the increase in VAT was at this point absolutely inevitability. In terms of what I said, about our future tax policy, that is, reforming the tax system, I would like to ask Minister Dinkic -- is he thinking in your ministry about introducing a more progressive rate of tax on the annual income of citizens, and is there any consideration about introducing a synthetic tax, which would cover all tax forms, which would practically be one type of wealth tax? In order not to make it look like we're criticising or just criticizing, although this, of course, has not been a criticism, but it has been a simple commentation on our current destiny, I would also like to say a few words about the positive effects of changing the Law on Changes and Supplements to the VAT Act. So it's very important that the lower VAT rate of 8% is left at the same level, which reduces the pressure precisely on endangered social categories, because basic life supplies are in this category. Also, I would refer again to something that has been criticised by the expert public, which is that some items should be left out of the 8% category, so let's say, since the EU directives say that computers do not belong to this category, by saying that these directives are not binding on Serbia, our view is that computers cannot possibly be transferred to a higher rate, because at this point Serbia, given the mere mere in the application of information-communication technologies and their importance for the further growth of Serbia's economy, I do not see how we can achieve good results in the future if we increase VAT on computers. The minister has already said that our VAT is still relatively competitive with the countries of the region and the EU, so I would not talk about it, but I would like to say something else that I think is very important, which is that citizens should understand that increasing the VAT rate is not a whim of this government, but is a measure applied by many other European countries. So I can tell you that the last few months of VAT has changed to several EU countries, and these countries are far richer than Serbia and have far fewer problems with the global economic crisis. One of these countries is Spain, which has problems with the global economic crisis, but some other countries, such as the Netherlands and Finland, certainly are examples of countries that are certainly far better financially than we are, yet they have changed the VAT, or they have increased it. So it's something that's trending today, and it's the most normal thing, so we have to adapt to it. As for the remaining measures, aimed at facilitating the administration of the VAT system, relaxing entrepreneurs by delaying payment of commitments and increasing VAT compensation for farmers, we also consider them to be good, by also having one remark or suggestion, however you wish, that this rate of deferral of payments for entrepreneurs be temporary while the crisis is going on, and that after that, it is considered to be abolished. I say, despite the fact that our parliamentary group does not dispute the inevitability of all procedures done both on the income and on the bulky side, we are still concerned that these measures are obviously going to have a certain impact on inflation, which is already getting pretty high. It is quite certain that this year's inflation target has been missed, and according to some latest announcements, inflation seems to be double-digit. In this context, it is no surprise if the NBS comes out with measures that are more restrictive of monetary policy, which, I'm afraid, could then reduce investment activity and partially undo some good measures, incentives, which are contained in these drafts of the law. In this regard, I expect that the good co-operation of the NBS and the competent ministry pre-arranged this development to the extent to which it is feasible. As far as income tax is concerned, these proposed changes will greatly increase budget revenues and I don't think these measures are good, they again don't hit the most socially vulnerable categories, because I believe that the most socially vulnerable ones don't collect income from interest and dividends or capital gains. Thus, that measure is certainly good. At the same time, it opens up room for another relief for farmers, and this is the continuation of good practice to abolish the tax on the catastrian income of farmers. I've had a few more words about the most important measures and their effects from other legal proposals, but since I can see that I've almost spent my time, and I don't want to keep you any longer, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1556	Thank you. The word is Mr. Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1557	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I intervene at the very beginning of this debate, because I think it is crucial that we maintain a fundamental seriousness during this debate. This is the most important law we will adopt, only in December will we adopt next year's budget that may be even more important. Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, of course, are a violation of dignity, because Mr. Bauer, in his inspired presentation, has spoken some incredible lies, starting with the fact that in the last few days the atmosphere has settled in public, and at one point he has even found that the Fiscal Council supports this proposal of rebalancing, that is, all the measures proposed by the Government. That's just not true. I am simply under the obligation to protect the dignity of this Parliament, of the MPs, and of the Fiscal Council which is an independent state body and cannot defend itself in this House alone. So, the Fiscal Council gave a very comprehensive report on all the measures the government is proposing and that Mr Dinkic has been explaining here for almost an hour. The report cannot be said to be positive. On the contrary, he is extremely negative. Some of his most important negative assessments of these measures today have also been presented by the Fiscal Council at a session of the Finance Committee. On the contrary, he is extremely negative, some of his most important negative assessments of these measures, today the Fiscal Council also presented at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Unfortunately, the Fiscal Council is unable to get an opportunity to publicly defend itself against the cameras, regardless of what the country's prime minister is causing a duel in front of the cameras of members of an independent body. But if he can already do so in his well-known arrogant manner, then it is good to at least prevent this House from doing such a thing and when you find yourself exposed to such obvious untruths to react, to warn the MP and to return him to some normal streams. That's why I'm intervened at the moment. This was a very faceless lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1558	Thank you. Mr. Bauer, on what grounds. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1559	I don't want to have the manners to answer and get involved in this chain of replicas, but I have to say more for the sake of the truth, I won't use the dictionary that was used when I was spoken of. So I must have been too inspired, which is why something I said was foreseen. I said, first of all, that the Fiscal Council supported the measures to increase revenue and expenditure reduction measures and they did. They criticised some other measures, which increased expenditures, but at the same time supported measures to reduce expenditure. So it's not true what you said. You were just interpreting how you were comfortable with what I said, or maybe I wasn't 100% accurate, because I didn't say this part of the other part. But definitely take it and read the Fiscal Council report I read, they supported the measures to increase revenue and supported expenditure reduction measures, and criticised some new measures that increased expenditures, which I was talking about defending them. So I certainly didn't lie faceless at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1560	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, come in. This ends with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1561	I'm going to quote a sentence from the Fiscal Council Report -- the government's first response to the alarming state in public finances, the budget rebalance is inappropriate. I don't understand Mr. Bauer, which means that some of the measures to increase income are basically good, but there's a coincidence that this money and more than that money that gets by increasing the VAT rate are going to be spent on the apart side with some other measures. So the deficit is higher than it was planned in the basic text of the 2012 budget. Then how can the measure be good? Not to get into what the Fiscal Council says about how this money is being spent, or at what kind of state costs are being used. You can't read one third of a sentence from a report that has 58 pages. You are, therefore, the only man these days in Serbia who has managed to claim that the Fiscal Council has positively assessed the government's measures. No one else did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1562	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1563	Well, Mr. Bauer asked me some questions, and I'd like to comment on what you just said, because I attended today's session of the Finance Committee, where he was. Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council, where they were members of the Fiscal Council, were also at the session. The truth is, Mr. Bauer is right, because of the 28 laws found in the assembly session, 27 received a positive assessment of the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council didn't give a positive assessment for budget rebalancing, that's true. Because all of these 27 laws, and that's very important, don't only have an effect this year. These are the laws that permanently enable fiscal consolidation, and the Rebalancing Act is the budget annex for this year and the fact that spending is this year, due to the fact that in the first five months has been spent enormously in the pre-election campaign and gone; and the fact is that some of the expenditures are not planned, and they have to be implemented, such as wages to the railways, the Resavica miners, such as compensations to farmers who are guaranteed; such as payments to those who are subject to social protection, people who have the lowest income, pensioners with payments of 15,000. So the total expenditure this year, and we're going to talk about it tomorrow, I guess that's tomorrow on the agenda, that's the rebalancing, are greater than fiscally desirable. But they're bigger not because of these, I'd say the necessary expenses for the citizens, but because there was an undosed spending in the election campaign. When these costs are collected for railers' salaries, for these things that I was talking about, and what was already spent in the first five months of the campaign, we get a really large amount of expenditure that couldn't be reduced, because it could have been a lower deficit only if we decided not to pay farmers even this drought fee; not to pay farmers 120 euros per hectare; not to pay the railway workers' wages in December; that we don't pay the unemployment fee for five months, because they only planned for seven; not to pay off our commitments to the "Fiita" that are planned by contract, but to tell people you've produced a car and like this, and so there's going to be a promotion these days and the start of sales around the world, the factory is there, we don't care, what it cost, we won't give that money, we wouldn't give that money, we wouldn't have to do it. That amount of expenditure really was criticised by the Fiscal Council, but that's all. They therefore commended the abolition of the parafiscal burdens contained in these 18 laws that I spoke of in detail. They praised all the revenue measures, literally all the revenue measures, with one single reserve for the ability to pay VAT only when the goods are charged, which is what Mr. Bauer is on, if we want to be honest, to suggest that it be a measure only during the crisis. That's what I heard and he just said it. They praised the Law on the Budgetary System, the introduction of order, the abolition of their own revenues from ministries, agencies and funds. They literally praised all the other laws. Who has the time, I think of you fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let the citizens of Serbia take a look at those 58 pages, and they will indeed see that. Criticism of rebalancing and commendation of everything else. Just like Mr. Bauer said. What is the fact that the situation is not easy, that even with this review of the rebalancing is right, but that's why I said the other day that this budget is not the new government's budget, it's an annex to the budget of the previous government, where one good part of the money has already been spent and it was impossible to fix it. You will all judge together on the new government's budget when we discuss the 2013 budget. Then there is no longer an excuse for what the previous finance minister, the previous prime minister, did, but then I answer for the budget, and the government for the complete policy. But these laws, which are praised by the fiscal council, and by the DRI, and there is Mr Bauer right, will bring consolidation of the Serbian state in the coming period. In a smaller volume by the end of this year, because of these expenditures that have been overrun in the first five months and because of some necessary expenditures that we have to give if we want to be a serious state, because we have to help the poor, we have to pay all the salaries to the public sector employees and all the benefits for the unemployed. But we're going to have a minor effect precisely because of that, but the full effect of all of this will be visible in the next year. I have made it perfectly clear and honestly clear to both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, as well as the Fiscal Council. Today whoever was from the MPs at the Finance Committee's meeting can confirm that. As for Mr. Bauer's initiative on future solutions to be made. We're fully aware that in 45 days we couldn't do the general work of the fiscal system, but we brought in the first set of measures that need to be consolidated. I'm sure we'll work on our property tax. We believe that it is inadequate in the part relating to the taxation of legal persons, because the accounting value of the company is used as a tax base, not a real one. In this way, cities and municipalities do not have full income from corporate property taxes and therefore many of them, even some abnormal companies, have charged some businesses. Instead of the company, the property tax should be the basic income of local self-government, but through a realistic assessment of the tax base for the legal person, so, first of all, on businesses and that reform we will work on. About income tax, we have to have a public debate here, synthetic income tax is something that is common European practice. One number of economists, a good number of economists stands for it, some others are against it. I'm willing to consider that possibility, to see what effect that would have, but that takes some time to work on it. I totally agree with you that you need to find a way in this crisis that the greatest burden of taxation is borne by those who really have money, those who are really wealthy, and that can be done in many ways. One we will apply is a cross-examination of the income of the assets in the previous period, namely the comparison that the value of the assets is much higher than the amount of income shown, whether the tax is paid on that. Not because of the witch hunt, but in those cases where someone's covered up the tax in the past, they charge taxes in the present, and it doesn't happen in the future. So the idea is that in such cases we have a tax base determination, a collection of the corresponding tax, and that's that. So, without any defilement of such men, but to introduce order and to make it a system for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1564	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, on what grounds? You set off a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I gave you my word, and then there was another replica. Let's finish that topic and move on now with the debate. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1565	According to the Rules of Procedure, I responded because Minister Dinkic injured Article 106. Rules of Procedure. It would be better for Mr Dinkic to have the Prime Minister next to you or the first Deputy Prime Minister. Tell Prime Minister Dacic...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1566	Mr. Jovanovic, let me tell you, article 106 has already been advertised. He can't do it twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1567	Excuse me, Madam Vice President. I've been here in Parliament for years. You don't think it's only possible to advertise a violation of Parliament's dignity, and then be forced to tolerate all subsequent abuses and injuries afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1568	Mr. Jovanovic, this Rules of Procedure has just...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1569	It was your party president who did what Mr. Bauer had done before, misrepresented the Fiscal Council Report.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1570	If it's wrong, we can find out later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1571	Where? Meet me for coffee, in front of the parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1572	We can also take the opinion of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1573	Don't do that. That's how you make your ruling coalition. You don't have to give me your word. Thank you very much. This isn't a normal atmosphere, but no problem, nothing controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1574	If you want to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1575	I don't want to solve anything with you later. I don't have anything personal with you to deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1576	I'm not with you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1577	Minister Dinkic misread the position of the Fiscal Council in the same way as the ruling coalition MP did. In response to a statement by the ruling coalition, which is incorrect, the MP responded to our parliamentary group. I reacted to the same inaccuracies of the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1578	Do you want a word as head of the parliamentary group, since you're right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1579	Yeah, I want to, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1580	Here you go. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1581	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the honourable ministers, first of all, I believe that it is not easy for you, Mr Dinkic, although I am sure that most people in this country somehow have no understanding of the problems you are in. I wish there were others next to you and those with whom you made the ruling coalition, because the key question is why is Serbia like it is today? Why did our country fail? Why, as you yourself said, the budget deficit has penetrated all historical boundaries, never been larger in our history? Why are we facing bankruptcy and why do you explain your budget rebalance with the message that the rebalancing is the way it is, but will not die? Mr Dinkic, this is the result of the wrong policy, which has been being conducted in this country for years. He was sentenced in advance to failure, regardless of well-meaning, any attempt at economic reform in Serbia that has not been followed and politically. For years, we've been deluding about economic policy. In the last few years, it's easier for us because there are certain independent institutions that give us the right. Remember our controversy during last year about the Law on fiscal decentralisation, or the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government. We're absolutely into decentralisation, and that's when I told you, but I warned you that the model you insisted on transfers all resources to local self-government, leaving the state without funds but with the obligations it has to local self-government. The fiscal council calculated that it cost us 400m euros and the IMF said so. The Fiscal Council report, which we have ahead of us, states that local self-government increased subsidies 40% this year, 30% of the cost of buying different goods, and 12% of the profits. These are the direct consequences of the law that you have passed, which we have opposed. We can talk today about Mirko Cvetkovic, but at least our parliamentary group will never convince you that this model of the prime minister is responsible for the chaos in which Serbia is today. Half of your government has kept quiet for four years and supported each other in the most senseless laws that have been passed. Who in this House in 2008 said that the crisis is a chance for us? Is that you or me, your ruling coalition or my opposition? Who said the crisis would get around us, so now we're facing chaos? When you made the government, we told you that we wish you success and that we were ready to help you. Today we don't stick our finger in your eye while you're raising VAT, but we remind you of what you were doing at the time when you were looking for an increase in VAT, and you were someone who was preparing for the opposition. That's what you and your secretary of state have criticised, which criticises our budget rebalancing not on this economic plan but on the lack of political reforms, interprets as a trick that we are trying to transfer responsibility from the previous government to the current government. We weren't in the past or in the present, you were in both. It's nonsense, Mr. Dinkic. The only way out of this crisis is if we agree on what each of us has to do. You're denying us the possibility of that agreement. That's why she was predetermined to the failure of every initiative, even if it was correct. Of course we will support the guillotine of regulations, but is there anyone in your ministry who can answer the simple question of how many parafiscal duties are in Serbia? You've covered 10-15%. One of the data we came across is information that there are over 700 of them. Let's put that thing in that space where it has to be. Who brought these measures, even though they were wrong, even though they caused damage? How does that work? It is a very important way to respond to the country's economic problems at this time. What a chance we have in a society that is falling apart in misery, in every kind of misery, in political, moral, resulting from economic. Serbia has long begun to think with its stomach, which is why everything that we have condemned happened, and what Serbia has agreed to because it is absolutely dependent on the state. If we're talking about your laws then, first of all, we're talking about the state's relationship to citizens' money. Please answer me - how is it possible to increase through budget rebalancing costs by 15%? How is that possible? Who's responsible for that? Shall we share fate? If we increase the value added tax, I told you not to criticize you for increasing it, and we would increase it. They wouldn't call for other countries' experience. Clearly, it's the only way to secure any such resources and inflows of more money in a situation where the state is without any money. But you yourself mentioned the consequences. The decline in consumption, the decline in living standards, that very drop in production. Is there an estimate of how many people in Serbia will lose their jobs for this? Why is this increase in value added tax not followed by a reduction in the burden on earnings? We know what Serbia has turned into today anyway. In begging employees who ask employers to pay them, because they don't care what happens to the fund that's already failed. Your generation and my generation, she's not hoping to retire from the PIO fund. Neither your generation nor my generation is treated by spending the money of the Health Insurance Fund. You know that very well. Why are we lying to each other? We have to pay for the 13th pension. We're not going to the IMF. There's no freezing of wages and pensions, and then we index growth by 2% in a country where inflation is 10%, so everything that we're supposed to do happens. That's what people in their wallet will see, tomorrow. He'll lose his trust, if there's even a little left in this country, in this Parliament, in us. It doesn't matter if you're the authorities or the opposition tomorrow, and I'm the opposition today, tomorrow's power. It's a deal. Where's the Prime Minister? The microphone exists in the Assembly, or he can only sing with a microphone. Where is your ruling coalition, other ministers? They left you here in the deleted space to find out for yourself how you know and can. What's the matter with these laws? What about local self-government? What's going to happen to the 4,500km of roads that we've passed on to the maintenance of those roads, passed on to local self-government, and we left it without its original incomes. It's these company fees. What will happen to the central budget, since you quote and mention data that practically confirm that you are not a lonely finance minister in the measures you propose, is already something less or more necessary in response to every other European state. I'm asking you two questions. Tell me a European country that has not reached the agreement we are looking for in Serbia in 2008, authorities and opposition, pensioners and young generations, those who work and those who are jobless, about how the country will get out of the crisis it is in. Serbia is the only one, the only country. Second question. Tell me one European country in which income tax is local? This is already becoming less or more professional debates. It has nothing to do with the people following our conversation. Next year, we need to find five billion euros to serve our debt, plus or minus, but the upper limit is five billion. Am I right? By the end of the year, a billion and 700 million. You want to lower the deficit to 3.5%. Which is absolutely necessary. We agree with that. In order to establish a balance in 2016 or try to have a surplus. Before we knew that we were light, and we all knew that the government was lying to us, we had an estimate that the 10-year average of gross social product growth would be between 2 and 3.5%, at the EU growth level. This practically means that there are no new jobs in Serbia, because it takes much more dynamic GDP growth to get people out of work to find their jobs. Does that mean that we who stand on our feet are still doing something else? That we've been sentenced to carry our whole lives on our backs those who lost that right because of the irresponsible state policy. That is why political reforms are needed. Not only the deception that one visit to Brussels is enough to guarantee our European future, but the kind of internal and political and all other relations in society that will be in the role of the country's development. We have suggested that you return this budget rebalance and talk as it has never been discussed before in Serbia, never, because you will not bring this rebalance and the laws that you change to make the employers, or the employees, or to feed those who are hungry today, or to restore dignity to those who are humiliated in Serbia. I'm not saying you don't want to, but this won't give you that result. What's what we need? Order in the country. Just a little bit. You're talking about subsidized interest. I agree in every normal country that liquidity, core liquidity, is a key problem for our economy. But it has its reasons. In incompetence, ineffectiveness of state institutions, in the wrong regulations. We are in charge today to subsidise interest tomorrow, because money in Serbia is expensive, and yesterday you amended the Law on the election of the governor of the NBS, to bring down the credit rating of the country, and to make that money more expensive than it was until that moment. That's why interest is so high in Serbia. Because the risk is high. What's affecting that risk? Well, you and I both know the truth. Can one of us here in parliament say what this country wants, what its goal is, how it thinks of it and what time it is. Together we criticised in the last phase of the privatisation of NIS. That's what we did together. Nice, we raise VAT, raise excise duties on liquid oil and diesel, i.e. on lye oil. But what about the president of the state, who at the same time complains to the director of NIS, that the fuel in Serbia is very expensive. And who makes him expensive? The government, which he has formed, which I am nowhere in Europe, burdens the price of oil derivatives. How much is the mining rent in Serbia? Because they can buy, for change, politicians in this country, in Serbia do what is unimaginable in their Russia. 3% is a mine rent, $800 million is oil gas extracted in this country and paid $25 million for it. Can we have an average of the mining rent that is characteristic of this region? To be a decent country, to appreciate private capital? Not that we're cheating on them. We send a president who begs the president of Russia for money for two and a half hours, and here we bring directly laws that are contrary to the interests of the company that Russia cares about very much. What about liquid oil gas and oil derivatives? How many private pumps will occur in Serbia because of the obvious abuses that are afforded in such a way? What's going to be the consequence of that? You're talking about helping the construction industry, through the fact that the investor will pay VAT, not more contractors. Change a law that's disastrous and we've been asking you for four years. He's nowhere in the world. There are no cranes in Belgrade. We're talking about agriculture, you realize there's no efficient agro-industry complex, there's no effective agriculture in a country where 40% of people live in a country with an average possession of three hectares. We want to develop, and we run a campaign against the business world. Is there a businessman in Serbia who is not slandered, who is not marked as a thief, at least one. The Prime Minister made us his business advice. Who's sitting on the council? Seriously people are sitting, bank presidents are sitting, bank executives. The prime minister talks to them at a meeting, and then accuses them of Serbia's collapse when he leaves the meeting. Did they clear that up between themselves? It's this confusion and chaos that's predicated to failure, and some proper measures. We have to change politics. If such a pace is to be lived, in 100 years Serbia will not be at the level it was at 20 years ago. And what else should happen to respect some initiatives, no matter what they come from this "against side"? Reduce the payload, at least at the cost of a higher VAT. Leave the pulsism and demagogy. Set the order to the Pension Fund. It can't be owned by one party or mine or any other. You solve the company's restructuring problem, the people in it die. Hundreds of thousands of people work in companies that don't exist, but no one can tell them that. Finish your privatisation. You used to fight for it. What are we going to do with a country where 50% of people are illiterate? How does this country think it exists in the 21st century? I'm talking about "IT" technology. We have to tell people the truth. You've reduced everything to percentages and quotes of taxis and parafiscal charges that you've abolished. It is not controversial, but it is not an answer to what is Serbia's fundamental need today. Do we want modern Serbia, democratically, with strong institutions? Then you must respect those institutions. Your government doesn't do that. As the MP of our parliamentary group said -- the prime minister is challenging the duel of the President of the Fiscal Council. Well, that president can go home, he doesn't have to go to a duel with the prime minister, but the problem stays ahead. We can't vote for budget rebalancing. We can ask you to pull him back. Who supports that? Trade unions don't support it, employers don't support it. You mentioned the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. They're criticizing your actions. It's a good thing you've introduced the possibility of paying the VAT at the charge of the service, but you yourself said that almost 90% of our economy in that area is up to 50 million dinars. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm done. What will be the effects of that in three, four or six months? They must immediately pay for their repromatter, and someone will tell them - now the currency is six months and not 90 days. The state must immediately pay its dues. That's the answer to one of the biggest problems of the economy. If the state doesn't owe and the economy will be more efficient and will have to follow that example.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1582	Thank you. Since I am full of a list of speakers, I would like to ask you to delete the list so that Minister Dinkic can apply for a word, so you can re-apply after that. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1583	Thank you. I have to quote Article 106 again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1584	He can't do Article 106. We've heard it twice today. I mean, we heard him once, and I didn't let him do it the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1585	He didn't stick to the subject at all. What is this mention of Serbia's president in the context of this agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1586	Name another member, if any, and I'll give you my word. The word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1587	For some things you're right, but saying such criticism after only 45 days of forming a government, if you expected structural reforms that haven't been conducted in 45 days, then you really overestimate the possibilities of any man individually. I'm not talking about our government right now. There are some things where you're wrong, first of all, the law of funding local self-government. Namely, when I said, and the Fiscal Council confirmed that this year's budget deficit is over 7% of GDP, we agree, the largest in Serbia's history, that includes the country and the Republic and the province and all cities and municipalities of local self-government. The transfer of double the income from salary tax to the republic did not result in a deficit, but was a redistribution of income. The 40 billion that was transferred last year to this municipal law, it didn't go outside Serbia, it didn't go to space or abroad. It went to Loznica, Šapcu, Kragujevac, other cities in Serbia, Sombor and others. The move did not increase the country's consolidated deficit. He reduced the republic's revenues, but therefore increased local incomes. It's not true either, and you've been contradicted, I have to say, that no new jurisdiction has been given to people from local self-government, because if you think it's easy to keep a new 4.5km of roads that are without any public discussion and debates transferred to management in February of this year, then you underestimate it. So local self-government only received a simple decision from the Serbian Roads company 4.5km of former regional roads that have been cut short to maintain locally. That's one thing. It's something else you said exactly. It's not a bad law. I'm here against what you're saying and we're not changing it. It will remain local self-government and in the future 80% of the salary tax, but it is true that local self-government, as well as the republic, were in a pre-election campaign in the first five months and it is true that more was spent than should be spent everywhere, in all municipalities. It was a local election. That should be called a real name. It was not the law on the financing of local self-government, it was the elections that literally depended on who was in power in which the municipality spent much more in the first five months than is normal and normal. That's where those figures were put out by the Fiscal Council, and they're right. It's been spent a lot more in the republic. That's why the budget deficit exploded in the first five months. Then after the election was over, the government made one decision that acted on me unseriously, which is that nothing is paid. After a huge spending of the first five months, all payments were suspended, except for salaries, pensions, social contributions and public debt. Everything else that was agreed on, signed, was not paid for two months and then shown in two months fictitiously that there was no budget deficit, and in fact, if any obligations were taken over, sooner or later it would be due. Based on court rulings for not paying off certain things from the previous period, two billion dinars are increasing the cost of the state in this rebalancing. So, regarding local self-government, absolute cities and municipalities should retain 80% of the salary tax, the City of Belgrade 70%, as foreseen by law, but with the current law on the budgetary system, we will introduce employment control in the administration in general in local self-government, payout control based on this excessive employment, and we will check for what subsidies are used for. Local self-government should decide for themselves on capital investments, on all other elements of development, but on employment and around wages, local self-governments must be subject to control and we have now foreseen amendments to the Budgetary System Act. But definitely local self-government should retain more resources, have independence at their disposal, especially when it comes to capital investments. How are we going to solve that question? That's what you asked me to do. At first, you said they had too much money, and then you said, "That's four miles of roads they got for maintenance." So, they got some jurisdiction. We talked to a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. The transfer to local self-government this year is about 33 billion and will be by this formula that the law contains increased to about 35.5 billion dinars next year. We will add to one special member of the Budget Law an item of about five billion to maintain the dedicated new roads that have received local self-governments to maintain a mile [2 km] square that way, or per km, or as much as anyone who has received for maintenance will have additional revenues. About parafiscal duties, if you look at the study and "Naleda" and "Ju-es-ej-di-ja", have been done for a long time, they have constantly increased that number of parafiscal duties that they have found to exist and the final figure is 205 parafiscal charges of a total of 371 one fees that exist, because 250 have the character of taxes, so they are called parafiscal impositions, the other are different price commissions and those of which I have talked about. Of that 205, we've abolished 138. That's the truth. You want the truth, it's the truth. It was abolished by 138 out of 205, which means two-thirds, approximately. Is there any more room to go? Yeah. Absolutely, because that means a direct decommissioning of labour costs. You're saying, why aren't there reduced contributions to profits, because it would certainly relieve employers, or make more production possible? Because we felt that a greater VAT increase than these current 20% would have negative effects, because any percentage of the new VAT increase would have been relatively reduced by revenues based on that basis, because many could not monitor and pay, and disproportionate consumption would have fallen. The effect, for example, of what the Fiscal Council proposed to raise VAT from 18% to 22%, while at the same time reducing profits, could be the next. If VAT was increased to another 2% to 22%, the effect of tax cuts and salary contributions would be from the current 64 dinars to about 54 dinars. An effect that isn't negligible, but it wouldn't be dramatic. We felt that at the moment when we have a recession in Serbia, because the Serbian economy will have a decline in this year between 0.5% and 1%, that any larger VAT increase than this that is necessary from these 2% would have no good effects and this is about the strategy. So should income taxes be reduced in the next period? Yeah. My answer is yes. It's just a matter of timing, or when. We can't do that right now, because we couldn't stop the deficit and stop the public debt. It is generally a good proposal, the proposal is made by all businessmen, the government supports the proposal, but it was not possible to implement it today without some negative consequences. Are we going to try to do this during the term of office? Yeah. It's definitely the most serious thing we need to do for the economy, that other than abolishing parafiscal burdens, which was the first step that has the same effect as reducing contributions, because these are some cost of production that won't be paid now. So 10 billion dinars of some craftsman, entrepreneurs of small businesses won't pay. The middle one will pay less, even some big one. So if 300,000 entrepreneurs who employ half a million people and small businesses won't pay 10 billion dinars from October 1st, it'll make them some space so they can pay some profit they couldn't, or make a little investment. Is that enough? It's not enough, but it's a much more serious step than the former finance ministry has done in the past four or five years. What our government did for the first 45 days. The other thing is, do we have chaos in public finances? We do, but we won't have it anymore. Regardless of the fact that it's only seven days since the formation of the new government, that the American rating agencies have reduced the credit rating of the country, both Fitch and Standard and Purs by one step down, something happened that no one expected, and the result is exactly the fiscal consolidation programme that the government announced and is now implementing. It's the price of Serbia's debt on the secondary market. It is a parameter that does not depend on any political party in Serbia, but depends on investors' confidence in a country. At the beginning of this year on Serbian euro bonds traded on the secondary market, the debt contribution was 7.7% annually. In late July when the new government was formed, it was about 7%. Today is 5.8% today – 5.8% and bonds are sold at 7.25% interest, to remind you, last, this spring. This can measure success in fiscal policy-making. It is an international arbitration – the market. I can't do it, you can't do it, no party can do it, no one can do it except those who watch Serbia. The fact is, after 45 days, we have a debt drop from 7% to 5.8%, which means we're less risky because we're making less money on our debt. Only 5.8% compared to 7% of what was 45 days ago. This may not be the most important thing for citizens, but I'm telling you it's something that's a fairly measured effect on this first wave of fiscal consolidation program. I am convinced that when we arrive in the month, month and a half of the day here at the Assembly again with a budget proposal for next year and a deficit of only 3.5%, we will have a further reduction in those costs. They are important, because it depends on how much we pay for the interest we talked about. If we lower the price of our issue of the euro bond, then it is quite clear that we will have to borrow less on the domestic market, and there are the interest most expensive. On the domestic market, the most expensive interest has always been and will be. It's our strategy to reduce borrowing on the domestic market. One more thing, you asked where the other ministers were? They were with me when the debate started. With the prime minister, I have jointly promoted the fiscal consolidation programme, because this is not the finance ministry programme, this is the government programme of the Republic of Serbia. So we promoted him together, we talked to the businessmen together, we'll keep working together with the unions. There is a significant change in the way this government works compared to the previous one. I'm talking because I know what it was like in the last one. You may not be interested in MPs, but you may be interested in citizens. Much greater discipline, much better coordination, and what is very important, is much more effective in implementing measures. In a situation where you found the need, and it waited for us at the end of July, that by the end of this year to pay wages and pensions we must find somewhere, as much as it was, two billion euros, then it was, now it's as much as you say, first, it wasn't a simple job, and secondly, I think what President Nikolic did at a meeting with Putin is important and good for Serbia. Why? Because the talks provided a billion dollars to cover Serbia's budget deficit, in addition to those 800m dollars for the reconstruction of the railway, at interest which is 2.9% a year, unlike the euro-bond interest rate, which was 7.25% and 2.9% is double below 7.25% even when the six-month-long libor was included, the interest total was 3.5%. That's twice as cheap. If such interest was received from Americans, I would say – thank you, it's twice as cheap. It wasn't won. It's now won by the Russian Federation. We have favourable loans, though, from the World Bank and the European Investment Bank and the bi-ar-di, also from China, and from Azerbaijan for this highway from Ljiga to Cačka, because there are interest rates three percent maximum per year. We have to call things, as you say, a real name. It has been useful and every meeting with a great statesman outside Serbia is beneficial. Serbia must co-operate with all -- and with the EU, where there have been several of our ministers, including the first vice-president of the government you mentioned, or the vice-president for European integration. They were in Germany for the first 45 days, but there were meetings in Moscow, meetings in other countries. Serbia must co-operate with everyone. It's the only way to go. Our goal is that we don't have to ask for money to fill the budget in the next period. Now the situation is such that it is impossible to survive without it. Is that begging for money? It's not. Simply, it is an aid that is helping Serbian citizens. The fact is, and it's true that money pays and part of pensions. Is that good? It's not good. It's not good to pay pensions from a loan, but it's a fact. A fact that goes back years and we want to stop. The fact that we are here now in front of you with a set of these laws says that the government is ready to reduce the drastic budget deficit. I didn't come before you to defend a set of the finance ministry's laws, they're 12 out of 28. All other laws are the inter-resor laws of different ministries, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior, has the Ministry of Health, all of them together, so the government has completely cut these parafiscal duties. When you talk about subsidizing interest. We have one fact, there was an absolute mistrust of banks, which work here with foreign capital, in the previous leadership of the finance ministry and the previous governor, because a billion and a half euros were poured out of the country for the first six months. It didn't get into the ground, it went out of the country. Never did that, follow the further developments, until once, six years ago, I completed the term of office of the finance minister and will never happen during the term of office of this government. This was the result of mistrust in the loose government, the loose Ministry of Finance and the governor who was not independent. That's true. During the government from 2004 to 2006, whatever we were talking about, the state had a budget surplus and the public debt was 30% of gross domestic product. He's twice as big now. We have a 7% deficit. So, the point is that the chaos in which Serbia is located does not want to continue to be tolerated and will no longer be. We're introducing order. The alternative to chaos is the order. Change of the law in the budget system, change of tax laws and tax administration. You might wish the government wasn't unique and homogeneous and that we were doing the same thing as she did before, but it's not. It's different. It's different. Is that how it's gonna go on? We'll see about that together. I believe so, but we'll see. Are the reforms that are necessary to society that you mentioned in the previous period? No, they're not. Who didn't execute them? Did I try to enforce the guillotine regulations two years ago? Everything the government has adopted. Not implemented in practice one-third of that. Why wasn't it implemented? Because there was no political will for those who did most, and that should have been done. No reform has been carried out in the tax administration, which she should have. You mentioned the Law on Planning and Construction, here's the minister who suggested it. It is the worst law in the system. Not in my opinion. Let me tell you something: do you understand the building? No, I don't. I really don't understand the building, but according to the World Bank report, we're fifth from all the countries in the world at the speed of obtaining building permits. So when you say it needs to be fully reformed, I can only tell you that you're 100% right. Why didn't the previous government do it? That's a question for them. Yeah, it's our responsibility to do it in the future and not that far. Our decision is that after this cut of parafiscal intrusion, the next thing is to cut bureaucratic procedures and regulations from the fields of urbanism, construction, catastra and all other things. We can't do it ourselves, you're welcome, if you want to help us. If you want to criticize, you're welcome, but if you want to help. We will call again on the institutions that followed it in the previous period, such as USAID, but also some domestic NGOs. We'll invite the businessmen to tell us what to do. What we've done right now isn't the result of someone's imagination, especially mine. This is what we've been listening to businessmen, who for some months, some years, have been saying that these things should be done and we're doing what the economy has been looking for. Have we implemented everything the economy has been looking for? We're not even close. Things are just about to happen, but it's only 45 or 50 days before the government works. We are aware of the need for reform. Are we aware of the need for a deal? Of course we are. That's why the prime minister called both unions and employers. That's why I talked to the artisans, so the big exporters. We'll continue those conversations. It's only 45 days. We're aware of the fact that we don't know enough, that businessmen know better what to do from the economy than people in the administration know. We want to hear, we want to learn, we want to fix things. We have unity for that. If you ask me, is the Serbia's mine rent adequate? It's not. I agree with you. Three percent is small. The average in the environment is 10%. We need to think about an increase in the mine's rent. I couldn't agree more with you. As for subsidized loans, some criticized it when rows were made in front of banks, because demand is much higher than anyone expected. Why? It's a tough situation. People want to refinance existing expensive loans. There aren't many new liquidity loans. It's mostly 2/3 of the funding of existing expensive loans, but that's why we're helping people get through this difficult situation. In any case, our government is also open to criticism, and for good suggestions and all that comes from these parliamentary benches and from the ranks of citizens, businesses, we will accept. Really, in 45 days, could more have been done? He can always do more. Have we done far more than the previous set in these areas? We did. Do you need more? It takes a lot more than that. That's what we'll do, if you help us with that, it'll be easier for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1588	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1589	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I think it is clear now to everyone, and to those who are watching this session and those who are in the hall, that this has turned into something that is not appropriate for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or for the country of Serbia. So, of the three hours we've been discussing, Minister Dinkic spoke for over two hours. Fidel Castro, one of the longest speeches in the history of the political system, spoke in the UN for four hours and 27 minutes in 1960. Today Mr. Dinkic will break this record. (President: Mr. Veselinovic, you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. ) Articles 103, 106 and 107. So the session began at 15.00 hours by announcing the chairman that it is good that the people will be able to hear what is being said here today. Today only Mr. Dinkic speaks of everything and everything, just not about the subject of the agenda. A man who can't say in 15-20 minutes what the subject of the agenda is and why he's here today, he's talking for two hours. We'll talk tonight after midnight. Let's say I'm the first from the DS parliamentary group on the agenda to speak, I'm the 20th on the list, and I'll speak after midnight if Mr Dinkic continues like this. This isn't an accident. Mr Dinkic is due tonight to take a picture for the media, to be heard by the people, to justify that he is raising from 18% to 20% of VAT, which some populist measures are trying to save the reputation of this government, which is apparently not working, and he is there to obstruct the work. This violates the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and these MPs should not agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1590	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Let me remind you of article 96. Rules of Procedure of Article 1(1): "The applicant for the act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of proposing acts, which shall receive the word when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the presentation. "Mr. Tomic, re-apply. Please, since it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1591	Now I'm going to tell you what's going on. Articles 103 and 107. There's a mix-up about comments here. Now we have to sit all night and everyone can talk about the injury when it comes to Article 106. There's only one detail here. So, Article 106, one MP can advertise to the speaker's speech, the MP can advertise Article 106. That's no problem at all. I don't know why you took my word. Please let me tell you about the injury of these two members. I have to say, it's unnecessary here and it's obvious that the opposition here, using this budget rebalance, is trying to convey in every way the story that this is the child of this coalition. When a 15% growth figure is mentioned, it avoids the fact that there is growth at all levels throughout the year and that these three months will not be a significant growth of earnings. Secondly, the president of the state has been mentioned in a peorative sense, as if he were going somewhere to pray and kneel. The president of the state has been elected and is working under the Constitution on what his powers are, which means he is concerned about the social standard, so he asked Serbian Director-General to find opportunities for reduction and went on an official visit to the president of the state with which we have excellent relations, which is Russia. Unnecessarily and inconclusive is the mention of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, that he's some kind of cowboy. Neither man has abused anyone, nor has he commented on anyone. He commented on the position of the Fiscal Council. In the end, I'm a member of the Finance Committee and I attended all the meetings where the people who carry the Fiscal Council were. When they are familiar with the facts, with the number of facts the government now has, they have significantly reduced their tones and have become very cooperative when it comes to this proposal. We're all aware of the fact that this is someone else's budget and that we need these three months to lower it, but, above all, on the social factor and on what the previous government left, that we're trying to make it right by the end of the year, so that we don't get into a situation where the state actually has a bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1592	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1593	Injury of the Rules of Procedure because this is a very serious matter. You have injured Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure. So, you want to establish a rule that is possible during one working day, and in the next stage, probably throughout the whole session, that only once the article 106 is advertised. Rules of Procedure. It's absolutely against the Rules of Procedure. There have been all kinds of legal practices here in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but this has never been the case so far. Mr Tomic is absolutely right, therefore, that ban on re-commitment of Article 106 applies only to one life event, as we would say, not to the entire course of the debate. You may have tried to be cynical or funny, but I think it can make an awkward precedent, and we've had very negative experiences. By the time I got back, Mr. Tomic, you opened up that relationship story with Russia. There was also a mention of a mine rental. Let's then hear from Mr. Dinkic, who talks so much today, and what fate will be given in the mining agreement yesterday, or demanded by Mr. Bačević, Minister of Mining, that the Russian side in the oil-gas arrangement, as well as after 1 January 2013, retain the privileged status or pay the three-percent mining rent instead of 7%, what is the rate according to our law. You just announced that maybe the optimal rate would be about 10%. This is a very significant income, including local self-government. We are talking about fiscal policy here, tax policy, so let's get that question straight -- will "Gasprom" pay a three or 7% mine rent since 1 January 2013 as per the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1594	Just to remind you that you were talking about a member of the 106st Injury of the Rules of Procedure and after that he immediately took Mr. Jovanovic's word and talked about the same member. So, it was working... (Bojan Djuric, from the place: No, Dinkic spoke. All right. The word has Aleksandar Jugovic. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from town: Replica! ) Replica, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1595	This is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1596	You're not in the system. Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1597	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You know how, Mr. Dinkic, that's why I'm asking you to discuss these serious issues in a much more serious way. Your impression may be the ruling coalition of your right, but it's very far from the real picture. Forty-five days or four days? The moment the Prime Minister spoke here, he defined the intentions of all of you behind that government. There's no vision in that speech, and there's too much populism and demagogy. I don't expect you to solve the foreign debt issue of this country in 45 days, which has crossed 10% of GDP when the debt of our economy is added, but I expect you to make it very clear that the end of this kind of economic governance has come. I was very clear when I was talking about your law. It was not 400m euros from the republic's budget to local budgets that affected the growth of deficits and debt, but a hole in the republican budget that was filled with loans, as the transfer of money did not follow and the transfer of commitments and it was known that it would eventually end up in some pre-election campaign. If we talk about Serbia's need to co-operate with everyone, we agree, but I cannot agree with the ambitions of your ruling coalition for Serbia to be in every place, because that sort of thing will never work for anyone and neither will we. I don't have much understanding for the President of the Republic, nor am I impressed by the fact that he owed us 3.5% of the interest in dollars. How much is that in euros? A lot more. Right? Because the euro is falling from the dollar. But that man came to power with a promise to bring investors with 100 billion dollars. Let's once put an end to that kind of behavior. It is true that the country is in a major crisis, I repeat, and that is the price of the wrong policy. We don't talk about that wrong policy. When the question of the personal comfort of those in power is raised, let's forget about the fus note, the people we left at the barricades, and we repeat the mistakes of the '90s, when we solved the problems without discussing the cause. Where's the next crisis, if we kept the same model of behavior? Of course this is where the Prime Minister belongs, because he's the one next to you who needs to answer those questions that you can't possibly answer. If relationships are great, who's he criminalizing? If DS robbed Serbia, what was he doing as police minister in that period? If he couldn't do his job, then why didn't he say so? (President: Please, time, Mr. Jovanovic. ) I repeat once again, we wish you success and we cannot be selfish in this business, but we also do not think that we tolerate obvious weaknesses which are already very clearly described by both you and your government as a ruling coalition that will fail at the expense of the whole society. That's why we have to fight you politically, politely and with arguments, which is not a characteristic of those who are in power today, not while they're in power, not while they're in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1598	Next reported is Mr. Ilic. Mr. Ilichu, as head of the parliamentary group? Here you go. I'm sorry, since all my lines were written here, I didn't know. Excuse me, please, Mr. Ilic. Mr. Dulic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1599	I think you're all witnesses that I've been mentioned. Of course, the subject was the Law on Planning and Construction and I as one of the authors. Mr. Dinkic, you've been having serious problems with the truth lately. I am very sorry that you forgot that this law on planning and construction has been voted on, among other things, by your vote in the Government, and by the votes of your MPs in the Assembly. It was then amended and completed after the debate we just had with the SRP, when we tried to speed up and shorten procedures, because we were all faced with the fact that it does not work in some local self-government and somewhere and how well it works. So then you were one of the people who made sure that the Planning Act worked when it came to the projects you were doing, which means that the law was good and that those who did it were not good. I can't wait to see what you're going to change in the Planning and Construction Act. We are all aware that he has introduced serious order into the area of urbanism, because today 100 % of local self-government has built a spatial plan, and over 80% of local self-government is in the final stages to build urban plans, which is the first time in history that has happened precisely thanks to this law. It also happened for the first time in history that Serbia was given a catastrophe of immovableity. Some countries received it during the 18th and 19th centuries, thanks to the laws that regulated it. The only problem that today in the implementation of the Law on Planning and Construction is the problem at the level of local self-government, defending and final instance, that is your ministry. Let me also tell you a secret, since you said you didn't understand. Just drive your people to the Ministry of Finance to handle second-degree procedures when it comes to conversion and you're going to let thousands of acres of land into circulation at the moment. So, you have a problem, Mr. Dinkich. Please, just one thing. When you take to appreciate people by work, remember how until just a few months ago you worked with these people, and about your nonsense and lies that 80% of the funds of the Environment Fund were spent in advertising, I will naturally turn to you when it comes to me and hopefully let us at least let you know what we have to say during the evening, not during the morning next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1600	Thank you. Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1601	These aren't my grades, because I'm not an expert on construction, nor on catastra, these are World Bank estimates, these are business estimates. The World Bank has ranked Serbia for five meats since the last one, therefore, among the worst, at the speed of issuing building permits and on all land-related things. As for the catastra, I don't know if he's been established now, but I know he's been waiting months and years for him to betray what people need. Why is that, I don't know it, because I don't understand geodesy, I don't understand it in that area, but the fact is that it certainly can and must be much faster. So it doesn't matter that there's just an institution, it's important that it works. To work in the interest of people who ask for some favors from her. Here, for months, we've been waiting for a piece of paper in one city to start another process in another city. So when the government can't get that, let alone how is that for ordinary citizens? What's a matter of conversion. It's true that I'm running the Ministry of Finance for 45 days now, but I'm not sure the IRS should be doing this job at all. The question is not to enforce the law, but to ask whether there should be any conversion as a concept and thus, and that some tax administration in Serbia in 170 branches does so. So here's the question of the procedure whether it's necessary, not the conduct of that procedure. It's a big question if it's even supposed to be in the law. Again, I'm sure I won't be running that inter-resor group, because I'm not the one who understands the building. But as someone who understands what economic development is, I will expect from all those who are looking, which are people from the economy, to make procedures that are simple and applicable. It's true that in some self-government procedures were faster, but you know how? By calling them on the phone to do something, not what the system is. We need to have a system to make it work everywhere. If we have extra procedures and if it doesn't exist in other countries, let's end it. The cost of waste of time is 100% higher than the potential loss of land conversion revenue. So it's a waste of time because there's no building, because there's no building. That's what I'm talking about as an economist.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1602	Mr. Dulic, replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1603	Now I'm answering and I won't answer again, really because today is a different topic, but all of this you have as an objection especially to conversion, you should have brought it out when you and we were sitting together in the government and voted for that law. You know very well, Mr. Dinkic, that we've tried to break sometimes a very hard-core spine with those administrations that aren't effective enough to make all the procedures work, so investors can come. We've done this together, almost in all the factories and all the investments that we've done as the previous government. For example, we did this on the Old Mountain, on all your projects, and you know very well that it was never a problem. It wasn't a problem, not because the law wasn't right, it was not a problem because good people moved to one place and tried to enforce the law in the right way. You're talking here today about changing the law because some administrations aren't able to implement it. I think we should educate, learn the administration, and that's what's the key problem. As far as the immovableity cadastra is concerned, it is also now in your hands, the second degree of all procedures, i.e. the procedures that are being conducted when it comes to property-legal relations is with you and you can very quickly cancel the conversion. Conversion is no longer a procedural problem. The problem is, there's no one else who can sign it all the way, and it's all transferred to your ministry. I advise you before you qualify for the work of a man, or the quality of a law, don't listen to the experts of the World Bank. Yeah, it's a bad situation. We didn't run away from it, but the bad situation isn't due to the work of one ministry or one government. The bad situation is due to the fact that for decades back, the area of urbanism was abandoned, that it wasn't taken care of, and that when we started reforming, we knew it would take years and years to educate the administration and to establish procedures that were fast. Now we're on our way to do it. You are on a good path to do so, just don't change at all the law that, I say, with certain changes can be and how effective and especially don't qualify for the work of the people you've worked well with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1604	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ilich. Can I ask you to just finish Mr. Ilic, because next time I'm taking his word? Excuse me, Mr. Ilic. You have your word on the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1605	I think it's confusing since the beginning of today's work day, so from 15.00 hours. First of all, she's preparing herself for sessions where we got the material late. The merger of so many dots that we don't know whether we're talking about measures related to rebalancing or budget rebalancing itself. The holding of a session by the Vice-President of Parliament, which was all but not in line with the Rules of Procedure until the rotation in which individual heads of the parliamentary groups lose the right to speak in accordance with the order set out in advance, which is that the smaller parliamentary group has the right to speak rather than the larger parliamentary group, in this case the RS. At the beginning of the session, I asked, why are the ministers invited to attend this very important, perhaps most important session of parliament this year? The answer of Parliament's president was that he would come. The answer of Parliament's president was that it was only a agenda, and I'll see what it was like at one point, and the rest will see, so that's why it was not clear enough for me as an explanation why ministers, or more than half of the ministers, are not present at today's session, which they were invited to attend. That is why, since the minister's responsibility is certainly the greatest at this moment, with the responsibility of all MPs who do their job clearly in the right way, the minister's responsibility would require that they now sit in parliament and follow the discussion, suggestions, objections, everything the opposition says, but also what the position says. Every political party before the elections tells that it has the best experts, that it has the best personnel. We are in a very bad situation and this is not the consequence caused by this government, this is the consequence of the 1990s and the continuation of inadequate policy management after 2000, following the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, so a policy that did not want to be dealt with with with by all the anomalies left in the 1990s. Many then thought after 2000 that public enterprises had sheltered party personnel, we had political parties that had no support in the people, had no infrastructure built, but as a result, they gained a large share of the spoils and then developed their network by hiring their personnel in public enterprises. Some practice has been created in Serbia to set up our own obstacles, and then if by any chance we skip those obstacles is required in some way by the public, by other political actors to talk with enthusiasm about this great success that we have managed to beat our nonsense. I can't be thrilled, I can admit that it's been spilled for many years and that we are now in a position to impose all those imposed by the previous government, or by half of this government on the back of Serbian citizens, we should now take off and say that we are happy and that we have done a great job. No, I don't. The problem is, it's never been systematically approached by any of the problems. We are now talking about how we're going to end the fiscal cash registers, all hailing, welcoming the Fiscal Council, but the question is why are fiscal cash registers introduced? If someone said it was the need of another time, then I wonder why that half of the government, which was an integral part of the previous government, did not speak of the need to abolish the fiscal registers. We have only just learned from certain parties of the current government, which ran from previous to this government, that Serbia is in a catastrophic situation. Why have the truth about the disastrous economic situation not been heard by Serbian citizens in the campaign? Why haven't they heard from you before? Because political mathematics said that if we wanted to preserve the coalition idyll then we would have to keep things quiet. In this silence, and in compromises, we have come into the situation to praise certain measures that took a long, long time before, and which the previous government had to do, such as the freezing of salaries in the public sector, such as short-term tax reform, such as proposals for legislation with fiscal impact, the abolition of 138 taxis, the release of small entrepreneurs of fiscal cash registers, as well as the establishment of profits in the public sector and the introduction of fiscal discipline. However, regardless of all these good measures, there was still no will to preserve the possibility that Serbian citizens would in one way or another benefit political parties, whether it was the Law on transfer of funds to local self-government, or some other laws. We are in a situation that there is now simply no power in Serbia that can say – that is enough. Regardless of all the proposed measures he has good, and which he praised, here I am going to say, he did not evaluate the ugly Fiscal Council. But the question arises, what about fiscal decentralisation laws? This law produces public debt. We were at the time saying that Serbia cannot decentralised the system of free Sixer, it cannot be decentralised by statistical regions, it cannot be decentralised by bringing it before a assembly of such laws. It can be decentralised by changing the Constitution, with the strong will to solve problems in Serbia systematically, to allow people in local self-government to be able to manage their problems, rather than abuse the benefits afforded them by the law. I just got a message from the Babušnica people. I don't know if any of you have been to Babusnica recently. The baboon's blown up. The babusnica has no way, but therefore members of the municipal council, nine of them, have a salary of 40,000 dinars, and meet once every three months. Therefore, the directors of public enterprises, public institutions, have paid over 100,000 dinars. Until we systematically resolve all these things, we cannot expect Serbia's economic recovery either. Now we're pulling the IMF sleeve, Russia, if we're going to get 1.7 billion euros. Also, negative tones feel that without a system they share or will share subsidies in the future for agriculture. I heard a member of the government say that the fires have affected certain parts of Serbia, so through subsidies, we'll somehow replace it. Fires are another thing, insurance of peasant houses is a third thing, so we can't compensate for all those failures and non-stimulating policies towards the village, by giving the peasant eight or how many billions in the short term to cover his expenses. We need to turn to the village in the right way. I am a witness like all Serbian citizens that the campaign most says that the engine of Serbia's economic, economic and biological recovery should be a village. I couldn't agree more. However, in the previous government you saw subsidies given to foreign companies, there is nothing wrong with that. Subsidies have been granted, say, "Gorenja" in Zajecar, almost 10,000 per job, and a farmer, or one agricultural land, could not afford a loan. Imagine if 10,000 euros were to be a loan to a farm owner. It's not one job, it's a whole family. All measures, whether it be a restriction of fiscal policy, whether it be fiscal norms, whether it be laws with fiscal impact from the aspect of the necessary adjustment of public finances, i.e. The cuts in deficits and the reductions in debt will prove insufficient. That's what the IMF and the Fiscal Council and the professional public think. However, there is Minister Dinkic right. It was an extremely small deadline for full insight into public finances, and that is an excuse for not going deeply with reforms. All these reforms are fine, on one condition, what if someone answers us with the losing companies, what about the overindebted, what about those people who are employed in the public sector? Also, we believe that the increase in VAT from 18 to 20% is short-term. Nobody answered me, I asked the previous government a few times, the media wrote about it, I wish someone from this government, here's the finance minister's answer, is it true what the media is writing, that tycoons owe me on the basis of taxes and contributions and other liabilities to the state of 5.5 billion euros? The increase in VAT from 18% to 20% can be a short-term measure if we lead a responsible social policy and a responsible policy towards justice and justice. Not exactly the same criminal and tax rate can be applied to a tycoon, so to a man who has a fantastic wealth, as well as to a man who has average incomes, or who is poor. So, if we were to tax the property of the tycoon, especially the one that wasn't brought into production, we could cut backs from poor people's backs and from the backs of the producers that are squirming in debt. Another question is being raised - how is such a imbalance between the quality of working conditions in the private and public sectors? Today a young, educated man is demoted. Its only place of opportunity for progress is in public company employment. Even though his salary is lower than in the private sector, he can progress more freely in a public enterprise, he can go to competitions, seminars, and have mentors in a public company. In private companies, they just count for seconds. De facto, unions don't exist. I pray because of young, educated people, I pray for all those who are Serbia's future, who are not ideologically scarves, who do not bear all the consequences of the 1990s or the last years of compromise, over-complication of the political scene, throwing one political party from the left to the right, compromises every possible species with those who did evil in the previous period, so those who are unburdened, who think exactly the same way as their peers in the EU's metropolis, ask them to deal with this problem in particular. It is very important that neither the Fiscal Council nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia took into account in the future the part of the commitment of the state to the Restitution Act. So, with the best intention, I believe the Fiscal Council, I believe the IMF, I trust the professional public, I believe, and everyone can read macroeconomic analyses and trends, I trust people who are in the profession, to continue on this course and try in the next period, for this you will have the assistance of the SPO in advice and in positive criticism, to get Serbia out of economic downturn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1606	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1607	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, has been reading for 15 minutes Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic's list of parafiscal taxis that had to be paid by citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises so far. That was hard to listen to, and imagine how hard it was for people to pay, to waste time going around offices and filling out all kinds of forms. It is a very good measure, as Mr Dinkic announced, two-thirds of it has been abolished, and there is room for it to continue to be arranged. Indeed, in this regard, we need to make sure that we are simply attractive to our domestic businessmen, including foreign businesses, that this procedure for those who want to attract and create new values and be as simple as possible. That's what the state's all about. However, this has never happened before, and I believe that this is the announcement of a good policy that needs to be continued. The Bogata Serbia movement supports such policy and such orientation. Unlike what's called discharging the economy, I'm going to talk a little bit about the burden. I'm ignorant, and I'm not interested in this very congregation procedure and I failed to do it in time, to submit an amendment to Article 15. Law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax. As you know, that's what Minister Dinkic said a little bit, in Article 23, paragraph 1 instead of percentage 18, puts a percentage of 20. I approached Minister Dinkic for a little while to tell him what kind of way it is to go out with one proposal, and here I am now in front of you MPs. I suggest that the value added tax is now raised by one percent with this correction and that this percentage is recorded on a special account and that it serves exclusively for the granting of favourable loans to the owners and users of agricultural land that buy pumps, engines, pipes and other equipment. It is not this drought in 2012, which we will remember, the reason I'm saying this, that I was saying to the late Zoran Djindjic, and he accepted that we, like Greece, who is similar, then there was no VAT, but a value added tax, introduced to every invoice, everyone, and consumers, citizens and farmers, are paying one percent that was used for these purposes. The result is that Greece today is able to defend around 30 per cent to 40 per cent, and they have had droughts like us, and we will have direct damage from the drought in 2012 of about two billion euros. I suggest that, in this way, one financial tax obligation for all citizens to start thinking about water and that, as in old civilizations, it begins, and today it exists, forms, forms and develops, lives a cult of water, because as much water as it does, so much life. It's one proposal that's not mine, it's not original, but I've long since learned about it, and I don't think there's any reason why smart and acceptable solutions, which in other countries have yielded apparently good results, and are accepted with us. I am also saying this as president of the National Agricultural Council, which in that document, which I hope will come out in late November or early December and before this assembly, with the idea that this country must use its natural conditions, which is the energy of the sun, water, fertile land, to become what we want, a highly productive country of wealthy, employed people, in other words, to be the garden of Europe. I would also ask Minister Dinkic and your MPs to support an idea like this. It is, in the long run, the beginning of a new relationship with agrarian, with agriculture and with those natural benefits that we have. Not every year will be as dry as this one. This is extreme and will be remembered, as I remember drying from 1950, but we can use the water, which is a correction of St. Elijah who did not let the rain cloud achieve high and stable production and be a major food exporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1608	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to begin by saying that we are adopting budget rebalances, hopefully during this week and a set of accompanying laws. It is quite clear already after these discussions, that this rebalancing is an exorbitant solution, that it represents only one summary of the work of the previous government and that practically the epilogue is the final picture we see today completely clear. What do we see in the rebalancing and what do we see as an assessment of the government's work? We see that the cash register is empty and not only is it empty, it's not the scariest, but there are a lot of obligations that have been hidden in some way, hidden under the carpet, which must now be regulated. Except for tax laws that monitor budget rebalances and their list itself is impressive. It's impressive to me when I was listening to the minister read the fees and fees that were lifted. I agree with Mr Trnavčević, it is truly amazing what we had in our tax system, and imagine the torment of all those people who had to comply with these laws, to pay for these obligations, completely pointless, nadaradic names and no order or purpose whatsoever. Thank God the day has come and the time has come for someone to start taking public finances seriously and setting them up. As I see the concept of these laws, they're simply directed above all else to repair the state of the domestic economy. All of what we had the opportunity to listen to as observations, years ago, especially intensely previous months, what small, medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen, business associations, employers' unions, trade unions, large numbers of their key remarks, the requirement is practically respected through these laws. Not only that, it seems to me that a set of laws has never been passed in this assembly that has such a positive effect on a large number of economic operators and citizens. Someone remarked there was no public debate, formal. I believe and claim that there have been public debates and it has been going on for years. For years, representatives of the economy have pointed to shortcomings, bureaucratic procedures, parafiscal burdens. On this occasion, a good part of these duties will be eliminated. The objections of NAED, and the permanent conferences of cities, craftsmen, and not only that, almost all political parties here, and mine, by passing these laws, have in some way realised a good part of the electoral promises that have come down and that these parafiscal burdens are lifted, to reduce bureaucratic procedures, to correct the status of VAT small and medium-sized enterprises. Citizens can see maybe one banal thing that has personally irritated me, and I believe all those car owners, when a man simply doesn't know what to do with those huge receipts, and there are 15 of them. He doesn't know when, how to fill them and make sure he forgets one of them, so they bring him back from a counter where there are already people waiting for order and there's unnecessary anxiety. I hope that from October 1st, we will solve this in a completely different way, that one payment will be enough for all these formalities. What was actually happening this year, and you could hear it from the minister, but I want to personally underline why such a rebalancing occurred, which is not satisfied either by the creator of the rebalancing, the minister or the government, and the objections of the fiscal council to its size. We just had a public expenditure explosion in the budget for the first five months. After that, some of the payments from the budgets that were required to be abolished were not actually made during the IMF's stay and after the elections to artificially reduce the deficit, and now it's all on account. In this rebalancing they had to be put in, of course, the commitments that were made, which were not settled on the basis of the subsidy payment and on the basis of the wages of the Resavica railways, the unemployment benefits are therefore in place. However, all these laws that change bring a completely different picture of public finances and are actually the basis for stability, first of all, the mid-term. We will already feel the real effects of all these laws next year, in terms of reducing budget deficits, which is also a key goal and I am absolutely sure that we will have a halved deficit compared to this year, that it will not exceed three and a half percent, we will have the opportunity to see it when we draw up the 2013 budget. Many of these solutions have waited a long time, but here was the opportunity for one package of laws to be passed and to say, suddenly it has such good effects. Today we also had the opportunity to see that, which is paradoxically little, some of whom the MPs were more nervous than usual, rather than vice versa, that the representatives of the government are nervous because they defend a large number of laws. There was anxiety among the MPs, maybe it's a good sign. I think the government is completely safe and confident about what it's doing right now, and it feels like it's in the atmosphere. The question of credibility, the creators of all the laws, we have the opportunity to listen to it in the media these days. I want to remind you of a few things that are actually very simple facts. The creator of the large number of laws we have today is Mladjan Dinkic, of course at the head of his team at the Ministry of Finance and I sincerely congratulate them on this occasion because I am aware of how much work has been invested to ensure all these amendments to the law. People worked day and night, believe me, I had a chance to visit the Ministry of Finance a couple of times from morning till late into the night to work on making these laws. It's for all praise. Mr. Mladjan Dinkic as finance minister, many challenge him, you can love him, you don't like him, whether you recognize him or not, maybe he's not the biggest economic expert in this country, but I assure you, and I think you know it and the public in Serbia that at this point in Serbia, the only one who is willing to take on such a huge responsibility, to do such a big job on such short notice is he, along with his team. It really should have had the guts, had the courage to take over this state of public finances and to prepare one such large package of laws within a month-and-a-half days, which will consolidate public finances over the longer term. After all, if I have already mentioned the facts, it is also important to recall the facts because of those who dispute credibility both the government and the finance ministry and the minister himself. Here, Mr. Popovic is looking at me. He remembers well from the time we were together in the government. For the first and only time in Serbia's history, a surplus was recorded in the 2006 budget. The head of the finance ministry was then Mr Dinkic. That same year, he was named Minister of Finance in the world that year. I'm not saying this to brag about it. Indeed, these are facts that all of us, and above all for the citizens of Serbia, are guaranteed that these measures are good, correct and that the government knows what it is doing. That atmosphere feels even here in parliament. It's completely different from that atmosphere we had in the past months and years and it feels like unity. I am absolutely sure that these things we have had the opportunity to see and hear today and these laws that change will be consistently implemented and that indeed a great number of citizens and businesses will feel the positive effects of these laws. I have to be open and say, there are no positive effects here. These laws apply to both the income and the expenditure side. Unfortunately, there was a need for an increase in value added tax by 2%, but the good news again is that it remained 8% lower, and key life supplies and what is most needed for citizens. That's why he shouldn't pick it up. It is good that small and medium-sized enterprises are privileged in some way when paying VAT. He'll pay for it after the invoices have been charged. It was a really constant request, given the crisis in which Serbia is located and the high degree of indifference, and that's good. A censorship has been raised for entering the VAT system. Presumptions have been made through amendments to the law that we are counting more efficiently with the black economy. Many agencies have been abolished, foreign exchange inspectorate, gambling administration and a number of others, which I believe will contribute more effectively to the work, above all to the government and the sector in the ministry itself. In the end, I also want to say that I hope, together with all of you, that this is the last year when we will have such a high record budget deficit, that from next year we will be able to have a much easier and more sustainable situation in public finances, that these measures will help, along with those that are just coming, to relax the economy and that these people who are actually funding all of us, this economy that is kind of devastated, a little bit to help it recover to be more efficient in the future. As I'm saying this, I'm thinking of something I've been thinking about. Many compare our economy to the milk cow. Usually when businessmen complain, they mention that the state somehow milks them. If that's the case, we're through this rebalancing and through this whole discussion are practically faced with whether we're going to make a decision to slaughter that cow, to make one feast and end it, or we're going to try to heal it, feed it, help it to give more milk in the future. I think it's quite clear that the economy needs to be helped, and that's why I like this set of laws the fact that almost all the objections we've had to hear from the economy are respected. I hope this doesn't end. I expect that when the next laws are passed, not only in the area of finance and economy, but also in other laws, that all other ministries and governments in general will have even more hearing about what makes the economy more difficult and that the laws that will be passed will be in terms of facilitating the economy, repairing the business environment, in which businesses operate, that we will not deter investors, that we will pass such laws as already exist and show results in more developed countries than Serbia today. In the end, I also want to say that I'm absolutely sure that next year we're going to solve the problem of this big deficit, that we're going to reduce it to 3.5%, that we're going to bring a whole series of laws that are going to go in this same direction. I want to repeat once again that the RAS parliamentary group will support a set of these laws, as well as the rebalancing itself during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1610	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1611	Mr. President, the presidency, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we're going to talk a little bit more about rebalancing tomorrow, and today we're going to concentrate on this set of financial laws. Of course, public debt will be close to 60% at the end of the year, budget deficit by 6.75%. Interests that reach the end of the year are at 66 billion dinars, and by estimates, only for next year's interest will we need 99 billion. We received information from Mr. Minister that the plan for next year is to reduce the budget deficit to 3.5%. That would be remarkable, but it's a very optimistic statement. It takes a lot to do, especially now that the 2013 budget is being prepared. It probably also takes courage, because there will be dealing with other ministries, political parties. We will see, but Serbia definitely needs large cuts for next year and a 3.5% deficit should indeed be a priority. It's the only way we won't be burdening the next generation. Of course, we can present this set of laws as emergency measures to put out fires in the financial system and that is the introduction to budget rebalances. This is the beginning, hopefully, of a large number of system laws, which should follow by the end of the year. This should be the basis for the financial consolidation of the Serbian budget, Serbian finances, but on a longer or longer term. I think you have to put it to yourself as a priority, Mr. Minister, and the entire government. We can no longer look at the year after year, but only one middle period, and that should be four, five years, and if it's in the medium and long term, I think there's a potential for the budget to be balanced over a few years. As far as these tax laws are concerned, the tax policies in question, all the countries in the EU changed tax laws at the time of the economic crisis. They've always had the principle of dissipating the economy and dissipating the citizens. But the key goal was once again to be new jobs and economic development. They've always thought about developing a domestic economy. Of course, the incentive to create new jobs is a good measure, but what I recommend is to consider in the 2013 budget is also an attempt to find the possibility of subsidies to preserve existing jobs. Because today in Serbia, it is not only a challenge to create a new job, it is a much bigger challenge for our economy to preserve existing jobs and I think that all forces of the future government should be directed towards this task. Why is the deficit reduction to 3.5% important? Because today, I mentioned at the beginning, only on interest this year needs 66 billion, and next year 93 billion. It's just proof that these short-term borrowings on our market are the most expensive and therefore these interest rates are growing exponentially. Debts, I'll come back a little later, which is now made with the Russian Federation of billions of dollars with interest of 2.9% are long-term borrowings and all long-term borrowings that exist today in the budget unburden these generations. These are loans for ten, 20 years with a large grace period and they allow intensive economic development. All countries were in debt during the economic crisis, but mostly they were in charge of not filling the gap in the budget, but exclusively for the development of domestic economy, their own economy. This principle that no credit is expensive if it is invested in domestic economy, and that any overpriced if invested in consumption, should be the motto of any subsequent borrowing. Of course, I'll go back to VAT. The VAT increase has been extorted. Serbia had room for that increase. I think it's still there today with this 2% increase, but I'm going to say that what has to be done parallelly over the next three to six months is also a reduction in the tax burdens on labour. So taxes and salary contributions must be reduced. Businesses need to reduce this by a minimum of 20% to 30% in order to have enough resources to accelerate their own liquidity. Only an increase in VAT without this can have a short-term effect and will have it, but it is necessary to make every possible effort to, within a short period of time, say, up to six months, reduce and impose taxes on work. The goal should continue to be a large-scale tax reform within the next year, which would in some ways change, or in some ways reduce, or improve the structure of the Serbian economy to make production cheaper. Today, unfortunately, in Serbia, only four hundred thousand workers, I will repeat, only four hundred thousand workers work directly in production. They stayed either in services or in the public sector. We need to change the structure of the Serbian economy and it is up to you, on this government, to make a system foundation for this change in structure within a year or two. Production must be cheaper in Serbia. We will also reduce the number of employees by service activities if small and medium-sized enterprises do not work and if large business systems do not work, because services are always directly related to production. We all know that one job in the manufacturing sector comes from five to ten jobs in service. That is why stimulating the manufacturing sector, especially the export part, is one of the key measures that the government should apply in the next period. It is good that VAT payments were introduced for part of the company with a turnover of less than 50 million dinars, as a temporary measure. Let me just say that the DSS here in this assembly in 2009 also proposed this measure, but it was not accepted and we are glad that today it was accepted. It is a good thing that this shift was made in the construction sector, that the investor pays VAT and that the subcontractors are free of it. It is good that there is an increased basis for entering the VAT system from four to eight million dinars and it is determined that it can be delayed at any time to pay VAT per charge, and if they want to, they can pay it immediately. Again I say it's only part of the measure. Of course, we can't evaluate the quality of these measures after two months of this government's work, because they're being extorted. Mr. Minister, what I'm saying is that you're going to have a big job in the next two months to prepare the budget and all the laws that should come in November here in the Assembly and that will be a real indicator of the plans of this government and the economic policy that we're talking about. As for excise duties, the projected revenue increase will bring about 0.25% of gross domestic product annually to the budget. We at the DSS believe that you may have been able to avoid the increase of these excise duties on liquid oil gas, because, besides being greener and cleaner, it is being used by layers of citizens who are not the richest and more and more citizens use it as fuel. Think about the liquid oil gas. We'll give the amendment to isolate it. We think it's kind of a blow to the standard, and for Serbia's environmentals it's good. It's not going to bring a big problem to the budget. As far as the cab goes, it's a good side. For the first time, these fees have been defined as the prices of services provided by the State. Of course, it's good to cut parafiscal charges. But in this, Mr. Minister, order must be introduced, and in the next period it is your task to define a tax law that would really have to regulate this matter completely. As for its own revenues, or the introduction of revenue into the central budget, it is good to do so for all agencies. We were afraid because we didn't have the information immediately whether it was for higher education institutions, theatres and museums. We've been given an explanation that this doesn't apply to higher education institutions. I must say that in the last few days, I have received a lot of calls from professors, dean from Belgrade University, from other universities, because in this difficult economic situation when capable people in higher education institutions in Serbia, and we have many of them, manage to organise their own projects, to collect them, which is also a big problem, we think it would be a big mistake to take these own revenues into account, especially considering the scientific potential that these projects bring to Serbia. It also applies to theatres and museums, because what they get from these own revenues is not so easy for them to put back into the budget. That is why it is a good thing that indirect users are excluded from this decision. In the next period we expect legal proposals, you're here less than two months, but now you have half a year ahead of you, which would start domestic production. The domestic economy is full of budgets. Liquidity is a key problem for the domestic economy, and this measure that was taken a month ago about the possibility of taking a loan at 18 months in commercial banks with a grace period of six months and with payments in the next 12 months is good, but Mr. Minister, it does not solve the essential problem of the domestic economy. It is necessary to find the possibility of medium- and long-term lending within the next half-year. The economy needs loans on a five to 10-year basis with a grace period of at least two years. What is very important, there must be a way through the guarantee fund to give more lax guarantees, that companies are looking for more loose guarantees, and the guarantee fund should take some part of the risk on itself. Today in the world, guarantee funds are part of the risk. Sometimes it loses 10 to 15%, and sometimes up to 30% of what they guarantee, but it speeds up the healthiest part of the economy. Why a two-year grace period? Because the next two years will be very difficult. We have to cut the first year deficit to 3.5%, and then the next year to 1.5% to 2%. So in these two years, when we are not expecting GDP growth, businesses should have this grace period that would give them the opportunity to concentrate on their own projects. It's a good thing the government turned slowly to the Russian Federation. It was also done by Cyprus, which is the EU's chairman. Cyprus received 2.5 billion euros in credit, 5 billion euros in talks on obtaining. So a small Cyprus with 7.5 billion euros took a loan from the Russian Federation even though it is the EU chairman, because these loans are really the most favourable today, they are the best interest, and most importantly they are not burdened today, and they will be burdened later when it is invested in the economy and when the economy starts, then they will burden the state, but then the economy will have the opportunity to return after two or three years of work, i.e. to pay taxes and contribute, these loans. As for foreign direct investment, laws must be made to speed up the arrival of foreign investors. I think it is important to say that the information technologies that you mentioned are vital to Serbia's future. We have extraordinary electrical engineering engineers, machinery, especially those dealing with IT. If today a Microsoft exports 7m euros from Serbia with 100 young IT experts, no one is more than 30 years old, why don't we export not seven over 4-5 years, but 700m euros with 10,000 young IT experts, because Serbia really has them. Young men and girls who finish electrical engineering, some engineering sciences are much easier to find work abroad than some from other professions, and we can be proud of that. It would be best if we created an IT network here where foreign companies would come. Think about eliminating all taxes, about the most possible subsidies for the IT sector, because the IT sector that comes from abroad here will employ our best personnel. The estimated increase in the tax rate on interest income and dividends is 10 per cent to 15% is correct and will bring an additional 6 billion dinars in 2013. Again, a far-reaching reform of the Serbian financial sector is needed to start Serbian production. Finally, we're going to talk about rebalancing tomorrow, we need to move on, we need to go into Serbia's new industrialization, and what I want to say is that the DSS's relationship to this government will be the way this government has to deal with the state. We are a state-of-the-art party, and besides preserving territorial integrity and state sovereignty, the development of domestic economy is basically our policy. We need respect for the Constitution, especially now that the Constitutional Court has made decisions on unconstitutional elements in Vojvodina. We'll talk about it tomorrow at the rebalancing session. To recap, Serbia needs a synergy of political neutrality and new industrialisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1612	Thank you. I'm setting a 60-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1613	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1614	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Parliament Club will support in principle all the draft laws which are the subject of a united debate today, but due to the specificity of the situation, I will focus my discussion solely on amending and supplementing a set of tax laws that are part of the government's measure to stabilise public finances. It is clear that the Republic of Serbia has faced an extremely difficult financial situation that requires decisive fiscal policy measures. In that sense, the government reacted urgently and adopted a package of measures to stabilise public finances. One part of these measures is still on the agenda today, one part will be on the agenda tomorrow. The proposed measures depending on the way and effects to be implemented, I would consider them rigorous, ambitious, socially responsible, in one good part and unpopular. When I say rigorous, I mean, first of all, about eliminating unnecessary costs of state and bureaucracy. They are ambitious in the work because they try and predict and plan to almost half the budget deficit from the current 7% to 4 and 3 and a half in 2013. They are socially responsible for the protection of the most vulnerable layers of the population and provide certain support for agriculture and businesses. And finally, they are unpopular, especially this set of tax laws, because it represents a reaction on the income side and, unfortunately, it is not possible without increasing tax rates and, of course, they are unpopular measures, but, in one part, they are being extorted. It should be said that it is time for such moves and a time when we can still make such moves. The aim of the package plan is certainly to stop the windy growth of the budget deficit and the public debt and, as I said above all, to bring down the budget deficit from 7.1% of the gross social product or somewhere at 235 billion dinars to an acceptable of 4% of the gross social product, i.e., with a certain new package of measures, probably with a new budget for 2013, and on those 3.5% of the gross social product, which is also a proposal from the Fiscal Council, and with some reliable likelihood that this will ensure a halting of public debt growth. I'm sure there's no chaos and he won't be in public finances. He won't be here because the government is responding. Probably if she hadn't predicted this package of measures and reactions, it might have been chaos, but fortunately, chaos won't be. At this point, it should be said that it is now shown that, when the Budgetary System Act provided for certain fiscal rules, we knew that they were not a good enough guarantee that all the parameters of public finances would move within the framework of fiscal rules, but it was clear that they could really set one particular direction, one goal to be pursued, and today we see that they are also an anchor that simply draws both the public and measures from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to move within the framework of fiscal parameters. The proposal to amend and supplement tax laws and reactions on the income side is about increasing tax rates and should be said openly – no one can be happy, can be said to be good, because it is not when tax rates are increasing, but, as I said, at this point, it is not possible to fill the budget in a different way, or make bigger revenues. In some ways, it's an extortional measure. As a result, we have an increase in tax rates on added value from 18% to 20%, which places us in a larger group of countries, such as Slovenia, Great Britain and France, and we have heard from the Minister himself that a number of countries really have an enormously higher rate, but one part is enormously lower. I think it's perfectly acceptable at this point because, again, it's an extortional move. On the other hand, there is an increase in excise duty when it comes to diesel fuel, TNG and cigarettes. Of course, excise duties are a special consumption tax and they are the most popular and popular when new revenues are to be collected, most certainly, because they are products that cannot be substituted. They are good at one part that can represent taxation of luxury products, and luxury products buy an average wealthier population and, in that sense, the effect is partly broken down into richer layers of the population. The income tax leads to an increase in dividends and income from interest from 10% to 15% and a corporate tax from 10% to 12%. These measures are to challenge indeed new revenues and should say that they are real, as they will produce to generate new 16.7 billion revenues in 2012, and 56.4 billion dinars in 2013. What is important and what should be said is that this is a realistic assessment of the achievement of additional revenues and these said results are available. The very assessment of the Fiscal Council is that the amendments and additions of these tax laws are in line with good tax practice and will produce the desired and planned effects. That's what I'm saying, and that's what the fiscal council report says, but in the short report. Today is not the agenda for budget rebalancing. The opinion of the fiscal council on budget rebalancing is likely to be the subject of debate tomorrow. A more detailed analysis certainly requires a lot of time and a much more professional debate, when it comes to changing tax laws which are primarily on the receiving side. In that sense, when it comes to this, it is really not possible without speaking and bypassing the Tax Administration and the work of the Tax Administration which, in my opinion, I believe, really merits one status, both in material and in human and organisational terms, because it is an institution through which the state collects income. In this case, we also expect additional powers and ask for enhanced work of the Tax Administration. I really want to appeal, and I took advantage of the presence at the Committee on Finance's session to raise the question of the status of the Tax Administration and in light of the abolition of my own incomes, the opening of competitions, particularly with desire, if you want to compare the work of the Tax Administration and with some other independent institutions, such as the DRI for which the SPS Parliament Club has repeatedly advocated and expressed support. I think it is entirely justified that in these conditions much more account is taken of the material status of the Tax Administration. There are enough professional people in the Tax Administration, but, of course, a better material position, a better humane organisation, would lead to better work of the Tax Administration, more experts, and it would feel very quickly on the revenue side of the budget. After all, tax evasion is very important in Serbia. We have a gray and black market and it is good that this time tax laws, and the urgency of the government itself, that the Tax Administration is significantly working on the so-called so-called. cross-checking the income of assets and it is indeed one necessary process in which highly professional, responsible, moral and well-rewarded people in the Tax Administration are needed, so that the process can be implemented. Additional revenues would be made, but I am confident, justice in Serbia would also be done, if everyone were finally equal in front of the law. Of course, the amendments to the law, when it comes to VAT before the IRS, are also new challenges, in the sense that VAT, which is not charged within six months, will have to be intervened immediately by the IRS. These will be additional jobs where people will have to engage, as well as the tax administration itself. Serbia is a country with a low birth rate despite the impact of low birth rate on democratic development, it acts indirectly and on economic development, and on economic factors, as well as on social development, as the reduction of the active working population certainly affects the country's economic development. I am pleased that one of the basic and first objectives highlighted in Prime Minister Dacic's exposé is to define more clearly and better the democratic policy and stop the dying of the nation, today's proposals receive one of the significant stimulants, particularly in terms of baby equipment and the possibility of refaction and damage to value added tax. I mean, it's really politics and the SPS, and we've been trying to get rid of baby equipment since 2004 in 2006, 2007, 2009. We have been persistent enough, and here we have welcomed the epilogue that this other modality that we have proposed, but it will lead to the same effects to restore value added tax when it comes to milk, wheelchair, spoons and all other equipment necessary for babies. Of course, tax policy is possible and more important to support families with a larger number of children, and we really expect that this monetary stimulant is also in Serbia, I appreciate, very important and from a psychological point of view for these families, but of course also from a material point of view. Changes and additions of a set of tax laws, as I said, were dominantly carried out with the aim of collecting additional income, therefore, fiscal character, but in one part they aimed at a simpler collection system and certain reliefs for taxpayers. I'd like to mention, first of all, when it comes to calculating a tight interest rate, it goes from a comfort method to a simple internal account of 100. Then, an extension from 12 to 24 months to which payment delays can be made and the reduction of interest rates for small and medium-sized enterprises. As of January 1st, there is an opportunity for VAT to pay only when the goods are charged, and this option will be able to take advantage of all companies whose annual turnover is up to 50 million dinars, and so far this has been on the invoiced realisation, and certain deadlines for submitting tax returns have been extended. The centre for mandatory entry into the VAT system is raised from the current four to eight million dinars, which will allow many to choose between the VAT system and the flat-rate taxation, which is not insignificant at all, because VAT itself is a complex tax form that requires a lot of documentation, complex procedures and certainly certain taxpayers can be a problem. Also, an increase in VAT is foreseen for farmers from the current 5% to 8% and a commitment is made to pay money directly at the farmers' expense, avoiding certain tax evasion and abuse options, and a significant newspaper is also to introduce penals for the state if it is delayed with VAT returns. A completely logical and realistic decision. On the other hand, there is also a certain set of measures and decisions that are one way of introducing order into public finances, which have already been discussed. The minister read over a hundred parafiscal duties that are lifted and a taxi, and that is certainly a prerequisite for a simpler and cheaper business environment. The subject of the debate will be another law tomorrow, which is the Law on the Budgetary System, but it is simply impossible, all speakers have talked about it, bypass it at this time, and it foresees the abolition of its own revenues by the beneficiaries of the budget. Of course, this means that better control of the spending of public funds is achieved and space is created if better planning of these funds in the coming period can also achieve certain savings. There will be no more fees for the document issued by another state body, which is completely and absolutely logical. The government clearly expresses with the proposed measures its intention to protect certain layers of the population most difficult in the crisis. It should therefore be said that there will be no freezing of wages and pensions, although there have been such proposals in public, and by the professional public. It is good that the Fiscal Council has said in some ways that this measure is acceptable and good for them and that instead of freezing wages and pensions we will have their growth that will be consistent with the real potential of the 2% budget, so in October, and 2% in April of next year, that their indexation will continue from October next year in line with fiscal rules. Someone says it's really small, maybe not enough, but I think it's better this than it's frozen, and this is all, as I said, in line with the possibilities and current potential of the Republic of Serbia's budget. For over half a million of the most vulnerable pensioners, whose monthly incomes are below 15,000 dinars, the government has provided special assistance of 16,000 dinars, annually, whose first war was paid today, as we heard. It's a very sensitive social category whose only income is. On the other hand, this measure, by some political parties, suffers some criticism. However, this practice exists in the city of Belgrade and very good. In this way, one discrimination between pensioners in Belgrade and Serbia is lifted. I've talked to some pensioners, someone thinks it's really small, but those people who receive up to 15,000 dinars really every dinar is very valuable, even if they pay electricity, directorship and everything else. Their assessment is that it will indeed be an important help to them. Of course it costs the state. We think the state should pay for it. They're living people, they're not numbers to manipulate. Of course, VAT is a tax that is quite unfair and it equally burdens all consumers regardless of standard. The SPS is pleased that this lower rate has remained at 8% level and is primarily covered by food and products that are socially important, so products that buy the poorest layers of the population, and in this way the different scales of the rate actually get some progression of this VAT, and certainly by preserving this lower rate at this level, the possibility that food and the most basic foods will not be expensive. Finally, I said that the assessment of these measures can indeed be, that they are both rigorous, ambitious and courageous, because only with a new budget and new measures ahead of us are the opportunity to achieve all these goals and halving of the budget deficit, but they are indeed unpleasant and difficult when it comes to reactions on the receiving side. But I also think the SPS Parliament Club thinks that they already in 2013 allow us to see light at the end of the tunnel, stabilising public finances. With my wish and obligation, certainly all of us, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia to get out of this whole situation, of what has been happening so far, to learn certain lessons, not to repeat mistakes. Of course, the SPS invites everyone to make one necessary political consensus when it comes to such an important state issue, such as public finances, and the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a compact team, headed by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, will make a full contribution and succeed in my intentions. It assures the results that have already been achieved in these first 45 days, and if the other governments are left with a deadline of 100 days, this government is already excellent and the first good results in a very short time. Due to all of the above, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the parliamentary club will support the draft legislation, which is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1615	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1616	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look back at the very beginning of my address in the way we have scheduled this session today, in the way we are holding this session and the time that we are currently attending after the break we have had. So, this session was scheduled yesterday at 15.00 p.m., when the head of our parliamentary group called to ask if this session, which was announced in the newspapers, on TV, and we MPs are not familiar with the details, what will be discussed at that session, asked whether these sessions will really be tomorrow, he said, that there will be a session and there will be about 30 points of the agenda. Our head of the parliamentary group asked, so well whether we're going to get a call, so he says – we can dictate if you want, 30 points of the agenda, will you remember, since he was on the street, so he says – I'm not sure I'll be able to remember all 30 points of the agenda. So that's how this session was called in. We are therefore attending a very serious session, which talks among other things about budget rebalancing, about changeovers, could even say system laws at the session, whose material MPs could not have met, at a session that started today at 15.00 hours, at a session with Minister Dinkic speaking for about two hours. Unfortunately, he's not here right now, and I wanted to remind him if he wanted to get a record in the speech, in the length of the speech, that Fidel Castro was speaking at the United Nations session for four hours, 20 minutes, but I didn't say he broke his speech record at the Congress of the Communist Party of China, where he spoke for seven hours and ten minutes in a play. Mr Dinkic, truth be told, did not speak in part, but from three and a half hours now, how long today's debate lasted, he spoke for two hours. All the hours and a half were spoken by the heads of the parliamentary groups, we welcomed a lunch break or dinner break, I don't know what the chairman explained, as the League of Champions explained, Mr Dinkic probably went to watch the Champions League game. Here is the lady, Minister of Energy and Environment and Development, I am not quite sure what this ministry has to do with VAT and increasing the VAT base rate from 18% to 20%, but it is according to the agreement that the regions are working the first shift, and that the Serbian Progressive Party is working the second shift today. We've been here all day, waiting, and unfortunately our MPs won't be able to speak today, for the basic reason that their order of speech will fall somewhere around midnight. At that time, citizens will not be able to listen to the discussion, as the chairman said, this will not be an open public discussion, as he announced, explaining why he called the session in 15.00 hours. This session was convened in 15.00 hours, so that Mr Dinkic would maintain his monologue, to continue the accusations unfounded at the expense of his coalition colleagues yesterday, for the basic reason that this government has no concept. In my Expose, which I have preserved, as I have calculated, as well as most MPs that nothing will be achieved, and we are on the way to witness it, unfortunately, he said that the other great problem of our country is the huge social decomposition, the largest number of poor and one percent of the privileged and wealthy, who stand out from the rest of society, which, by their arrogance and greed, can be branded as new aristocracy. Such a state of huge social differences undermines the stability of the state and society. Is the increase in the basic rate of sales from 18% to 20% on this aristocracy, is this what the Prime Minister in his Expose meant? In his Expose, the prime minister said he would not call for the austerity and tightening of citizens' belts, whose standard of living in the previous period had been drastically reduced. That's where he stood when he said it. So, they won't invite citizens to belt tightening. Is it a fact that it increases the VAT base rate from 18% to 20%, calling for belt tightening? Yes, it is. Seriously calling for belt tightening. Unfortunately, some products are not already on the shelves of our shops and have nothing to buy, and the belt has long been tightened in government and in the period when there was a global economic crisis, when there were problems and when we were on a good path to overcome this crisis, unfortunately, you drag us back. I see the role of the state as a need to help citizens and businesses and all others in need. Today's presentation of Mr Dinkic was nothing more than a continuation of the election campaign. It's done since May, when the elections were over, along with its coalition partners, with firstly the target of yesterday's fellow ministers, who he sat with in the government, voting the laws and other legal acts that arrived in the assembly. Today they are the objects of his fierce attack, his lies, his unscrupulous lies. So it could be called a statement he made a few days ago, in a very watched television show, that 80% of the funds were used by the Environment Fund for billboards. We checked, below two percent were percentages for billboards. So he lied 78%. We made sure he wasn't telling the truth in the past. However, we were together in the government. The previous prime minister, he couldn't stand the arrogance and in some way the footing at every step, which will probably make this government, but it's up to you to assess how you're going to tolerate it and was kind of excluded from that government, of course, he's a man with a lot of vanity and now he's consecrating himself to his former colleagues. It's not even a little good for this country. It may be good for his vanity, but it's not good for this country, that every day it edits the daily papers, edits their headlines, sets out the headlines of those headlines, where his fellows today, Prime Minister, liars, thieves, etc. We know what his current coalition partners called him until they entered power with him. How can we not estimate that this is a waste of dust in the eyes of the citizens and say that this government has made a move? How in the situation where tomorrow's budget will be ahead of us, whose revenue side has been increased by 20 billion and spent increased by 25 billion. So the total expenditure in the budget has been increased by five billion, that's what citizens need to know. I'm sure there are few who are watching the National Assembly meeting at this time. The current opposition is given very little space in the media that you have taken over, but the citizens will surely one day find out that you have increased the deficit, that you have increased the cost of the budget, therefore, specifically by this decision five billion. Today, Mr Dinkic talked about everything except the agenda. He was talking about cross-examination of property. What means cross-examination of property for a minister who in all previous governments, where there were both DS representatives and in whom there were no DSS representatives, but the DSS which, it could be said, is part of this ruling coalition, it is seen by their statements and attitudes, coalitions by local, today's exposure by the DSS who, in some ways, have joined the ruling coalition itself, there is no secret, there is the right opposition left by DS, of course with their coalition partners. Of course, the LDP with all its topics where it attacks the DS more than it seriously attacks the ruling coalition. How did Mr Dinkic, who today spoke for two hours at this speaker of the Assembly, not allow MPs to tell what they thought about these laws that are on the agenda today? How can it explain to citizens that the tax rate has been increased from 18% to 20 percent and that all the products they buy, except food that unfortunately is already running out of shelves by 2%? Today I have to say that by that impression I entered into an electrical equipment store in order to buy 10 small nails for some of the photos that I personally did, that I would not be subject to the investigation of the origin of the property again, it was not about any artistic photographs, but about the photographs I did and I listened to the conversation of the seller and his manager in which the seller said, "Are the prices going up again? "The object they were talking about cost 120 dinars, today 200 dinars. The manager told him it wasn't the final price. For what? Well, because of what the government has done in 45 days or so, to be fair, not in 45 days, but since the day Prime Minister Dacic announced he will run and be prime minister. From that day on, this government is somehow acting as a team. What have you done so far? You have passed the National Bank Lex Personalis Act, as it has been named in the professional public because of one person, you have brought down all the credibility that our National Bank had in international frameworks, in 10 days our credit rating has been reduced, in 20 days all credits on the international market have been raised for our businessmen, for our country, etc. to increase the risk of investment in Serbia. Is that what the businessmen expected? Are you going to tell them by increasing taxes from 18% to 20 percent that you're doing them good? What's going on next? You drove the IMF away. They came to visit Serbia only to make sure that you really intend to stay with the existing National Bank Act, which has a double management system that is set up under the party system. That's all they came to ask you. Gentlemen, with statements that I would not repeat, Mr Dacic, the President of the Republic Government, which, in the words of cursing, refers to the Federation, the Confederation, however you will and to the people who work in it, is driving the EU from Serbia. It's not a playground or a place to make jokes. Running a state, running a government is one very serious business. Someone who thinks he's running the country will, unfortunately, bring us back to the '90s. That dictionary wasn't used by his former president either. He may have done worse, but he didn't use that dictionary. On the day of their entry into power, the Constitutional Court's decisions, to which judges return to work, began to arrive. I'm not saying there weren't any honest people here, but judges who are guilty... (President: Please return to the topic. ) Why today did you not tell Mr Dinkic, your president, to return to the topic? (President: Mr Dinkic spoke on the agenda point. ) The cross-examination of property was the agenda point today? I don't remember that kind of agenda being on the agenda today, but I'll be back on the subject. So the two laws on the agenda today are the Law amending the law on value added tax, which increases the tax rate from 18 per cent to 20 per cent. That's what this government gave its citizens. Since the day of adoption of this law, all products, the citizens of Serbia, you know, will be more expensive 2%. Not 2%, we know that traders with whom you, apparently, are in good relationships, are creating a final price. From the day of adoption of this law, small businesses will pay raw materials of the semi-product by the same percentage of the increase. So the higher prices will be their input products and all of what you said, that you release them from various taxis and contributions, will not replace the increase in this VAT. The second law you throw dust in the eyes is, for example, the abolition of the obligation to own fiscal registers for a certain number of craftsmen. This, I would say, is the highlight of political cynicism, but it could also be the subject of responsibility and political responsibility, and I could say, using the terminology Dinkic used these days, and criminal responsibilities. So Mr. Dinkic was an advocate of fiscalization. He made small businesses buy fiscal cash registers. He has made a lot of people in charge, going to education for the use of fiscal registers, buying devices to connect with the National Bank. Now, generously, your government and Minister Dinkic are proposing a law that abolishs the obligation to own fiscal tills. Why is there no provision in this law that the owners of these fiscal registers will be paid back the money they invested in buying these fiscal cash registers, of course, increased by taxes and contributions they paid and increased by the interest rate they would have received if they had kept it in one of the Commercial Banks. That amount would move safely to 600, 700 euros. So, in my amendment, I suggested that the state be obliged to make up for that amount to those fiscal cashiers, and I think it would be really fair, because they are not obliged to buy a fiscal cash register or five years ago yesterday, and now they don't need that cash register anymore, according to the government's decision. Finally, of course, I, and the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, will not support this law for the basic reason why it does not go to help ordinary citizens, that they do not tighten their belt further, but it is a demagogue story that is aimed at misleading citizens that this government is doing something. This government is still in the election campaign, you're still fighting for positions in this government, you're still looking at how and how you're going to get out of that fight. So I don't consider these laws any change. An increase in deficits or total expenditures by five billion, that proves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1617	Thank you. Mrs. Savelic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1618	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96. For the second time today, we are listening to criticisms at the expense of the promoter, and we know that according to our Rules of Procedure, it is very precise that the promoter can receive a word whenever he asks for it and that it is not subject to any time limit, and indeed we believe that Minister Dinkic acted not only responsibly as minister, but in full compliance with our Rules of Procedure. We also know that MPs of some parliamentary groups, unfortunately, may have had more opportunities in the previous period to see their ministers at the counseling of economists at the Grand Hotel in Kopalnik, than here in the Assembly, but it is obvious that, fortunately, this practice is changing. I think that for every commendation that Minister Dinkic spent five hours with us today, of that, probably, as his colleague accurately measured, two hours and spoke. This was of great importance not only to us MPs but also to the citizens of Serbia. It certainly is for us MPs because we have received detailed explanations about the measures and the state in which the state is located, but as MPs, we have also had the opportunity to read the laws and to be on committees and possibly attend various other places where the laws were interpreted and explained, and the citizens are not. I think this was very important to them. Today they have been given a complete opportunity to hear what the package is proposing, because it is ultimately about them and their standard of living. I will ask Minister Dinkic and present minister and all other ministers to continue with this practice, because I believe that most MPs share this opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1619	Thank you. Mr. Kasalovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1620	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, although it was also a member of 106, so you warned the speaker. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, the previous speaker presented certain untruths and misinformation. You're out of the IMF in 45 days. The IMF mission came out in January this year. At the time, we had uneasy explanations from the former prime minister and the finance minister that the IMF had not done so, that it was in some transitional status. We had a broad discussion on the Finance Committee, and that's just the truth. In 45 days' time, this government did not drive away the IMF mission, but rather those unfavorable explanations. We are making a distance from the EU, reportedly Prime Minister Dacic and this government. Well, one of the first visits by Prime Minister Dacic was to Brussels where the government's work was clearly highlighted, its pro-European definition and the government's intensity and prime ministers to meet the conditions in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. We just don't have those moving goals with the desire to really get a date to start negotiations as soon as possible. It would rather be that these unfavorable explanations on the fact and real state of public finances of the Republic of Serbia, suspected privatisations in which members of certain political parties were obviously taking part are moving the EU and Serbia away from the EU, and not this government, which in the first 45 days, is the only government to call itself in this way, in all democratic societies it is some period of 100 days. The prime minister said there would be no freezing of wages and pensions, in that sense about tightening the belt and there is no such thing. The government is compact, led by Ivica Dacic, and of course with one such unargued criticism, untrue, at this point the government has no serious alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1621	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic, replica. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1622	Mr. Vesenovic, it's just amazing that your obsession with Mladjan Dinkic doesn't stop all this time. It is amazing that you, as a Democrats, are denying someone here in this House the right to speak. The minister has the right to speak because it's serious laws. His speech is not limited to anything here, and I think it's good that we all heard what he said about these laws. You're saying he's doing newspaper headlines. All Serbia and all of us here know who is editing and how news headlines have been edited today and who is doing it. You're wondering what cross-evaluation is. I get the circumstances, as a tax collector, I know what it is, so I'll tell you. It's a tax method that will lead many of your colleagues to a serious problem because they won't be able to explain where they got the abnormal wealth they got. You're even arguing with your opposition colleagues. You obviously have a problem because the LDP is taking over your leadership position in the opposition and I understand that. So, you've brought yourself where you are, with your pride. It really seems pathetic all the things you've been saying. Once again, I call upon you as a Democrats that you have no right to deny the word to anyone, and at least to the representatives of the government who came here to explain and defend the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1623	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1624	I forgot to count the time Mr. Dinkic used to say that Mr. Ilic spoke for 20 minutes at the time. So Mr Dinkic and the representatives of the region spoke for two hours and 20 minutes of three and a half hours as long as the debate lasted. No one contests Mr Dinkic's right to speak, but there must be a measure. People’s MPs should be able to say something in this National Assembly for at least a minute. This is the National Assembly, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor is this a session of the Region. So, Mr Dinkic spoke beyond measure, through every courtesy of this assembly. And I didn't humiliate this house, I humiliated Mr. Dinkic, and that's what this is about. I didn't ask you what cross-examination was. That's probably when they cross someone up and interrogate them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1625	Please do not address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1626	Thank you. I didn't ask that, but I said it wasn't the subject of today's agenda, that none of the points of the agenda was cross-examination law. It was just an example of what Mr Dinkic was talking about, and at least he talked about the subject. So, Mr. Ilic, I'm glad that you and your fellow Socialist Party colleagues are acting as one whole. I'm sorry that as an opposition, we don't function as one whole. I will repeat once again that the DSS is not an opposition or at least not a real opposition. (President: Time. ) Let me evaluate it, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1627	Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1628	Mr. Vesenovicu, your problem is obvious because you are not aware that you have made a mess of public finances and we hold this session precisely because we have a record budget deficit. A hole like this was made in a budget that we won't be able to resuscitate for a few years. It's your job. You mentioned, among other things, how is it possible for Mladjan Dinkic to talk about these topics today, while sitting with you in the government? Well, he was sitting with you in the government until you threw him out just because he told you the truth that every citizen knows. He was probably wrong to tell you that, since everyone already knows that you had an incompetent prime minister and a finance minister who just made this mess in public finances. What we are trying to do today is to bring order, to stabilise finances, to make changes to the laws that will allow Serbia to work sustainablely in the future and to make a sustainable budget in the coming year. So you have no right to talk about these things where you've been directly involved, not you personally, of course DS who's had responsibility for public finances for the last six years. In those six years, you've borrowed the land twice. In 2006, external debt was 7 billion, and today it is 15 billion. At that time, it was 30% JDP, and today it is 56 and 66%. You have no right to defend anyone from speaking, and at least the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1629	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1630	Thank you. I really won't answer again unless I'm mentioned. I will remind Mr Ilic that the chaos in public finances has made a law on funding local self-government with 42 billion dinars. The fiscal council warned on time about that fact. The law was not proposed by anyone from the DS, but proposed by Mr Dinkic, who today is innocent of everything the previous government has done. The evidence that this deficit will still be is the fact that I pointed out that the total expenditure has been increased by five billion and the total deficit has been increased. Is that telling us anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1631	Predrag Markovic, but on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1632	Rules of Procedure. Dear President, just a little request for both you and the participants in this debate. We are all in the interest of the laws being passed through a clearly prescribed procedure, and I ask that we all respect the contribution made by the MPs as part of this. I personally ask you to leave freedom for the MPs, especially those who are authorized to one item of the agenda, to find a way to express their understanding of the points that are on the agenda. It's their right not to know it's 23 points now, but to think it's only two, so they're talking about them. It is their right to assume that someone has proposed some law for which MPs of the National Assembly voted here. As you know, 532,000 voters, or Serbian citizens, have proposed a law on which it is concerned. It is their right to represent themselves as members of the government with someone who is today a member of the government, and they were not members of the government. It's their democratic right. Please allow the MPs to find their own way of metaphorically representing their views with accurate or incorrect data. It's a basic procedure that we all respect together. I'm not asking this House to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1633	Thank you. We heard the explanation, however, we did not hear which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. The word has Gjorge Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1634	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for giving me your word. Today we tried to participate in the discussion and the Finance Committee, but we tried several times to get back to you, which we failed. I hope it's not some new practice that the opposition can't speak on committees, when it can't already have presidents, it wouldn't be good for the further work and development of parliamentaryism. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here to listen to us all. We're from the league, but obviously we're not from the Champions League. Then it's not enough for him to stay to hear. Although he may have bet, since the analysis of gambling projections seems to be going well, so it would be another way to parafiscalally fill this budget. I'd go back a little bit on the subject, and that's a set of these laws that was proposed, because I think the discussion went the wrong way. Of course, this is just the tip of the iceberg compared to what was proposed specifically by NAED and USAID who did a good job and suggested a bunch of changes in so-called. The guillotine regulations, but it's not enough for us to do what's yet to be done, and that would possibly give some of the effects that are beyond what's needed to stimulate the economy and to accelerate growth and development. As you know, and I think the general public knows very well, the problems of our economy are not just parafiscal abuses, but the fact that we have depression today or so on. The recession, i.e. the decline of the social product, so that growth stimulation, i.e. expansionist monetary and fiscal policy, is something that is being used everywhere in the world today. Raising the VAT of 11%, as much as citizens will pay, is one of the measures to reduce the budget deficit, but what we don't think anyone here, at least from the proposing representatives, mentioned a lot, is the expenditure side of the budget and the fact that we are not concerned with parafiscal imposing, but paranormal public spending, especially in some parts concerning lower-level transfers, i.e. local self-government and subsidies, but we will discuss it when it comes to tomorrow's budget. The VAT is otherwise a value added tax, which means it can be 20 and 30 and 40% if there is no added value. I mentioned it in one of the previous exhibitions, which is that we simply have industrial production at the level of the '80s and no one wants to buy anything that we produce. It's a structural problem of the economy that I think will be something that this government will face, and I think some of the next ones will. The reform of the tax system and the tax administration, I'm glad it finally opened up as a topic. We are one of the few countries that has a regressive tax rate, which in practice means that the less you earn – the higher the rate, the more you earn – the smaller the rate. The VAT is usually the most unfair way of taxing, as the rate is the same for one who has monthly incomes of 10,000 dinars and for one who has monthly incomes of 10,000 euros. The arrangement on this plan that, speaking in both the prime minister's exposé and on several occasions on social justice, I think that correcting the way of taxation, in particular, the income of citizens would be one of the first things that would have to be analysed, because people who have the lowest incomes are taxed at the highest rate. One of the measures here is the delay in paying VAT. In our view, it is more than one way to reform the Tax Administration in the future for reasons that even today if you are in a VAT subscription, specifically ask people from the economy, and if you are looking back for this VAT, not that you will not get it, but that you will get control of the Tax Administration that will charge you so many fines that you are not worth asking for this VAT at all. This measure is in itself good, it exists in some other countries, but it is not the key to the problem. What's also important to look at in terms of the package of these laws is the relationship between the central government and local self-government. Here, some of the original revenues of local self-government are now being abolished again, although only a year ago, a famous Law on the financing of local self-governments that then made a hole in the budget, i.e. the IMF was making a problem about it, as the Republic of Serbia's budget had higher costs for some 42 billion dinars, as a colleague has already mentioned, so that fiscal revenues are now centralised again. As we learn from the proposing representatives, there will be a monitoring of the spending of funds at lower levels of government, especially in the area of earning in local self-government. We do not see how this is good if in the future we want to transfer some powers and decentralised Serbia. Sometimes, I don't remember it, I'm a little younger, but maybe there are some fellow seniors, the administrations of income were at the level of municipalities, they were still paying expenditures to higher levels of government. Now that's the other way around, the Republic Administration of Public Revenue has been introduced, and I think it's already 20 years old, so then the transfer funds are coming back from above, which we think is wrong, if essential decentralization is at all important to someone today, in the pre-election campaign we heard it was, but it's also one of the important topics that I think the Ministry of Finance would have to analyse. There are several solutions that may have arisen, or would improve such a package of measures. The tax bill is certainly a good suggestion, someone here suggested it. Also, the Subsidies Act would be a good measure, because they are now divided without any criteria and completely arbitrarily. The reduction in taxes and contributions, which has already been discussed, is very clear that if there were to be a redistribution of the economy in terms of tax cuts and contributions, the basis for the collection of that tax would increase. Since half of Serbia is now registered to a minimumer, and then part of the salary is paid on black, everyone knows that, because the burdens are huge, therefore, employees in those companies are not even creditworthy. That makes a big series of problems. There have been proposals on several sides to tax and to contribute to earnings cuts, but so far I do not hear from the proposing representatives that this is at all considered. The abolition of the forest regulations, of course, but what exists in other countries as a tax relief, and I haven't heard that anyone suggested it, is that the interest paid by citizens on any basis, let's say, to banks, I know that in the United States and perhaps in some other countries, is a deductible item for the basis of the collection of taxes on the income of citizens and for some other taxes. The interest rate is a deductible item because the item in the balance sheet is a success, and therefore, for that amount, the base which is taxed is reduced. That would be a very specific proposal, I don't know if anyone has ever analyzed it, but citizens today pay enormous interest based on basics and housing loans and many others. This would make the situation much easier and faster. It would be extremely important to respect the opinion of the Fiscal Council in such laws. It seems selective here. Today we heard on the Finance Committee that they had more grudges on this bill, but some are respected and some are not. I think it's important for that advice to play its part, not to dissuade its existence. All in all, essential decentralisation, rationalisation and professionalisation of public administration must be some ultimate goal in order to have the situation for the economy to dissipate both parafiscal and fiscal burdens. By then, we will have demagogy and further embellishment of the economic system, and Serbia will be a country of payments, counters and forms. It's normal that foreign investors, not to mention domestics, will always have a problem with that. In two or three years, we'll be telling the same story, and then we won't be able to blame Mirko Cvetkovic for everything, but we'll have to solve some problems. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina won't vote for this set of laws because we think they're superficial and more cosmetic. We don't see exactly what kind of economic direction this government is going. Tomorrow, when there's a budget debate, I think we'll have something to say about these topics. There's been a lot of discussion here about deficits and some other things that are not really a topic at all, but we're going to talk about it a little bit more tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1635	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1636	Madam Chairman, may I speak? I think there's some desire here to ban discussion. I understood that while I was in position, because I was experiencing things, that I could speak for a minute and 27 seconds on the agenda, that there was a debate in detail for five minutes, so it was three, so now it's two minutes. It is obvious that there is some desire of the former regime that parliament simply does not lead the discussion, or that only they have the right to discuss. Often when I listen to my colleagues from the former regime, I feel like we don't live in the same country, as if we weren't chosen by the same people, and as if all the problems we have today came yesterday, or August 1st, or when. Personally, I have no objection to politics being conducted in the Serbian Parliament. Laws are passed, expert discussions are under way, but politics is also being conducted. Everyone who is seriously involved in politics knows that the moment the election results of the last elections are announced, a new political campaign begins. We all do it without exception. Then we shouldn't rub other people's ears because they allow themselves to. However, there should be certain standards in politics. Not only do you promise what can be fulfilled, but what was in the past to be said at least truthfully. We've been accused here since this government was formed for everything and everything. For losing Serbia's credit rating, and we lost it before the government was formed. You know, credit rating doesn't determine the government's composition, it determines the government's public debt. We're accused of breaking negotiations with the IMF, and I think it happened in February of this year, when this government didn't exist, but was the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. We are accused that the decline in credit rating was also due to the NBS, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the NBS Act, and at the moment the current governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic, took over the governor, the euro was 119 dinars and seven pairs. For the uninvited, tomorrow there will be 115 dinars and 15 dinars. You know, very little time has passed, and already some certain results are feeling. When it comes to interest, at the moment of these famous Eurobonds that we've been broadcasting in dollars and not in euros, but that's how the prime minister represented us, the interest was 7.7% on our bonds. They're below 6% today. So there are some results in the work of this government, even though it's only been there 45 days. Now we can discuss which mechanisms were used. Are the mechanisms that the state has used, as state interventionism, and as far as I know, foreign reserves have not been sold, or have those who invested money in Serbia stopped bringing them up because they have more confidence in this government? We can discuss this. We can talk about a lot of other things, but what's basic and what's causing all these laws to change and supplement is a catastrophic situation in our public finances. You can't blame this government. You may blame some of the ministers who were in the previous government, but this government in general and this program that this government has, you can't. That's what you have to have arguments to do. Time to go back, we can't. The money you spent, we can't either. That's the past, she can't change anymore. But the fact is that the only thing that worked in this country between January and August 1st was the broadcasting of government securities of value and government debt. There's an 80 percent fulfillment. All other revenues in the budget are below 50%. Let's not talk about the dispensary, where it is for the purpose of the election campaign, which is the election campaign that no one should allow themselves, and not what's happening here in the Assembly right now, that money is spent on services that are not paid and that someone has to pay, that the expenditure side of the budget is deliberately misrepresented, and also, on that part, we have obligations that the state has to settle. Now we have one set of these laws which is actually just the predecessor of the law that we are likely to discuss tomorrow – the amendments and additions to the Budget Law. When we come to the fact that in a state of public finances, the question is, what can we do? I wish Serbia were in such a situation that it could have 10, 12, 15 mechanisms to get out of this situation. Unfortunately, there isn't. There are only a few available. The first is saving, which requires fiscal advice from us. I ask the question – what can we save on when 75% of the budget is already spent? It was not spent by these ministers from this government, but by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Can poor society save? Our people say, "You save when you have nothing, you have nothing to spare." One hand is empty and the other has nothing. The second mechanism is to increase tax revenues. But how? By increasing the tax base. Now we return to that first problem from the first mechanism – we are a poor country. We can single-handedly increase tax revenues, but it's only short-term. Because by seriously increasing tax revenues based on expanding taxation and increasing tax bases, we gradually choke the economy to a point where it stops working on its own. We won't have taxpayers anymore. The third mechanism is tax incentives and the creation of macroeconomic conditions for the development of the economy. We have a problem again – and of what? If we use all these three mechanisms in the way we can and cannot be satisfied, we can try to do something with our public finances. That's what these laws mean. I've been listening to criticism about the fiscal cash registers -- the state needs to pay entrepreneurs the fiscal cash register. No one's trying to stop him from using them today. But the goal is to get the grey currents, the grey economy, through an increase in bases that don't need to be used by the fiscal register, into the legal flows of the state. We have a gray economy today, so don't let us be wrong about not having it. She exists and she's serious. The situation in society has forced all these people to deal with such matters. What do you think it's like for someone who dares to start a private business, to start a small Str, an SZR, a SUR? How long will he have to submit first? Permission? How many taxis will he have to pay? Some once and some gradually, while performing their duties. How much will he have to endure a racket from various tax authorities under current law, so he can carry out his work, make a living for the costs, make a living for the workers, make a living for himself, make a living for the state? Who didn't try that, I don't think he knows what I'm talking about. It is in this direction that these laws go – that this pressure on this small enterprise finally ceases. The famous fiscal registers. Does anyone know that tax inspectors, just during the time of Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, closed various catering and other facilities because they found 270 or 80,000 dinars legally in the past money through the fiscal register and 900 dinars created by some surplus – closed the facility for 60 days? Who lost that? That's suicidal to the state. What's left to the owner? In 60 days, he says, "Okay, I got it for me." That's why he fired seven-eight workers, shut down the facility, and how many states did he lose? A lot. Such a provision is finally deleted. We can also talk about repatriation, i.e. they're puking more paid value added tax. You know who suffered the most? Exporters. Exporters suffered the most because the value added tax did not return to them. I guess it's in everyone's interest, and that same state, to take as much of it out as possible, because it's a new value, it's new jobs, there's new investments. But somehow, it had to be for some other things that were used for election campaigns. Or how many businesses were eliminated from the procurement process because it did not settle its tax obligations, even though the state repeatedly owed him more than it owed the state? Then we had much more expensive public procurement. The goal of these laws is to avoid all of this. We can also talk about the Environment Fund, we can talk about all the things that MPs and former regimes have been doing at this session and this debate, and we can talk about what the government has been saying, but the fact is that some things in the state have to change. The previous government has taken a path in which there is no return. We used to scare people here, not us, just about 40 days ago, they were intimidated by the citizens of hyperinflation, by the printing of money. What hasn't been said yet will happen. It didn't happen. Nothing bad can happen to any of these laws. I agree, we're going to unpopular, but those who are going to get angry must understand that much depends on them too. The big problem in society is that the increase in the overall value added tax rate, by only 2%, and from what do you think we pay off all the debts that have arisen and which this government has inherited from the previous one? About various agencies, various revenues of public character, and this congregation did not give consent to how they would be spent. He's not even the government. Now we have consequences. We're looking to get rid of them somehow. I think this is just the first step in solving our public finances. Just one first step that gives hope. It gives us hope in the SNS that something in this country is finally going to start happening, that it's good for the citizens, and that's why we're going to vote in the voting day for these proposed new laws. The same reason that Serbian citizens, when they saw this government, were given hope that they could live in a better and fairer society, because our goal is to build a fair society and that tax obligations are borne by everyone in their own way, in proportion to their financial power.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1637	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs. We're moving on to the list. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1638	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, Ministers, representatives of resolution ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SDPS, I would first like to resolve a dilemma that has been under way all day, as regards public debate on the newly proposed economic measures and the proposed budget rebalancing. I would like to remind fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Minister of Finance and Economy discussed the proposals for measures on the Social and Economic Council, so where these measures are to be discussed and where in every developed country in this world such problems and issues are being discussed. So, on one body where representatives of the labour world are involved, therefore, representative union organisations, employers' worlds, in this case the employers' union, and as a third partner in that tripartite dialogue, representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that the package of these economic measures is a kind of "new deal", Serbia's "new deal", and I believe that one good step and a good start in the process of implementing and implementing structural economic reforms in our country. I can freely conclude that we haven't actually had another time, we've had the path of bankruptcy and the path of some countries whose difficult and negative experiences we can see every day. Of course, all these negative aspects of the economic crisis, the great public debt, the high level of the budget deficit, are most felt by those most vulnerable layers of society and, of course, workers who lose jobs and unemployed who can't find a job. It is known that one of the biggest problems of our economy is structural unemployment. That's why I'm going to start this discussion with measures concerning the increase in value added tax. I believe, and in this, the representatives of business entities and employers agree, that this is the measure that has been extorted and that it is in fact the most honest measure, that it has shed the burden of this crisis and the problems we face on all layers of our society. But within this set of tax laws, we have one great thing, especially for micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which is that paying a value added tax, for those who have a income of up to 50 million dinars, they have to pay when they charge their goods and services. This is very stimulating, it will have a very positive impact on the liquidity of micro and medium-sized enterprises, and I think it will also affect the level of new employment. We heard several times during today's discussion, and this time I would like to appeal to the Secretary-General to consider and speed up the process of discharging earnings, therefore, taxes and contributions to profits. Because, as I mentioned today on the Finance Committee, Bulgaria, which has a percentage tax rate of about 50%, has the same population as Serbia, but several hundred thousand more workers, for this reason alone, because workloads are drastically reduced. So, if these burdens are reduced, it doesn't mean we'll have less money on the budget's revenue side. Even today, we heard that some representatives of the businessmen would agree that the value added tax would increase to 22% if profits were disbursed. I think it would be a good and extra impulse of the economy. Of course, it suggests our party, to think in the next period, when we begin to seriously implement structural reforms, therefore, introduce progressive taxes. The second aspect of my discussion refers to parafiscal intrusions, the elimination of 138 taxis of these quasi parafiscal loads. I think this will positively reflect the business environment and all economic factors involved in a single competition in our country. I think parafiscal impositions in some cases, we could define these days, release some small and medium-sized enterprises, a debt of as much as 500,000 dinars per year. There we can conclude that for this money, these small and micro-enterprises can employ one or two workers, and such companies are about 300,000. Imagine if half of these companies hired one employee over this money that they will literally, therefore, be suspended from this double taxation of their assets. The third aspect is the abolition of its own revenues, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes this is a very positive measure. That in this domain, the state can, as it would say, in its account and what it should do incases about 400 million euros, but what is even more important than that money, stand in the way of inefficientness and ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of those who used these own incomes to build profits and some things that were not, therefore, intended. What's also positive is that abolishing your own income doesn't apply to highly educated and scientific institutions, it's a very important aspect, because that's how we're going to stimulate scientific research, which will stimulate the development of technology. I suggest, both ministers and this government, that a serious focus be put on development, not only to encourage social communist sciences, but technical sciences, because we are here, as I say, very weak, we need engineers, we need IT experts, we need technology parks, we need products and services in that area with which we can be competitive on the regional and global market. The fourth aspect is a law that provides the possibility and the right of the Tax Administration to introduce into a normal system entities that operate and work within the grey economy and the gray market. Some research suggests that up to 30% of gross domestic products are lost in this grey economy. Not to mention, as a representative of the Social Democratic Party, I can't live with the fact that several hundred thousand citizens are working in a so-called black zone and is an entity of the black labour market. These are not people who have lost their right to work and everything that the right to work through international conventions, international labour organisations, the European Social Charter, have the right to remain without basic human rights. So they have no rights in this country. I think this bill will regulate that area and we'll succeed in one of the next medium-term periods to curb in one good percentage of the gray economy. Today, I have appealed to the Committee to Mr. Minister, when it comes to subsidies to take into account the dedicated spending of funds and better organisation, setting up better management control for companies that are users of subsidies, because it is a huge amount of money. I'd suggest you take care of the transition fund, which hasn't paid severance fees to employees since New Year's. The last part, foreign, direct investment. We need them, and I suggest we do our utmost to attract investment, but investments that will produce exchangeable goods, which will help us transfer technology and transfer new knowledge, but in addition to the development of production and the real sector, we also need the development of trade. I'm going to end this, what we're producing, and I think we can produce, we think we have human resources to produce competitive products and services, we can't sell it in Serbia. We can look up to good practice in the United States, developed countries of Europe, have managed to sell their way of life, their products, their services. I think that in the process of trade, the process of selling skills and the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade will work on that, in this process, for every civil servant and official to be an economic diplomat of this country. To sell products and attract foreign investors into our country. Therefore, I conclude, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support a set of these laws and economic measures. We believe that they are positive and we will support the budget rebalance, in hopes that structural reforms will be achieved in the next four years of the government's mandate and that the budget deficit will be reduced to a balance level of 0% and that we will gain conditions for one serious economic, economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1639	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on these very important laws, today we are leading in conditions where, first of all, the prime minister, after the end of the election campaign, gave a lot of contradictions and we seem to have unmeasured statements that are highly sensitive to the financial sector, but I'm not saying that that alone, but among other things, it has had an important impact on Serbia's credit rating, and we have inflation that is twice the projected in this year. We have a rise in the price of basic life supplies. We have unemployment that is the largest in the region except for Macedonia, Bosnia. With these short-term financial consolidation measures, there is no particular objection to this, but what SPO is interested in the Democratic Party of Serbia is the measures that will be adopted in terms of the medium-term financial consolidation plan, because somehow here from 2000 to 2012, all reforms in any area of ours, primarily economic and social and political life, were not rooted, were not comprehensive and were not implemented until the end. That is why we, with the establishment of our political party, considered and the time unfortunately gives us the right to and how we were right when we were looking for radical changes, primarily the economic system and many, many of the anomalies that were present, to which we warned all the governments in which we were partners, but it seems to me also the voice of conscience. Small and medium-sized enterprises, these are enterprises that employ perhaps 75% to 80% of total production employees in EU countries. What has the country been to a small and medium-sized entrepreneur so far? I think they treated him like enemy number one. With the complicated procedure of opening up the company first you get, you get a large number of obligations you have towards the state, local self-government, but you are immediately loaded with inspection services. We really thought, even today, and especially in these conditions that everything that goes and promotes private entrepreneurship, all the good measures of the state we will always support. We also talked about that anyone who employs a certain number of people should be free of tax obligations for a certain number of years, we dreamed there was a broad tax base, a low tax rate, but today the situation is what it is. SP – DHSS believes that, for example, the proposed measures should consider whether it is appropriate to increase excise duties on liquid gas, since a large number of people will first of all be affected, and we know that many of our citizens are using liquid gas in various ways. I would remind you, since I am a representative of the political party that was the pregnant opposition party from 1990 to 2000, that we signed in the markets and streets of Serbia a contract with a people that was largely the basis for making, Mr Dinkic, if you remember that G17 plus programme that was accepted by the DOS in 2000. All that is now being implemented was largely covered by the plan at the time by both DOS and the G17 Plus party. There were restitutions and opening files and fair privatisations, etc. and speeding up private entrepreneurship, but we know that we did not open the file today that we have passed the Restitution Act just to formally meet the EU's condition, but that it is not a good law. The relation to private property is what it is. Many colleagues talked about it today in the right way. What SPO and DHS is interested in is whether a medium-term financial consolidation plan will help businesses reduce the income tax by at least 20.30 per cent, whether a comprehensive tax reform will be implemented, whether a specific tax law will be passed that will systematically regulate this area, whether a series of system laws that promote economic development will be passed, because we believe that every country, of course, is in debt under conditions of economic crisis, but if it wants to get out of crisis, then it is due to a longer period and the debt money does not go dominantly into consumption, as was the case with us, but in production and so the country comes out of the crisis. We have really mentioned these good examples of Irish models, Budapest, Birmingham, etc. many times. in which the state has in various ways, even by renting free business space, stimulated and supported private entrepreneurship. I'm going to say something more tomorrow with austerity measures that are not covered by this draft Budget Rebalance Act. I would ask Minister Dinkic if there is any precise information on how much money has been given to preserve the virtual sovereignty of Kosovo and Metohija across various organisations, services dealing with allegedly preserving sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija? We seem to have an impression and many talk about it that most of the money did not go to those who needed it most, which is to the Serbian population in Kosovo and Metohija, but to end up in second place. Various numbers are mentioned. Since, of course, we... (Chairman: Please, time.) I'm done. Since we don't have the information, I'd like to know if you have the information, because it's said that there have been major abuses in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1641	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1642	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the first step on the road that has to be walked longer, it is not so assessed from the point of view of its length or size, but primarily from the point of view of the issue that it is a step in the right direction. It would be about the title of the subject, the ideas and the points of this short word, and I will try, for the reasons of economicity in time, to try to bring the word down to the essence of the matter, by joining fellows who complained about culture and ecology that they had reached an unpopular end of the debate, probably in this "interreinment" concept of public discussion, nothing is more unpopular than the essence of things, and so on in this topic. As this debate today persists, as such is being convinced of tomorrow's main, I guess, rebalancing, there is actually a completely wrong view of what it does. In fact, the whole set of legislative changes, together with the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, is just one draft of what is actually a matter, which is one platform, a plan for consolidation of public finances in Serbia, and this is the first step that I welcome on behalf of the party and on behalf of the Party Together for the Forest in the way of forming a reform of the fiscal system in Serbia. That's what it's really about. Of course, in many details and aspects, the importance of this thesis can be emphasized. I'd like to shed some light on a political aspect. There is no doubt that so many different remote policies and positions, which I suppose the only government of the Republic of Serbia can unite and gather, through this programme gets its concrete connection, content. Through this, in fact, a programme of consolidation of public finances we come to the reform content of the government's policy. I have to admit, there's a lot of creativity here. Reading these proposals in e-mails, I did not understand to this extent how wide the procedure is, as I am in the debates all day in the presence of Mr Dinkic's Finance Minister, and I would point out several components that are for every praise. The fact that the distinguished voice of the professional public, what I have managed to recognize are studies that relate to the anals and USAIDs, I mean specifically at a study called Bridges and Cupres, where, in fact, that concept of parafiscal loads is quite complexly enlightened. It seems that a whole series of political intensities have been respected, but what I particularly care about is the pre-election campaign of the URS. We have talked to many target groups in the campaign and farmers and representatives of students and representatives of small businesses, and a large number of pre-election promises are fully involved in this programme, such as. about agriculture. The fact is that in addition to social policy and unfortunate loans on the rise, agriculture is the biggest winner of this budget rebalancing proposal, just as this promise of a small economy, related to the collection of VAT only after the collection of its own services, a pre-election promise which, behold, changes are made by law. More importantly, complete historical news, such as the one about the abolition of direct budget users' own incomes, are even more important. It is apparently a measure that strengthens centralism in fiscal policy. In fact, that concept of feudalisation of resors and public addresses in fiscal policy is abolished, and it is known for every greeting, just as the fact, that the Party Together for the Shumadi has nothing to do with the topic of local self-government and the affirmation of local self-government. We advocate this with all our heart and soul, and we don't find it hard to clear this field of pragmatic duties, that's a big part, about 17 abolished taxis are actually revenues from local self-government, but that's barely about 5% of the actual revenues of local self-government. What is the point is the fact that it remains for the future, the unchanged relationship between local self-government and the republic in the distribution of income taxes to employees, which is a dominant source of income from local self-government. At the same time, I recall, it actually indicates that this is the continuation of a reform job in the fiscal system that we started as the United Regions of Serbia in the previous meeting. The biggest, most massive legislative initiative in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism is actually a project of decentralisation of the fiscal policy of the URS, when we resolved this issue with half a million citizens' signatures. This policy and this reform, in fact, we continue and continue in the future. It's this initial step that's in the right direction. The finance ministry, you, Mr Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only in the Party Together for the Forest in the United regions of Serbia's parliamentary group in the entire system of communication that we have launched in Serbia, have the full support to continue in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1643	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1644	Now I just don't know what to say, all Sasha said was what I meant to say, but good. A simple and simple question – why are there laws? They exist to respect them and to behave in accordance with these laws. Why do laws change? Most likely because these were not good before and should be changed to make the citizens better. It's the same case we have today. The laws so far have not provided an opportunity to implement something that is an obligation for those in power. The reasons why this is so likely to be in the predecessors, that is, those who have passed these laws and who have managed to do something that was most likely not good. I have no doubt that the change of these laws will bring about a improvement for the citizens of Serbia, normally, not to some extent, and it will not be colossal, but in a long time the citizens of Serbia will have the opportunity to see that this government fulfils the obligation both she and the prime minister gave on the day he spoke here which are the government's guidelines. I can also say that I am pleased with the opposition that said it would support these laws and our efforts. As I can see, that opposition kept its promise, it's not there, they're gone, they left this session to make it easier for us to carry it out. Normally, these bill proposals we're going to pass in voting day won't suddenly change everything, but it's good to move. I can point out a few of those laws I've observed here. I know that with these laws many will not be satisfied, and some will be. For example, the Duvana Act will not bring much gratitude and prosperity to those who consume this preparation, but let's say the Wine Act allows wine producers to do their job much cheaper and easier, and that these varieties of wine that are very important to us who drink wine will allow them to go to the market in a better way and give us the opportunity to consume domestic wines, not to harass ourselves with some foreign wines, as it says in this proposal. These are the wines from Macedonia. I particularly found it interesting that it was within the framework of the Tourism Act, and the fact is that our tourism from this change in the law might be missing one tourism ministry, because if we already want to be a tourist force and even if we invite our citizens to take their annual vacations and their tourist adventures in our country, then we have to arrange that area. This is just the beginning. I hope that there will also be changes in other areas that will allow something to be done to improve our people. It has been mentioned here several times about this new fiscal cash register law. I believe that most of the entrepreneurs who have used these relief cases so far will be happy to accept that change, and those who do not want to accept it can continue to work with fiscal cash registers. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-18-0.u1645	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that we're terminating work today. Continuing tomorrow, September 19th at 10.00 p.m. The first speaker tomorrow is Miss Bojana Bozovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Suzanne Spasojevic and Vesna Stepic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I am next to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior; Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry; Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government; Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic, Minister of Development and Environment Protection; Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management; Prof. Zarka Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Transport, called for a session to attend both Vlajko Senić and Ivica Kotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry; Milisav Čogurić, Vojkan Simic, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration; Predrag Marić, Assistant Minister of Interior, Head of the Emergency Sector; Dr Mirjana Filipović and Dr Marko Grubišić, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment; Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport; Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior; Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Normal Affairs and International Cooperation at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work on a joint review of the proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 24 of the agenda, following applications for the word of the MPs. The word has a People's Parliament, Bojan Christmas.
