ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66202	(Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Zechariah Trnavcevic, the oldest MP among you. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly in this session and, before work begins, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in your future work. I would like to inform you that today's First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, is attended by the president and members of the Republic Election Commission, who I welcome. I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one of the youngest Members of Parliament with four electoral lists received by the largest number of seats and by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Since I am the oldest MP of the people, I have the honour and obligation to chair this session, until the election of the National Assembly President, in which I will be assisted by the youngest MPs: Jelena Budimirović, the youngest MP from the electoral list Let's move Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, Jovana Joksimovic, the youngest MP from the election list Selection for a better life – Boris Tadic, Nevena Stojanović, the youngest MP from the election list Ivica Dačić – SPS, PUPS, JS, Bojana Bozanovic, the youngest national MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, as well as Veljko Odalović, Secretary-General of the National Assembly. I ask the youngest Members of the people to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 243 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. The minutes from this session will be handled by the Secretary General of the National Assembly. As usual, the course of the session is stenographed and recorded. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the above provisions, the agenda is as follows: D n e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of National Assembly President, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly, 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly, 6. The selection of members of permanent parliamentary delegations in international institutions. I am informed that today's First (Constitutive) session is attended by students of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, headed by Professor Vladan Petrov. One round of applause and a hello. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Article. Five and six. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP shall gain the right and duty in the National Assembly on the day of confirming the mandate of the MP. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First Constitutional Session, on a proposal from the chairman, most of the votes of the national MPs present, educates a three-member commission. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest among them. The Commission shall, on the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, determine whether the information contained in the assurance of the selection of each MP is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances about the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). Accordingly, and the consultations carried out, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the People's Parliament's Parliament and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out be chosen by the MPs: 1. Gojko Radic, selected from the Election List Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, 2. Nenad Konstantinovic, selected from the Election List Selection for a Better Life – Boris Tadic, 3. Milisav Petronijevic, elected from the Ivica Dacic Electoral List -- the Socialist Party of Serbia, the United Pensioners of Serbia and the Unique Serbia. I note that it is in agreement with Article 6(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly necessary for the Commission's proposal for education to be voted by the majority of the Members of Parliaments present. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the consensus of the vote's assurance for the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. 222 MPs voted against -- there were no votes, one abstentions, not 13 votes, a total of 236 MPs. I find that most of the votes have accepted this proposal. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the consent of the People's MP and Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I ask the members of the Commission to hold a session at the Hall and in the Parter immediately. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue our work after an hour's break, at 11.20 p.m. Thank you. [[After a break.]] I would like to remind you that, with the invitation of this session, you have also received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly. Before the start of this session, you were presented with a report by the Commission to determine the agreement and assurance of the election for the MP and the report by the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. Does the Commission's rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. ) pursuant to Article 27(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and Article 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of a report by the Commission to determine the agreement and assurance of the election for the People's Parliament and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, confirming the mandate of all MPs. Since the term of office of all Members of Parliament has been established, pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, has been established. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "Dear and Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on your sworn oath and I would like to remind you that we were all elected together on 6 May 2012, to have the trust and mandate of the Serbian citizens to work in this high-level legislative body to regulate public affairs, the relations of citizens and the state and citizens, and to focus on the most important issues that depend on the fate and life of our beautiful country of Serbia and its citizens. Serbia is in difficult economic, social and other troubles at the moment. We are under pressure from unemployment, poverty, low purchasing power, and the saddest and hardest hopelessness. A large number of people do not believe that a change and rebirth will occur soon. I would like to remind you that in the next four years, this National Assembly has been invited to come to an agreement with all of us to find a solution to better manage Serbia. We are a country of good opportunities, and if we awaken hope and energy for our citizens, we can hope to overcome these hardships that pressure us all. I would especially like to invite you to join this business in a complex, common, without party divisions and interests, because this is a job and a mission that exceeds the interests of each party and is in line with hopes and wishes, the aspirations of the citizens of Serbia. I especially want to say, because I have been doing this job for years, that Serbia has great opportunities, that soon, not overnight, it becomes a green garden of Europe, a revoir of healthy, delicious, well-packed food, which will employ a large number of citizens and people, that we have significant incomes and that those who produce food become wealthy people. I want to remind you that if we do as we do in this country and as citizens of other rich and more developed countries of Europe behave, we will also live as they do, as wealthy, dignified and productive people. With that hope and the belief that it can be achieved and accomplished, I invite you to behave in the next four years. Your party interests and aspirations, to please the citizens, to gain their trust, their fondness in the future elections will first and best be achieved if you truly participate in these efforts. I would also like, honourable MPs, to increase, raise and restore the dignity of this home, to cooperate to a greater extent with its executive body, the future government, which we expect will come before us with a clear programme and a vision of how these people's affairs will be better guided and resolved in the future. It will be necessary to return to this home the institutions of interpretation and parliamentary issues and to make the degree of co-operation greater than it has ever been before. What I said was advice, that's a suggestion, that's a request. I want you to accept that, and good luck with our help. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, they'd stop now. I invite you to gather again at a special session at 1400 hours, at which the President of the Republic, elected in the elections held on 6 and 20 May 2012, pursuant to Article 114(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, ahead of this national assembly, to take an oath. Please be exact at 1400 hours. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 11.50 a.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66204	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 31 May 2012 (The session began at 14.10 p.m. The meeting is chaired by Zechariah Trnavcevic, the oldest National MP of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66205	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I would like to inform you that they are also invited to attend the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the National MPs and elected President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic: Former President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister of Government, Secretary-General of the Government, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, President of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, Chief of Staff of the Serbia Army, Director of Police, Director of Security Information Agency, Director of the Military and Security Agency, Director of the Military Intelligence Agency, Director of the Military Intelligence Agency, Civilian General, Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data, Commissioner for Equal Justice, President of the State Auditory, President of the Anti-Corruption Agency, President of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, President of the Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Court, President of the Supreme Court, Republic of the Public Prosecutor, Prosecutor of Justice, Prosecutor of the Prosecutor of the War, Prosecutor of the Prosecutor for the Criminal Crimes, President of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Presidents of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. They were also invited to attend today's session: His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince Alexander and his wife, the Prime Minister of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the President of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Mayor of Belgrade and the President of the Belgrade City Assembly, as well as all candidates who participated in the 2012 elections for the President of the Republic. Let me say hello to the esteemed guests on your behalf. Dear People's MPs and distinguished guests, this special session was convened on the basis of Article 114(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the President of the Republic swears an oath before the National Assembly when entering office. A report by the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the President of the Republic, held on 6 and 20 May, was submitted to all MPs. On the basis of the results of the re-voting, the Republic Election Commission has determined that it is in accordance with Article 21(1) for the President of the Republic. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, elected Tomislav Nikolic, who won the largest number of votes in the re-vote, held on 20 May 2012. In this way, the conditions for the President of the Republic, acting pursuant to Article 114(3), were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia takes an oath before the National Assembly. I remind you that, according to Article 262. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, swears by reading out loud the Constitution of the established text of the oath. After the oath has been made, the President of the Republic shall sign the text of the oath. I ask Mr Tomislav Nikolic, elected President of the Republic, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66206	(The President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, reads for the speaker the following text of the oath set out in Article 114(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. ) "I vow to dedicate all my strengths to the preservation of sovereignty and the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohia as its constituent part, as well as to the achievement of Ljudic and Maninian rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the constitution and laws, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will knowingly and responsibly fulfil all my duties. "
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66207	Thank you. Now I ask you to listen to the national anthem. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I ask the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate Mr Tomislav Nikolic on your behalf and on my behalf the President of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr Tomislav Nikolic, President of the Republic, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. former President, I do not like that word by law, Your Excellency, Your Honor, dear guests, I thank the citizens who elected me as president of Serbia and whose will I have made a public oath before you today on the principles that have long been an integral part of my life. Serbia is a country destroyed by the general crisis. The proof of that is the everyday life of the citizens. Unresponsibly and unknowingly privatized privatisation with many forms of robbery of people's property, and as a consequence we have unemployment and poverty; corruption; bribery and crime of every kind that has produced general uncertainty and mistrust in the institutions; abandoning the village; abandoning the whole parts of the country and pressure on cities; a negative rise in the population, and this has the consequence of the nation's old and prospects for the future are pessimistic. We gave in to the non-democratic principles in the development of the country. The result is the persecution of those citizens who are designated as political rivals. The media has been placed under control and are owned by political elites. The result is political persecution of competition, even judicial reform has been carried out in line with party interests and orders. The result is the solar return of justice and justice in our country. Monopolies everywhere you turn, citizens pay. I want a different Serbia. Finally united in the fight for a better life. Serbia in which children will rejoice every new day, proud to have the opportunity to compete with peers in the world. I want Serbia free from tomorrow's fear, a house that has two doors, east and west. I want Serbia to be an equal member of the European Union and that will never give up its sovereignty and territorial integrity, its Kosovo and the Metohija. I sincerely want us to succeed and realize the wishes of the citizens I have brought to you. If you fight for people, start Serbia and make life a better life, I will help you with the strength that the Constitution gives me and the way I've been chosen. In political life, I spent 20 years in opposition and I have often been the victim of injustice and democracy, I will not stop fighting, until Serbia fights crime and corruption, monopoly and the rule of political elite, and until it becomes a legal, fair and democratic state of equal citizens with the same chances for all. I want both of you and me, I want all of us to be happy in our work. Thank you for your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-0.u66209	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I hereby conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you. Excuse me, I'm asking everyone to attend a formal cocktail in the central hall of the House of the National Assembly. Thank you. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Zechariah Trnavcevic, the oldest MP among you. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly in this session and, before work begins, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in your future work. I would like to inform you that today's First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, is attended by the president and members of the Republic Election Commission, who I welcome. I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one of the youngest Members of Parliament with four electoral lists received by the largest number of seats and by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Since I am the oldest MP of the people, I have the honour and obligation to chair this session, until the election of the National Assembly President, in which I will be assisted by the youngest MPs: Jelena Budimirović, the youngest MP from the electoral list Let's move Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, Jovana Joksimovic, the youngest MP from the election list Selection for a better life – Boris Tadic, Nevena Stojanović, the youngest MP from the election list Ivica Dačić – SPS, PUPS, JS, Bojana Bozanovic, the youngest national MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, as well as Veljko Odalović, Secretary-General of the National Assembly. I ask the youngest Members of the people to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 243 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. The minutes from this session will be handled by the Secretary General of the National Assembly. As usual, the course of the session is stenographed and recorded. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the above provisions, the agenda is as follows: D n e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of National Assembly President, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly, 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly, 6. The selection of members of permanent parliamentary delegations in international institutions. I am informed that today's First (Constitutive) session is attended by students of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, headed by Professor Vladan Petrov. One round of applause and a hello. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Article. Five and six. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP shall gain the right and duty in the National Assembly on the day of confirming the mandate of the MP. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First Constitutional Session, on a proposal from the chairman, most of the votes of the national MPs present, educates a three-member commission. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest among them. The Commission shall, on the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, determine whether the information contained in the assurance of the selection of each MP is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances about the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). Accordingly, and the consultations carried out, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the People's Parliament's Parliament and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out be chosen by the MPs: 1. Gojko Radic, selected from the Election List Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, 2. Nenad Konstantinovic, selected from the Election List Selection for a Better Life – Boris Tadic, 3. Milisav Petronijevic, elected from the Ivica Dacic Electoral List -- the Socialist Party of Serbia, the United Pensioners of Serbia and the Unique Serbia. I note that it is in agreement with Article 6(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly necessary for the Commission's proposal for education to be voted by the majority of the Members of Parliaments present. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the consensus of the vote's assurance for the People's MP and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. 222 MPs voted against -- there were no votes, one abstentions, not 13 votes, a total of 236 MPs. I find that most of the votes have accepted this proposal. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the consent of the People's MP and Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I ask the members of the Commission to hold a session at the Hall and in the Parter immediately. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the Report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue our work after an hour's break, at 11.20 p.m. Thank you.
