ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1647	I was very surprised at one very short moment by this united debate on this number of laws, but only because it was passed, i.e. the session was scheduled at five to 12. We got the material in five to 12, and what I was going through through these laws, within a very short time, I found the essence I was going to talk about. First of all, as regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, I believe that at least he deserved to have one special debate and to be referred to it in a different way, starting with the first member in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of local self-government where we have indicated that the election revenues of local self-government, including the compensation for the use of construction land, compensation for the construction land. I would really like to ask our respected minister immediately after, if he can answer, which is why these two items are not mentioned at all in the amendments and additions to the law, as it has already been, that is, how it already exists in this current Law on the financing of local self-government. It is extremely important that these revenues go to the local self-government budget. In the Tchaitino municipality, where I come from, that makes more than a third of the budget, and it's really a very significant revenue. In the same article, we also have a point that refers to self - contribution. I really don't know if he's been introduced into some community at all. As far as I know, it is not, because according to the current system, self-delivery is introduced by voting in a referendum. By making it 50% plus one citizen in that community. I just don't think it's possible, because people won't go out in the election for 50%, let alone some part of their pay. So I think it's unnecessary. As for Article 3, it is very correct, along with some fine-tuning work, until I have seen the amendment of the Government, where it says that in certain local self-governments, companies will be able to raise up, in paragraphs 3 and 4, for large businessmen and for companies, in Section 4, if the resolution ministry permits. I really don't think that's right, I don't know why it would work at all if we're already limiting and limiting companies, because we're coming into a situation where we're going to continue what the former regime was doing, and that's to be accounted for, watched and determined by the local self-governments according to political similarity, or inadequacy, and I think that this government certainly has a chance to correct and remove from this former regime. Another very important point in this law is Article 6 which is completely unknown. These are the eligible revenues to local self-governments which are fully undefined in the current law, currently in force, so they are precisely specified, all the eligible revenues to local self-government. However, in this law, amendments and additions to the law have not been defined at all. I would really ask, we have made an amendment to this subject to define and specify exactly what all of these reduced revenues of local self-government, because local self-government needs to know what they can count on, what revenue they are. The whole system is built from small parts to larger ones, meaning municipalities, local self-government according to the big system. If we don't have these local self-governments that can't work either, that's for sure, and through this law on funding local self-government, we can definitely do it and we can change it. Other laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws that are defined here, show one essence, some similarity in them, for example. in amendments to the Law on Public Roads. We see that five fees are lifted that my careful eye cannot miss, went into the municipal budget and on the other hand we raise the capital profit tax from 10% to 15%. So that tax is paid by the richest, it's paid by all layers of society, when they're moving certain properties and things like that. Once again, we have in the Water Act that income from the water supply, which is 50 percent poured into the municipal budget and used to edit water streams, is used to protect against floods and is now being abolished. Again, on the other hand, the VAT rises and so on. We, in particular in the Užičko region, had a flood two years ago. The Cheetah municipality didn't get a dinar from the budget. We had to finance everything with our own resources, all the damage we had to take care of, for reasons we were politically inadequate. I hope this government doesn't behave like this and there won't be any politically-like, politically inadequate ones. Therefore, I ask you to be very careful when adopting these laws, i.e. when adopting certain amendments. There are still some points about limiting the company, etc. I'll talk about it a little bit more when they're amendments. But what's very important, and we see it also in terms of changes and additions to this law, is that everything is compensated by incomes from income tax. So that tax is increased from 40% to 80%, that goes into the municipal budget, and that's fine, but the regional roads go back to local self-government, and it says -- you have a profit tax, so you can compensate for that. Okay. The primary health care plan is to return to the local level, and yes, you have a profit tax, you can compensate for that. Jubilee education awards, paid out of the municipal budget, so yes, you have a profit tax, you can do that. Now, some taxes that no longer go into the municipal budget are lifted. Yeah, now you can compensate for that with a profit tax. It's obviously some magical tax, since I, as far as I'm working in local self-government, and as far as I know, he would have to multiple one ten times, in order for us to be able to make all of these accusations that the municipalities are increasingly adding to pay in relation to those incomes we have. Unemployment is growing, incomes are getting smaller, not to mention that in smaller municipalities, there is probably not a lot of employees and in principle, as far as these smaller local self-government are concerned, that income is not something significant. But the ones I talked about earlier are very important. Let me just say it one more time. So the burden of the crisis is borne by small local self-government, small cities and municipalities, and in this respect the economy will not pay less, it will pay the same or more, and we have additional funds in the republican budget again. The municipality must also plan to invest in health care in education, in police stations in fire stations, because the crisis, the state cannot influence it, cannot give funds, and municipalities must manage for themselves. When there's a fire, we have to organize good fire departments, we have to invest funds in building new, reconstructing, buying vehicles, buying health equipment, reconstructing school facilities. If we think that our citizens stay in local self-governments, we move, we have to leave them homes of health, we have to leave them schools, we have to work on it. So, just please, don't dig the local self-government. Take care of it, don't put them in an even worse vasal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1648	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1649	Thank you. In order to specify the answer to this question, first of all, as regards the change of this first member, it was only changed to comply with the amendments to the Budgetary System Act. So, all these revenues that have been mentioned so far have been income from local self-government and remain revenues from local self-government, therefore, and compensation for the use of building land and all that you have read. This member has only been amended to be in line with the amendments to the Budgetary System Act, because we've specified some things about fees and fees. So that leaves local income. What's changing about local income? Companies for craft shops, entrepreneurs and small businesses are abolished and another number of local, municipal taxis are abolished, some of which are not charged in all cities but these two are charged in all cities and I mention them. We have estimated that disbursement of the economy on this basis and because of the restriction of some firms for medium and large enterprises will be around four billion dinars. But given that the revenues of local self-government based on 80% of the losses passed on to profits and transfers increased compared to the previous period by 45 billion compared to the situation a year ago, we felt that we should now go with a more rational tax system. I must say that we have abolished 12 local taxis, five combined republican-locals, and even 121 republics. So, most of all, we've abolished Republic cabs, not local cabs. I also advocated all of what you said, for decentralisation and for strengthening local self-government, but it turned out in the first few months of this year, whether because of the election campaign, it is likely that some or some of the expenditures for employment, salaries and some of the expenditure not related to capital investments, which are not related to the development of municipalities, have been raised. This is why we want to better control these types of expenditure in local self-government in the coming period, so that the amendments to the Budgetary System Act have made it mandatory for municipalities to seek consent for the number of employees in the adoption of the budget for the following year, to verify that it is in accordance with the law and the mass of salaries. We want to control these things so that there is no excessive employment of the administration and the general spending of this money for the development of municipalities, so to speak, of municipal bureaucracy, whatever it is. It doesn't have to be just a community, it has to be agencies, public enterprises, municipal, in municipalities. Also, in the next period, we will have insight into the subsidies given at the bar. Some are certainly justified, some may not. We're not gonna control the rest of this. Of course, you don't have to. Local administrations need to determine on their own what they're going to build, what capital investments they're going to have, but as far as mass, profit, in general in the state, that the Treasury has to control. You asked – why have we given us the opportunity to charge more than the tenfold in some cases? Because it was asked for by a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. At our meeting with them, they said that there are some smaller municipalities that depend significantly on the collection of companies from some large enterprises, such as mines or cements. They said that if it only limited to a tenfold amount, they would lose a significant amount of income. I know this is not the right solution, but we have accepted this proposal from the Permanent Conference of Cities that, in exceptional cases, we can give consent to the payment of the company and over the amount that is ten times, but it will be exceptions, if it really is a small municipality that has no other sources of income, and we will permanently resolve this issue through the change of the Property Tax Act. The permanent solution is that the property tax for legal persons is calculated on a real tax basis, not on book value, as it is today. Today's property tax for legal persons is not charged not the way it's done in other countries, and that's what we have to do. So the company was sort of a substitute for that property tax. Instead of the company, the property tax should be and remains the key income of local self-government, but we will change the law in the coming months, with the idea that the property tax for legal persons should be similar to some practice, European, so that this basis is realistic and that larger companies would then pay a larger tax on property, and hence all the funds of 100% remain in local self-government. As far as road maintenance is concerned, I know that the Serbian Roads company has carried about 4.5 thousand kilometers of various former regional roads. By overcategorizing, they have now become local roads. It's an extra cost to local self-government. In addition to the regular transfer resulting from this law on the financing of local self-government, which is 33 billion this year, and according to the law next year will be 35.5 billion, we will add to the budget some five billion dinars in order to maintain these routes that have been passed on to local self-government this year, therefore, those 4.5 thousand kilometers, with these funds not directly to the budgets of local self-government, but we will make a procedure to use it specifically for the maintenance of these roads towards km or towards the surface of these roads in certain municipalities, suggesting that fewer municipalities should be grouped, because they do not have all these businesses that can maintain these roads and to make some strategy how to operate to maintain these roads. Of course, the alternative is to increase funds to the Serbian Ways, so that they maintain it. I think it's better for local self-government to do it themselves, but to get some funding for it. There are some roads that were once categorized as regional and not for years or even decades maintained, because when you have one company, it can't reach 170 municipalities, or I don't know how many of them there are already, that it does it right. Better to give the municipalities those funds, but it will be dedicated and only for that. So we're going to define it in law, so the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance transfers it for use and it's going to be controlled that it can't go for anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1650	The word has Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1651	I just wanted to thank you for the answer and say that I think it's finally about time, if it hasn't already been over, for system-based problem-solving, to deal with one quality way rather than ad hoc problem-solving local self-government. Exactly what you said about how much it imposes, getting back at some part of the funds to local self-government so that they could manage and that the whole system could work. There's no philosophy here, we have to go to decentralisation and strengthen the role of local self-government. There's nothing to make up or anything. There are perfect systems that work in Europe. For example, in Norway, where I've been, it really works great, and if some of the demands of local self-government are well explained by the ministries and so on, it can all be realized. I appeal once again, I hope that this will not be in the future, that political similarities will not be a basic criterion for the organisation to give funds to local self-governments and that somewhere local self-governments to build local roads are defined a large part of the funds for some regional projects because municipalities are not political-like, are not in the same political party, as was the case with the former regime in the previous period that there are no dinar funds. I would also refer to these transfers, where the local self-government transfer situation was criminal, at least in the previous period, and now it's changed. Anyway, it's the only way to regulate these transfers, it's a law, not a regulation, as it used to be, and I think, hopefully, in your own words, that this will change in the future. We're not supposed to stop at this, we're supposed to work, which means we're strengthening local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1652	The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, it is evident that Serbia today is in an extremely difficult financial situation and it really is necessary to stop the practice of pushing problems under the carpet, but it is already necessary to face these problems and solve them, however painful it is. Given the difficult conditions in which the economy operates, it was necessary to bring in a series of measures that would create a favourable climate for innovation, for further investment, and therefore for employment. The proposed laws reduce the cost of the economy, which facilitates its business. It decreases significantly, i.e. discharging craftsmen and small and medium - sized enterprises in which a large number of people work today. For example, since October 1st, the craftsmen will not be able to pay the company's rent and advertising tax, which will bring many to this time of crisis savings that they will be able to use either for profit payments or for new investments. Easier is expected in agriculture, which is very important, because agriculture is the one that can employ a large number of our citizens. Today every job, primarily in the private sector, is worth the gold. On the one hand, we need to create such a favourable and competitive climate for the arrival of large foreign investors, and not to let an investor come to Serbia with a desire to open a factory here and hire our people and face great bureaucracy and administration, simply turn around and run away with his head regardless. On the other hand, it is necessary to enable our craftsmen and entrepreneurs to successfully operate, expand their production, employ new workers. We need to find a way to motivate and encourage young people to start their own business, as well as those from the gray economy to move into legal flows. Folkly speaking, today a hat should be taken off to anyone who in Serbia has his own private business and thus earns money for his family. They pay taxes, pay contributions to health insurance, pension insurance, they're not okay in front of the social work center looking for some kind of help. It is our duty and obligation to help them to develop their work and to live well and politely from it, not to literally sit on their backs and peel off their skins with all kinds of and different attitudes. I'm not saying this by heart, these are exactly the measures the government has proposed have been looking for both craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the Covin with whom I've spoken many times. It would be a pleasure for me to meet them again after the adoption of these laws and tell them that someone heard them and respected their demands. That is why I support the proposed measures and I sincerely hope that this is a good start to facing reality and system-based solving of burning problems. There are no problems that can't be solved if you work hard, courageously, and teamly, and this government has just set off – and worth it, and bravely, and teamly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1654	The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1655	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I will talk about budget rebalancing, about measures from the set of laws, from one aspect that may be a little different, but I will speak from the perspective of those who are employed in production, therefore, in the real sector. I will talk about those who create a new value, a new product and most expected to fill the budget. The projected rebalancing is the government for what time has it shown that all those pre-election promises that we had little faith in are, in principle, insane joy, and that, first of all, the rationalization of employees in the state administration has nothing. Now someone can ask the question – why should I, in principle, represent the interests of all employees, talk about the need to rationalise employees in the state administration and the public sector? But yeah, I'm talking about it because I just don't agree to collective suicide. In fact, none of the 550,000 public sector employees, of whom the state administration accounts for 4.5%, will not be fired with planned measures and budgets. Not only is he not going to get fired, they were told, although with an apology, that their salary will not grow according to the planned dynamics, but it will only grow 2%. Although everyone knows it's an increase in the marketing trick. If you have double-digit inflation, this increase doesn't matter much. I have to pick up who knows which way, no matter how populist it may seem to someone, but it's really not populist, to remind that most of the employees in the production live at a minimum of existence. I ask the question – is 550,000 of those who lost their jobs in 2008 since the start of the economic crisis, are they less important to the state? It seems so, because this confirms a budget rebalance that will absolutely not lead to investments in Serbia, will not lead to job creation. Therefore, it is certain that these 550,000, or millions of those unemployed, are citizens of the second order. Most of the new jobs in the previous period were opened right in agencies, offices and directors. It's completely populist. Now the government and the budget promoter come out with information that no one who worked in the agencies will lose their jobs, but that they will be moved to new jobs. However, they won't have the hundreds of thousands of profits they've earned so far, but I'm sure there won't be any income for one employee in Jumka or another factory. With Minister Dinkic, speaking of "Sartid", I had, let me call her a polemic, where Minister Dinkic said it was much more favourable for the state and the budget that "Sartid" does not work, and that workers of Sartid go home and wait for a better time for "Sartid" and that the state pays out of the budget. This time the figure of 60,000 dinars was mentioned, I checked that figure not 60,000 in terms of profit, but 25,000 dinars. Minister Dinkic, I have one proposal, which is that all those who worked in agencies, institutions, directorates, who know how they came to those jobs, in principle employees at Sartid, go home, and that the state pays them out of the budget for 25,000 dinars, because I completely agree with you and the government. We have to prevent layoffs. I'm sure I'm not the kind of guy who's gonna advocate layoffs. Please respond to this proposal. As for the payment of 13 pensions, in any case, in the nature of my job, I can't be against helping our most vulnerable part of the population, but in any case I can ask a question – how long will we do social giving in this way? For a long time, it's been working somewhere from five, six, seven years, asking a question of social cards, individual social cards, family social cards. We'll pay 13 pensions, I'm absolutely sure, a small percentage of our oldest citizens, who won't, who don't deserve to get 16,000 dinars because they have assets that make a certain profit. In doing so, a large number of the oldest, with 15,001 dinars, will remain beyond this aid, and you can't tell me that all those who receive 15,001 dinars are in a better economic situation. In the end, she'd look back at the taxi lift. Since I come from practice, as I like to say, out of life, this pompously announced suspension of taxis and the dispensation of the economy in practice basically means abolishing one or two taxes per particular enterprise. In other things, in all the speeches of the businessmen and the praise or ingratification of the suspension of the taxis, it is only about the concrete result and the help of this abolition, which is the company's. The only thing I see well at taking a taxi is the fact that we finally got a list of all the things we've been paying for all these years, and we had no idea it existed at all. If anyone had asked someone from the government, from the governing structure before, say, a month ago, that we're paying all the taxes, I don't think there would have been a single man who could taxively count what taxes and taxes are paid by citizens. I'm going to give you a personal example, dating back to Friday. Namely, I was born in BiH, I'm getting a copy from the MKR from Bosnia, still. That's a copy I got without a single dinar of compensation within a day, very expedient. Then I went to my country, to my Sava Veneto municipality, and I wanted to verify a copy of the MKR. That overa copy from the MKR costs, a republican administrative fee, 960 dinars. So I have these payments and the municipal tax is 210 dinars. So for an overa list of papers, a copy of the MKR, I paid 1170 dinars. About the reliefs we've been given by removing the tax on keeping exotic animals, the few that touch it. Personally, I don't think that tax should have been abolished. So whoever wants to hold an alligator and a python in his apartment and can afford to pay a fee. As I believe the suspension of the raft tax is also wrong. Those who have rafts take the most beautiful part of one city. They need to pay. In the end line, pollution and dirt has been increased. They're supposed to pay those taxes. So, with all the proposed measures and budget rebalance, unfortunately for me, there will be no improvement in the position of employees, there will be no opening of new jobs. In my deep conviction, not that there will be no opening, there will be closure, or new layoffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1656	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1657	You started with unfulfilled promises. I just have to say that we in the pre-election campaign and in the period that preceded it kept saying that Serbia has a huge number of parafiscal duties that have been created as a result of a weak state, i.e. a weak finance ministry within that state. It's not normal for us to have over 200 parafiscal charges that are actually taxes and plus other fees that have a total of 380. That's why we decided to suspend the permanent 138 parafiscal duties. Someone will say, like you, that it's nothing special. I'm just asking-- why didn't somebody else do it before that? Why didn't someone else do it before this government? Has anyone ever abolished a set of laws suddenly 138 taxes to the economy and citizens? It's nobody. No one ever since I remembered. Maybe he did, I don't know, in the 1990s, but I'm sure nobody made a cab like this. That cutting cab has one effect. It is a total of 10 billion dinars of redundancy and citizens. Are we done with this? No, because the rest are, as you say, some of the fees from different institutions I talked about yesterday. Let's just say you mentioned a charge for an overture of a copy from the MKR. There are such different municipal, republican fees yet, but we, the Budgetary System Act, gave the rule that the tax cannot be charged untraceable, that it must be equivalent to the service actually performed and that all those who charge those fees in the future must make their pricers a real situation, real costs at the latest within a month of the day of the adoption of this law. These new prices must be delivered for review and approval by the Ministry of Finance. That was never the case. So far, anyone could have done what he wanted to do with those prices. So some of them are certainly baseless and expensive. We have a deadline, because there's a lot of such prices, until March 31st next year to check the reality of these prices and give consent to them or not to approve them. If we don't approve a price list, anyone, from locals to republics, by March 31st, it stops valid, and we only approve those who are real. So, in addition to abolishing these 138 taxis since October 1st that we are talking about yesterday and today, in the next period there will be a reduction in the prices of some fees, i.e. their appraisal of real costs. Everywhere there, I've already said that, I'll repeat, where these fees are determined as a percentage of something will be disabled. It has to be a real price for a service that can be measured, and it can't depend on who's looking for that service, but how much does it cost for someone who works on the counter to do that service or, if it's not a counter, the administration. Also, there won't be any small worth of money for the citizens. I know that some citizens may not even know that registering cars in some cities will cost up to 4,000 dinars, but it does mean a lot of people. They'll spend the most money in Paracino, because they were for some reason the biggest local utility car registration fee. There are cities where it wasn't like that, so that's going to be less cheap. We abolished four fees that were part of a car registration fee completely and limited one. It's this communal tax for motor vehicles. It's only going to be paid on one payment instead of 12, as far as it's going to be today, because it's just amazing. We have a lot more problems like this in other places, but this was one visible problem, every citizen who has a car had 12 tickets to fill in to register the car. Since October 1st, it'll be possible with one and it'll be cheaper registration. We will do with the tax administration of similar changes, to pay taxes and contributions next year, we will see exactly when we can prepare the information system and with colleagues from pension insurance and social security, to make a system for one payment and one bill to pay taxes and contributions to salaries. Now it seems to be in seven accounts, which is completely irrational. As for your remarks on the position that we will not fire employees in the public sector under recession conditions, I will tell you why we decided to do so. First, because we have established that our state of Serbia, unfortunately, does not have adequate budget statistics and that there is no guarantee that, if we fire someone with legal severance today, they will not find a job elsewhere in the country tomorrow. It will take severance and will be hired elsewhere, because the state of Serbia today, it is sad but true, does not have the right records of all the employees financed from the budget from local to republican levels. We have a complete record of only the Republic Government, in part of the public service, and we have a record of all the employees in the education, because they were introduced into the vault system as long as I was the finance minister in the last period of 2005-2006. That's when he stops with the activity. My successor did not continue what I started in 2005. We've introduced education. There was a plan to introduce health care, to introduce everyone, but no one was introduced. So we don't know exactly how much. If they were to ask me now if the state of Serbia knows how many employees there are in an agency, what are their salaries, I would have to ask them and trust their report, because we don't have to press the computer key to get that state. We are now going to introduce this law for the entire country, from locals, the provinces, to the Republic. Today, in 2012, budget records, budget statistics do not exist. That's why all these social programs weren't effective in the past. They were not only effective for the administration, but also for employees of these state or former social firms. I will no longer approve of social programs, and I have told my people at the college, for the so-called surplus workers in a social firm, even if it was Jumko or "14 October", if we do not know the final solution for the company, that the social programme for a number of workers is reportedly in the restructuring process to facilitate business costs, and then someone else is employed in the meantime. It's like a bottomless hole. So until we know exactly, if it's October 14th, who's the strategic partner and who's investing in October 14th, we won't give the dinar a social programme for anyone. It's cheaper for us not to give up money for the social program and for those people to receive even that subsidy, but to get the severance money that's expensive, and to get somebody back to work tomorrow, so we have to pay again for the social program. That system would be ineffective. Did he help anything? He only helped in cases where there was a permanent solution to the problem of extra employees, such as the flag, such as any factory that found a good buyer or a good strategic partner. So, if a permanent solution is found, yes, the social programme is necessary and necessary. But if the status remains this socio-state, the state is now, there's no point in giving social programs unless the company records profits, and it would improve the conditions of its business. All those who have losses, there's no point in giving money for social programs, because it's a waste of money without effects, unfortunately. If you ask me if the extra employees in the administration will stay forever, then they won't. The moment we solve the issue of the record, and we'll solve it in the coming year, because it's a matter of information technology, of introducing it into a database, it's not some astronomical operation, but it doesn't exist now and it needs Serbian citizens to know that it doesn't exist fully today. The other thing is, when we get out of the recession, because if we fire someone now from the state, they won't find a job anywhere because they can't even find people who don't have a job, who never had a job, it's hard to find a job today. Since it's hard to find a job, then it's cheaper not to pay money for social programs, but I agree with your proposal to consider that if we have a surplus in the administration that some of us are sent home with a reduced salary while this process is going on. It's an absolutely good proposal, and I'm going to think very carefully about it, because if that rule applies to manufacturing workers, why shouldn't it apply to the administration? That's where I agree with you. So, not to be fired, but not to sit down, to keep the rooms and offices there closed, they could be on some sort of pay-as-you-go fee, by the law, for a while. That's a good suggestion. As for "The Iron" that you mentioned and asked an earlier parliamentary question, we are entering negotiations next week with a potential partner from the Russian Federation for "The Iron". I hope that we will end these talks within a relatively short period, because we also care that "The Iron" is working as soon as possible, given that it has affected even from 12% of the total value of Serbian exports and 5% of the industrial production has been produced by the Smederjev Irons. So it is a strategically important production capacity for Serbia and that is why we will speed up the negotiations as quickly as possible, so that "The Irons" can be launched as soon as possible. I'm staying with what I said, we're looking for someone who has the ability to sell iron products, who has the ability to invest in improving technology and producing some higher-grade products than adding value, that he invests and that the state helps. Anyway, we're going officially next week into these talks and we're going to include, at a stage when it's necessary and possible, and representatives of the union. It's meant as much as in any other big process. I must say that it is precisely because of the Ironworks that the external trade balance of Serbia has deteriorated further this year and that the current balance of payments deficit will reach nearly 10% of GDP, which has not happened for many years, since it has always been about 6% to 7% of the last years. This year will deteriorate and the minus will be as much as 10% of GDP, so we will, unfortunately, have the worst data this year, along with this huge budget deficit and public debt. Those were the reasons we've now intervened to turn this thing around in the economy. But what's good news is that Fiat has taken its car production seriously in Kragujevac. By the end of this year, 30,000 cars will be produced. The next year's plan is between 140,000 and 160,000 cars. It is traffic in the next year of two billion euros. It will be the biggest contribution to Serbia's growth in exports in the coming year. If we succeed, and I believe that we will be able to find a partner and for "The Iron" with the launch of these two capacities, we will significantly improve all our balance sheet data, especially given that "Fiyat" has a large network of suppliers, and that many companies in Serbia depend on co-operation with "The Iron". So these two companies have great importance for other producers in Serbia as well. Finally, you criticized that we abolished the fees for holding domestic and exotic animals. I can agree with you for alligators and pythons, but I don't know how many citizens of Serbia hold it. Many people have cats, dogs, and they've paid taxes for their vaccination. Why would they do that? If it's their pleasure, I don't think the local self-government will fail, the ones who charged it. A lot of people aren't here to ask a colleague from Chattina, I doubt there's a tax charge. This is mainly charged in Belgrade, perhaps in other major cities, and I think it is a good measure to support those who love pets, I mean domestic animals above all, but since that category is common then these others are released, and they are rare. Another thing, as far as restaurants and rafts are concerned, it's not just those who hold discotheques in Belgrade and Novi Sad. You have a lot of those soybeans, there are as many as a thousand people who have it in Belgrade, Novi Sad and other cities. Why would they pay taxes on those rafts? So it's not just restaurants, rafts, but generally all these water objects that I don't know 10, 15, 20 square meters of each, if you ever went there to see. There's no reason for them to pay a tax, because that's what they get into the basics of property tax. Why would they pay an abortion tax and a property tax? As far as the restaurant is concerned, not all of them are the same. There are these restaurants, rafts along Serbian rivers in many cities, but these people do not have very much income. I think it's a good thing we're releasing these cabs, and your opinion is to say what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1658	Thank you. Mrs. Savic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1659	I thank you for your very comprehensive response, and I hope you will first and foremost accept this proposal regarding these agency and office employees. What is the essence of my presentation would be one appeal to you, to stop experimenting with Serbian citizens. We're always part of some experiment. It's also the fact that so many taxis are being imposed, and now it's safe to ask a question that introduced all these accusations. Now suddenly no one knows who the imposition is, and in doing so, we have a government that's been made up of the same people for 10 and more years with now a change in the entry of the Progressive Party into the government. As far as the agency is concerned, it's the same kind of experiment. So, at the moment the agencies were introduced, what I can claim to be the trade unions were immediately reacting and pointing to the execution of so many agencies. So the experiment was done, failed, spent billions and nothing. So I ask the question and responsibilities of all those experimenting with Serbian citizens, not asking for the price of this experiment. So the responsibility must exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1660	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1661	The Honorable Chairman, members of the government, fellow MPs, today's proposal and yesterday's debate from the SNS's point of view deserves one support in the idea of having one proposal to consolidate public finances and one of the hardest parts that initially represented the start of the restructuring of the public sector. In previous discussions, we have heard exactly what hurts us most, and that is a large number of public sector employees. The problem of public sector employees has been the problem for the last 10 years. In 2001, we had about eight thousand employees, and today that figure is over 25 thousand. It is precisely for the reason Minister Dinkic spoke of, since there is no record of public sector employees, that is one of the reasons we should ask ourselves, which is why we have come into this situation in the first place to make this budget rebalance. So life in economic terms didn't start today. We listened to the 2012 draft budget in December 2011 where the then prime minister said the budget was electoral. Well, in 2011 for the 201s budget, when he adopted, we heard that the budget was social. Well, in 201, 2009 they said the budget was investment, and in 2009, the same Prime Minister Cvetkovic created a budget that simply did not predict the effects of the economic crisis. Therefore, the whole situation in which we are now is due to the unrealistic budget creation in the last four years in which this government has simply not participated. It's in the past, except for the unreal creation of the budget, and we had a part of the uncontrollable consumption. This uncontrollable consumption has been seen in many forms. First of all, the formation of unnecessary agencies, but also the immaculate borrowing through certain types of credit and the formation of certain agencies. We had the largest number of agencies formed from the environment, some formed for a reason, some without, but now we have the best example of unreal spending of funds, and that's through the Environmental Protection Fund. No matter who the minister was, he was also the chairman of the board of directors of this fund. He was simply in a position to spend his budget under the Environmental Protection Act. The budget grew more and more each year for certain needs. I'll remind you on the basis of the 2011 DRI report he made to the fund. I'm going to quote it for the simple reason I don't want to paraphrase, so it doesn't turn out that we've been making statements that aren't appropriate. In those quotes, you'll see how it was done with that fund, whether it was overauthority or whether it was what it was. systemic corruption. In fact, the law allowed and opened the possibility of uncontrollable budget spending. Recommendations mean DRI, page 232,234, otherwise a public document which you can download on the DRI site says – It is recommended to the Environmental Protection Fund to define, by means of an internal act, the organisation of an accounting system of internal control of the person responsible for the legality, regularity and assembling of documents. I don't understand the legality, in terms of finance, the economists know that and the auditors will know what that means. Then under two – The expenditure and expenditure shall be planned and carried out in accordance with Article 29. The law on the budgetary system and the structure of the context prescribed by the Regulation on classification standards. That means she wasn't here. Under three – To record in business books and provide the necessary documentation of the Treasury Administration and to run the main book of the Ministry on the amounts of donations received in foreign currency. That means it wasn't there when the auditor says it needs to be done. Under four – The implementation of public competitions for the allocation of funds shall be carried out in accordance with the Regulation on the conditions to be met by beneficiaries of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment, the conditions and means of allocation of funds, criteria and assessment criteria for the allocation of funds on the means of monitoring the use of funds and agreed rights and obligations. Under five – For the allocation of funds outside the public competition in accordance with Article 18(4). The Fund Act shall only be implemented for the purposes of Article 17. Under six – To commit to a Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia entrusted with professional lending operations to carry out a list of approved loans and to submit a report to the List of the Environmental Protection Fund to be agreed with its accounting records of the corresponding recording and alignment of the situation with the Treasury Administration. Obviously, the fund did not simply have any communication with the Treasury, nor did it have a concerted state, nor did it have any relation to the Environmental Protection Fund. So we get the result that in the 2012 budget, we have certain resources that have given the Director of the Fund and the President of the Management Board the opportunity in 2012 to approve 5.5 billion dinars for energy efficiency projects, to sign contracts with the business banks that will give it loans, meaning that, in accordance with energy efficiency, Serbian citizens change the windows at a certain favourable interest rate, that is below one. And under two, about 2.5 billion dinars to give the possibility of co-financing, it means in the area of construction. Now I'm asking you if it's the Environmental Protection Fund, if it's the priority of spending in green economies and creating a commitment to the state, or the government that founded this fund of 5.5 billion dinars. We had a heated debate on the Committee on Environmental Protection with the presidents, representatives of opposition parties, where they are absolutely right to doubt whether the environmental funds, so-called. "green dinar", i.e. whether the funds that will be spent for environmental project fees will be used for those purposes. As we can see, the Environment Fund did not spend on these purposes, and now we have a situation where commitments are made that will take two years for the Fund to pay only those expenditures. Therefore, at this point, we are forced as Government to make proposals, i.e. as a congregational majority, to support the government's proposal, that part of the funds that has been taken over as part of the expenditure and the commitment that must be paid to budget users to go on a proposal to shut down such a fund. This is ultimately a picture of business in the last four years of the previous government, and what is possible is given through certain legal acts that we call "systemic corruption", which are not brought into that section relating to secondary, or sublegal regulation. This sub-legislative regulation was supposed to regulate, precisely these regulations, in which way the funds would be spent, and that someone had to do so and, if there was a non-intentional spending, to answer. That is why we now have about the advertising, in terms of opposition representatives, that much has been done in the field of the environment, that much has been given and that, in the end, by shutting down certain, i.e. by restructuring public administration in this area, we want to disrupt all of this. Of course, it was not our goal and of course Mr Dinkic, as an authorised negotiator, gave us a very good solution in that financial sense. In this sense, when we need to speak on the income side of this proposal itself, it is up to the government to create an environment in which we will attract foreign direct investment. I'll tell you that the previous government and in that part of these sublegal acts, that is, speeding up the necessary documentation for the implementation of certain investment facilities, has done very little. We have wind parks that wait five years to get approval for construction and use permits, we have three years to obtain documentation at the level of building renewables facilities, a mini hydropower plant, and that is all that in some way creates one bad environment for any investment and in the area of energy efficiency of renewable energy sources and environmental protection in general come into our Serbia and invest these funds. It is sad that we possess these potentials, and we cannot put them in the function of our investments in an adequate way, that is, the possibility of really making economic progress. What I wanted to mention more in terms of the current situation, this is one real cross-section that no government has given so far. In a way, she's always hiding what real costs are, showing it like that in a nicer light, and you know when you're pushing a lot of stuff under the carpet, then eventually it's all got to come out on a big wave that you might not know where it's going to lead you. Now comes the moment when these public finances must be united and put under one cap and as such create one starting basis for the future, or what we do. What the SNS insisted in the campaign itself, we need to pass a new law on public procurement. We need to create an environment for foreign, direct investments and we need to solve systemic corruption. In this chain of solving all these problems, who will find himself overrun by the law, and who will find himself part of a certain legal regulation and was allowed to carry out certain public procurement in one legal way, where they will only give a monopoly to certain companies to deal with waste management or only certain companies to deal with building certain facilities? That time will show, after all, there are people who are tasked in this country to work. What I wanted to mention, in the end, is that this first step is actually the restructuring of the public sector and the hardest step. So, if we do the exact number and number of employees, and if we really accept these opposition proposals to open up the possibility that certain employees do not have to work in the public sector without having to make up for it, and we open up on the other hand the possibility of opening up small and medium-sized enterprises, one stimulating policy, maybe the public sector people will go to this private sector, which will be especially good for all of us. The first thing we will increase this public spending, i.e. reduce public debt and create a better environment for some new investments, but not only foreign investors, but also our domestic ones. In the end, it should be said, this government should go in the direction of providing opportunities for our large companies to be able to help solve public debt through certain projects of social responsibility, meaning that we put a common, simple, whole society into office. All of our desires that we seek, which is to become an efficient society, not only in economic terms, but in this operational, organisational, that we can really solve the issue of documentation and technical solutions that are obviously our main obstacle to economic growth. On the Committee on Economic Affairs, Trade, Tourism and Energy, we had amendments and additions to the Law on Tourism, Privatisation and Energy. There were really changes and additions given by one good solution to the suspension of taxis and fees, which were not respected anywhere, and in the main one, they did not even represent a large volume. They presented a great burden when small businesses took an estimated list of their complete obligations in the field of tourism, in the area of economy in general, in the area of energy. So, in the end, we think that this proposal, as it is given in the form of this set of laws, is justified in this way, although the opposition is surprised and perhaps, in some way, feels a little uninformed, but through this set of laws you can see that only by such a cut of compensation in one legislative proposal and by such restructuring, i.e. by unifying public finances you can only have success. Of course, those results won't be great at first, but one step like this is necessary for such a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1662	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1663	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament in this set of 23 laws within this first point, I will direct my discussion to the laws relating to environmental protection. These are laws on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, amending the Law on the termination of the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund and the Law amending the Chemical Act. It's not very popular, I see, to talk about environmentalism today, but I just have to do it, first that I'm president of the Committee on Environmental Protection, and second that I'm someone who's really one big part of his life dedicated to this fight and I think that's something that needs to be talked about in public. In the past four years for the mandate of the last government, the DSS parliamentary group has submitted at least 30 amendments to the issue, the agency and it are completely unnecessary. All these amendments were properly rejected, the agencies produced and survived. They had nothing to do, but they lived and formed. My great surprise and truly great sadness is that the ruling parties, or government, did not better balance what was to be left in the context of environmental protection and what was really to be deleted. I fully understand your position that you are in an unexposed situation, that the budget is empty and that you have to put some order into it, but I just want to say that the Environment Fund is an institution that was created in 2006 at the time of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica and created really in the best interest of the principle that the polluter pays. It's the best environmental principle ever launched in this country, and it's a fund created by the need for polluters to be paid directly, to see that green dinar, the fund, and on the other hand, it had to make sure that all projects within the green economy, projects in the protection of the environment, in some ways promote them, that they could work. I am very sorry that it has come to this great idea and indeed one institution, which has done its job very well, has been abolished because it has created this scandal with the spending of money without any limit, that the fund owes 5.8 billion, 874 million, as I recall, that the projects that this fund has poored to the point that it can pay only wages by the end of the year and lead to it being the first on the list of those to be abolished. They're really weird, and let's just say they're building a solar bicycle terminal. I'm just asking what it is, where these citizens have been filling their bikes so far, if we haven't had this solar terminal yet? It's simple, the shame is even to say that 90 million from the Fund for 2012 for promotional activities that were mostly run by the "Blic" newspaper, were given from this fund for songbooks, I suppose that the song "is getting sick" from that songbook, that the Association for Me Break got 1.35 million for some kind of research. So it has nothing to do with the green economy. Please think about it. Do not put an end to a good institution for what was done in it. There are services in this country, there are institutions in this country to deal with. I really don't have any sentimentality in that sense. Something important for environmental science needs to stay, and if someone else hasn't worked in favor of it, so you know who's working on it. On the other hand, when you end this fund, you'll come to a terrible one big legal vacuum, because they stay at a bar such funds, because there's a province that has such a fund. The Nature Protection Act is still in force, some other laws still apply, the Waste Management Act, and they all have to change in that direction. Don't cancel the fund, stop, let's say, I'll suggest without a hint of sentimentality, the Environmental Protection Agency. You have the Institute for Environmental Protection, which is fantastic, which is at the level of all European institutions, which is completely humiliated and downgraded to the level of some grocery store where licenses are issued for everything and everything and asking investors – don't issue any more of these permits, destroy all of this little nature. On the other hand, I'm going to move on to the Law on ionizing radiation and nuclear security, which is very important. You're entering a legal vacuum because it's jurisdiction. You haven't changed the Nuclear Security Act. The Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for nuclear security. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is responsible for ionising radiation. So, change the Ministry Act so you can do something about it. On the other hand, I want to comment on something, and I would like it not to be put on the DSS to defend Serbia's nuclear facilities. It's the public company that we've hit the most and whose expenses we've talked about the most, but on the other hand, think about this thing. When Serbia's nuclear facilities are abolished as a public enterprise and translated into an office, they will be subject to the Law on Public Servants. This puts the citizens of Serbia at risk of nuclear security being cared for by those who will have 20,000 salaries. I'm not sure anyone will accept doing such important jobs, so many responsible jobs and so many dangerous jobs for that number. I'm just directing you to think about it. I have no intention of giving you advice in this regard because I neither represent Serbia's nuclear facilities nor that can be something I want to say. It's okay, you've abolished the fees, and that's okay, 16 fees in this area have been lifted, and that's totally fine, but I'm asking you to think about simply bringing the laws into contact, because the laws in the environment completely disagree. I don't have time to talk about chemicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1664	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1665	The chairman, respected representatives of the government, respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia, what we listen to yesterday, today and previous days in the media is one reality of Serbia, a record deficit in Serbia's budget, something that was known before, but I think it was also courage, on the one hand, of the new government, and the only possibility to bring that fact to the citizens. It is saddened that in the previous period, the knowledge of citizens has been diminished and the very sense of citizenship in which they are located, thinking that presenting a good picture and bringing out false or incorrect data can create a more positive environment. I come from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. It's a municipality of the city of Kiriste. I am very well aware of what every job in the territory of the municipality of Zitisto means. With that in mind, I would like to commend the abolition of these parafiscal duties, because very often people come up with a certain idea of starting their own business, and then they start asking what is needed and what is waiting for them in the coming period to realize their idea, and at a certain point and give up, because they can't simply create a picture of what is waiting for them all. On the other hand, we all cry out, especially in such municipalities, for investors, and then when they appear or come into a situation that we can't tell them what's waiting for them, or we can't meet certain conditions within a certain time frame, and the question is sometimes an organization and the very possibilities of people who are working to provide all that information. What I would especially welcome is the reorganisation of the Tax Administration which is mentioned and the possibility that the Tax Administration controls and those companies that are not registered, because in the previous period of the hairdresser, the owner of the grocery store, the butcher, there is no one who hasn't come to complain about the sentence – so the state actually punishes us, we register the company, we pay taxes and contributions, someone and we hire, but if nothing else, we hire ourselves, and then the inspections come to us, they control us, punish us, until someone else pays none of that. What the hairdressers would say is, they just put a comb and scissors in their pocket and go do it in their homes, without any obligation to the state. I also think it's extremely good that these people will primarily be warned, believe and know what their opportunities are for the state to help them register their activity. Also, I am aware of why the VAT rate is increasing, but I am also pleased that small and medium-sized enterprises will have the opportunity to choose from 1 January how VAT will be paid and that they will be able to make payment of VAT after the service they provide. Of course, it creates a prerequisite for 105,000 entrepreneurs in Serbia to choose how to make VAT payments. What I also welcome is the introduction of criminal pens to the state if it does not carry out certain obligations, because very often it was in that chain that the state was creating a problem in the collection of goods or services. What I would also welcome is that farmers, from the current five, will rise to 8% of VAT returns and will be paid directly to their account. I also think it's a good thing that a reduced VAT rate of 8% on food supplies is retained. What makes me particularly happy is that the VAT refund for baby equipment, because it's often just been talked about how Serbia is facing the problem of white plague, which is emptying our territories and this is one of the first recognizable and visible steps in recent times that will create the possibility of returning directly to those who buy that equipment part of the money, which refers to those who belong to so-called. The middle and lower classes of the population, because the adoption of parents or guardians should be up to 80,000 dinars in order for these conditions to be met and that is one of the measures that I most welcome with great satisfaction in this step of consolidation of the system when it comes to public finances. I therefore call on my colleagues, to support a realistic proposal that delivers concrete results and which is essentially the first step towards what needs to be done in public finances in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1666	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1667	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, as an MP whose first term of office is in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to believe that we will not continue with the practice of the previous call, given that I am surprised by the number of proposed laws on amendments and additions to significant laws brought together in a joint principled search. I think this prevents a quality debate on important laws that include a broad spectrum, which is extremely important for all citizens of Serbia, and we are their representatives in this home. As a result, I will limit my time to one or two laws, while my colleagues will discuss the other laws of this set. First of all, what I would point to is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. The increase in excise duty as one of the easier ways to charge the budget has been used several times in the previous period, let's say three times since 2008, and now we have a proposal for amendments to the excise duty, and I would like to impose an excise on liquid oil gas. The proposal to increase the excise duty on liquid oil gas is a direct blow to citizens' standards, given that an increasing number of drivers are using liquid oil gas. I need to draw attention to the fact that drivers don't choose liquid oil gas for the reason that it's greener fuel, which should be their primary reason, but precisely for a more affordable price. Also, a large number of citizens have invested, not small funds, to adapt their vehicles to the use of liquid oil gas, precisely because of lower costs, which is what we would use by increasing excise duties. That is why we believe that the excise on liquid oil gas should not increase to 30 dinars per kilogram, but should remain at 18 dinars per kilogram. If it is already necessary to increase certain excise duties, I think we could achieve this by increasing excise duties that can benefit in general from the health of our citizens, it is, say, tobacco or alcoholic beverages. It's better that there are excises more than excises that directly affect citizens' standards every day. For example, the level of excise duty on cigarettes from imports and cigarettes produced in the country can be immediately determined at a higher level. It is suggested here that it be tapered and going up to 45 dinars, maybe it's better to lift the excise on liquid oil gas, if it's necessary to replace it to be a higher excise on cigarettes. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Taxes and the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, I must admit that I was in principle aware that there are various unnecessary fiscal and parafiscal imposings, although I was once again surprised by the number when I saw how many were abolished. It is commendable that there is a will to help businesses most entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. I'd just like to point out that we need to think about medium-sized enterprises, and you ministers in your presentation have also pointed out that. For example, in the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government, the firm for medium-level legal persons is limited on an annual basis to two average salaries, while for large legal entities it is the highest of up to three average earnings per employee. If we know what number of employees refer to medium-sized enterprises, it's up to 250, and for a large 250 and up, I don't think there's any proportion in this relationship, so my proposal is that the firm for medium-sized enterprises is at the highest level to one average profit per employee. I would like to thank you for your attention, and I hope you will consider what I have brought forward, and, in general, my colleagues from the DSS parliamentary group. We'll file all of this through the amendments to the proposed laws, so thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1668	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1669	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at first I will take the opportunity to express a slight dissatisfaction because yesterday I received this invitation envelope. These days we have witnessed that an organization that calls itself the Pride Parade has announced that it has sent calls to all MPs at home for the Pride Parade. Apparently, they were not sent by mail and apparently not at our home addresses, but they arrived at the National Assembly. My dissatisfaction is not that the assembly was used to be the courier's service of an organization, which is most likely financed from tax revenues from the budget, and apparently we don't have any more than this. My dissatisfaction is that all organisations have no such opportunity to share their invitations to MPs in the same way on 6 October. As far as this call is concerned, I have to say publicly, if I come to them, it's going to be a big security risk, I'm going to have to come with 200 security officers. If they still want me to come there, I'm at their disposal along with my security detail. As far as these laws are concerned, I am also unhappy with the relationship of the former government to these laws. So by these laws, you're the only one laughing at a respected senior colleague, we're ironing your mistakes with these laws. One government sinned, owed the country, and the consequences of its rule and the consequences of these mistakes remain on others to iron. While we need to do this from the MPs' benches of the former authorities, we hear sharp comments and harsh criticism of what we do. These laws are preparations for budget rebalancing, and budget rebalance is needed because they have spent more than they have taken from the poor people. They increased the deficit for both deficits and current debt commitments they made this year to about 5 billion. So that's how the state left us those who are nagging us today and they want to say that they left the most well-ordered state with settled public finances, and let's see what they've actually left us and what we have to do to get rid of what they've done in the past. Public debt in the country is as much as we've heard 18 billion euros. The budget deficit is two billion. The commitments in the next three years based on the debt they made left us without a source of debt returns, for the next three years there are 11 billion. Today they are the very ones who rebel, members of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, whom I called with full right, not so long ago, "Mirko overindebted". The former government, by the people, by the common people, where poor people choose whether to eat breakfast, whether to eat lunch, and the vast majority choose three meals for dinner alone, the former government shared good and evil with the people by taking good for themselves, and leaving the people mostly evil. Since 2003, instead of political and economic reforms being carried out, that the system has changed, that Serbia has made an economic and economic system, we have mostly lived instead of the one in charge. The former government is ahead of this country's borrowing and in the last three and a half years, our debt has increased by more than seven billion, public debt. When we take on a real employee... Just you, former Defense Minister, laugh. Build another penthouse, so it'll be fine. In Serbia, production and consumption, accumulation and investment and exports and imports developed due to lack of reforms. Serbia spends one fifth more than it earns. So in Serbia, spending is more than 20% of production. The lack of these revenues, of course, were ironed by excessive borrowing abroad, when they sold everything they could sell. In Serbia, it was living off other people's assets and foreign goods. The public sector lived as it pleases and lived in private as it must. When there wasn't enough money from public income, you owed us. You said about - who's cutting them off, if we can't get enough of their taxes, and we're going to have that shortfall between the tax collection and what we can spend and make up for the excessive borrowing, and you've made the state a partner society, where you've done your private jobs out of public functions. The former government did not at one point look like a group of people who planted in the land of the logs and waited for the pig to sprout. (President: Please let's get back to the topic. I'm on the subject. I'm saying what is the product of tax policy, what is the product of excessive borrowing of the former government, and why today we have to change tax laws and increase VAT. Pretty much, that's what I'm talking about. What's the need for this today? Why is that necessary? Because of the results of the former government. If I can't say what led us to this difficult position, then I apologize. They used to complain to us here that we got them away from the IMF. The IMF took care of it during their government just so we could service the debts they made, and then when they saw how much they screwed up, the IMF hit its own feet on the buttocks and got out of Serbia. They also object that we are moving away, and I am saying everything they said, that we have distanced Serbia from the EU. If they had stayed, I don't know if Serbia would have entered the EU or if Belgrade would have entered the EU with a nearby environment. So, the result and merits that a given imperial government has given to the international community is a permit to fundamentally rob their people. It is clear that these laws should be supported. In the future, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration should be completed a little bit, so that those who exercise the control of taxpayers bear the same responsibility as taxpayers, so that if tax controls make a declaration that is of a political nature against a taxpayer and if that application falls, that the tax inspection also corresponds to the way in which the taxpayer corresponds. As for the VAT Act, of course I'll support it, but with one small reserve. I don't understand why they are, and I'm not even sure it's constitutional, why taxpayers are divided into two groups when they charge VAT. One of them will pay it, and the most of them are the amounts charged, and the other will pay it still at the invoiced value. So that's one small reserve. As far as VAT is concerned, I will support it, for the simple reason it improves from farmers the conditions under which they retain the tax rate. So far it was 5%, and now it's 8%. So they get it at the price of agricultural products. And so far, they've mostly been getting it, but in tax control, fearing the tax collectors, they've mostly said they didn't get it. Of course, I proposed an amendment in order for these farmers to open up accounts so that banks can in some way force themselves to open up accounts on the basis of a tax ruling on cadastrian income, so that those buying out their products can pay it to a certain account and farmers get that 8%. As for the Law on Administrative Taxes, finally find some law that abolishes certain tax obligations and other taxes, not just introduces them. Such taxis, we've seen and heard, there's more than 100. As for the Law on Income Tax, yesterday the minister said he would go for better, to improve. He said something that aroused the previous government. He said they'd cross-examination the property. I absolutely support it. I'd like to compare the assets, especially the functionor, the former regime's function, to compare with the revenues. Let's see, how is it possible that someone who became president of the university as a third-year university student who lived with a family in a 45 square-square apartment and who has so far been able to make 100,000 euros, how could someone have gotten to the property, so let's say a flat of more than 100 squares in the center of India, up to a 250 square-square penthouse? I think the former Defense Minister knows where it is, 250 square feet in the middle of India, where only the terrace is bigger than the previous apartment, so 65 square meters. How could the above-mentioned DS official have come to a house on the 500-square Tatar Hill, which he translated into a brother? It's that Tatar Hill where a house was taken and a certain Charic, a criminal who was bringing money into the country. How is it possible that this official has an apartment in Vienna? Of course, I'm talking about what the minister said yesterday that we'd compare and cross-examination of property and compare incomes and assets. If we chased Jajic over a house he could undoubtedly make, I'm not saying he didn't fool around, then I wonder how because of this much real estate, we're not going to chase down one DS official, if there's an apartment in Vienna and an uncle's house or a run in Putinci, with a closed-type pool, where's the water heating up all year? He needs to prove to us what income he made it from. Were those public revenues, were they public enterprises, where the hot water pool, which has been heating up all year? There are better conditions than Cavic. Just laugh. He's a member of your party's office. He's not my officer. I think it's funny to you and you think there's too little to do with any of your other party colleagues. So, he had such conditions with hot water, if he went to the Olympics, he'd be better than Cavic. Maybe he'll bring us some medals. Furthermore, there's a lot of participation in the winery. This is the restaurant he translated into his wife at the Outlet Center. So, what else does the D.A. need and what else does it take for all of us to support the finance minister seeking cross-examination of property, of course, in line with the revenues? So I will absolutely support his position to prevent these phenomena in future, because I believe that more than 20% of our public incomes have gone into hands and into private affairs, private property of the former government. Let me give you another example. This, gentlemen of the DS, former assistant minister of trade, this is his penthouse, you specialize in penthouse... (President: Mr. Risticevic, please let's get back to the topic one more time. I'm in the dark. So, I'm talking about funding local self-government, I'm talking about income tax, and that's why I'm saying that these laws need to be further improved, that we don't come into a position that certain public officials, so I support the finance minister, that certain public officials have a penthouse of 397 square feet, and he was the assistant of the minister of trade who used to be a minister of agriculture, so he was also an assistant and built, of course, a house of 500 square feet with a pool, those without a pool, look, I can't-- so, to examine the property of a clerk, whether he was acquired by public income, did this official hide a legal face that he owed over 20 and a few thousand tons of grain products... . (President: Mr. Risticevic, once again I ask you to return to the topic. I'm on the subject. (President: You are not on the subject. Please. I'm in the dark. So, I was talking about amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax. They'd like to be questioned, and that's what the minister said, were the revenues of the officials mentioned so much that they could earn to have this kind of property? In the end, I mean, despite these interruptions, we will, of course, support the fiscal tax law. Thank God someone cut them off. But I would like at least half of the costs that those who had those fiscal bills had to be imposed, if at least half the costs were compensated to those entrepreneurs, because that help would also be helpful. As far as funding for local self-government is concerned, there should be careful and give the finance minister the authority to insubordinate local self-government in a certain way deny certain transfers, since I have witnessed that in the last four years, the former republican government, which has passed on to the local government, has done almost nothing. She received an increased share of the salary tax and was mostly financed by expensive lunches - turned like pigs next to the water and only scratched her stomach, and money comes from the Ministry of Finance. I would like to see better control and that the finance minister, by appropriate law, ban a team of local self-governments above a certain level, not to spend hard-earned and kidnapped money on overpriced lunches. As for the protection against radiation and law, I would like the next law to ban that hard antenna system that is near Barajev, since peasants, and scientists say justifiably regret, that this radiation produced by this antenna system affects climate change in Serbia, and they say to God also the mental stability of people, and apparently, given this laughter, it also affects former ministers from the former government. As far as the Environment Fund is concerned, I will also support it, but I am dissatisfied that local self-government is not limited to the right to raise your fees to heaven for environmental protection. There are local self-governments that have increased that by 20 times. So, as far as this fund law is concerned, finally, someone does something and that money doesn't spill out the way it spills out. Also, it was said here that the ministry had been waiting for a permit for six months, and, for God's sake, some permits were granted in an hour, but not an hour, but an hour. As far as the Energy Act is concerned, I also agree that this should be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, since I am often interrupted, I must tell you that as poor as our people are, they want justice and bread, and perhaps more than bread wants to punish those who soullessly robbed this people, filling their pockets and their friends. In a certain way, this country and the public revenues have been taken from the hands of this people, and so I ask you all to make sure that the culprits of this heartless and unearthly robbery of the people are brought to justice and that in this way we return their country to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1670	Mr. Milovanovic, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Please sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1671	The President-in-Office, Honored Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament and People's Parliaments, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Rule 106, Article 107 and Article 109. Paragraph 1 of Article 105 says - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. In 19 minutes, the previous speaker spoke about the agenda point and you warned him three times. It is said in article 107 – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, as well as to bring about facts relating to the private life of others. The previous speaker addressed MP Dragan Sutanovac. In article 109, it is said - a reminder is given to the MP, now I am speaking to you, who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. I therefore demand that in the day of voting, the Assembly be made known about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1672	In voting day, the assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Veselinović, you wanted a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1673	I also wanted a replica, as the MP specifically addressed the MPs of the DS and quoted some of my statements from yesterday's presentation. On the other hand, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, or Rule 109, which concerns you and the fact that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. You were obliged, therefore, to point out the warning to the MP who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of issues that are not on the agenda. You have not uttered a warning, though you have warned the Messenger of the people two or three times. When it comes to evaluations and findings made by the MP, I think it speaks more of him and the MP group he is sitting in and that those sitting in this room and those watching this TV broadcast will be able to assess, but this seriously undermines the integrity of the National Assembly. The fact that the chairman allows the MP to make estimates that are a jargon of the street, which offends the dignity of former ministers, and I will remind you of one of his statements, where he says -- that ionising radiation has affected the mental state of former ministers. After that, the chairman, should you take away the word of the People's MP and give him the warning measure, or the distance measure, or the punishment that the Administrative Committee would impose? If we allow the opposition to be treated by the ministers, which we spoke about yesterday, and the MPs of the ruling coalition, with everything we have said about the way the session was scheduled, they will indeed dissipate the work of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1674	Time. I did not give a warning to the previous speaker because of this discussion, and I did not take away my word. Please, each of us has a responsibility for what he says in this people's congregation. Please, we all respect dignity together. In the future, I will have to, in order not to violate the Rules of Procedure, to apply the measures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly to the vacancy, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Election of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Nebojsa Beric and Ireni Aleksic elected from the electoral list Let's move Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, the Serbian Progressive Party, New Serbia, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurs of Serbia, the Coalition of the Association of Refugees in the Republic of Serbia, the Movement of Serbia, the National Peasant Party, the Bosniak People's Party, the Democratic Party of Macedonians, the Roma Party, the Movement of Vlach Unity, the Movement of Socialists, the Movement of Business Revival of Serbia, and Rajko Stevanovic, elected from the Election List of the United Regions of Serbia – Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic of the Electoral Commission, the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Nebojsa Beric, Irena Aleksic and Rajko Stevanovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and for the best of my knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia with the truth and justice. I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We continue to work on the agenda of the current session. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Let me inform you, there are two and a half minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1675	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, here are two days to discuss a set of fiscal laws, these fiscal laws are a proposal for a government measure to put an end to the fire in Serbian finances, in order to put an end to the fire in the Serbian economy and the Serbian economy created by the previous government. I also warn you that these measures will in no way solve the key problems of our economy and our economy, if our economy does not have that export policy. These measures, too, respected ministers, must provide answers or address certain problems, above all, inflation. If you remember, the budget predicted that inflation would be one-digit in the next period. As you said yourself by the end of the year, we expect double-digit inflation. The second thing these measures need to solve is the unemployment rate. You know well that Serbia currently has a 25% unemployment rate, and by the end of the year it is expected to be around 27%, which places us in the ranks of countries with the highest unemployment rate. Also, these measures need to solve the investment problem. Since our country has a net outflow of investment, and remember Mr. Minister's period when Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister, and you're finance minister, that we've had four to six billion investments a year, while right now, as I said, we have a net outflow of investments. Also, these measures should address the problem of gross social product, as you said the gross social product would be negative by the end of the year, and in the period when Prime Minister Kostunica was, and you minister, the gross social product grew by six to seven percent each year and Serbia was simply a financial miracle in Europe. What these measures also need to solve, and that is the deficit in the budget. It will be about 7% of gross social product or over 200 billion, and in the period when Vojislav Kostunica was in power, you remember that the International Monetary Fund only came here to drink coffee, so we escorted them as good hosts. And most importantly, it's a public debt that accounts for about 60% of gross social product. So when we look at these parameters, Mr. Minister, we see that our economy and our economy is one difficult patient, who takes a long, long time to recover. So, for the recovery of Serbia's economy and Serbia's economy, it takes a long period, because red light is on. So it's not five to twelve, it's twelve and fifteen. What we also expect from these measures is to dissipate the economy, because we need to run the economy. Serbia's economy is the only one that fills the Republic of Serbia's budget and in this sense we need to disburse obligations and citizens. Also, we expect you to provide favourable loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, normally for those companies that are export-oriented with favourable loans, with a long period of payment. I'll focus on two laws, it's the law on value added tax and the Excise Act. When it comes to the Tax Act on Extra Value, then we have to say that it's one extortionary measure. However, the measure must also follow countermeasures, since the base of the tax rate has been increased by 2%, from 18% to 20%. We expect you to cut labour taxes so that our product is competitive with other products. If you simply apply this measure without a job-free tax, you will thus, Mr. Minister, have less income than you expected. Many experts, Mr. Minister, say that this measure will most affect the poorest layer of the population, as the tide of food prices is expected to increase. The second law I'd like to talk about here is the Excise Act. My predecessors spoke, my distinguished colleagues, and what's also characteristic is that if you want to fill the budget normally, best to increase excise duties. As for some excises, you didn't react when it comes to gasoline and fuel, but when it comes to liquid oil gas, that's where you reacted, you raised 18 to 30%, and that's how you just hit all those car drivers, who turned on that liquid oil gas. We are aware of respected friends that these measures are necessary, and we are also aware that Serbia needs a new industrialisation. The Democratic Party of Serbia has offered a programme for the development of new industrialisation and we expect Mr. Ministers, that certain things from this development programme and you may look at it in your own programme. So, the DSS also thinks there is no economic development nor an increase in living standards without preserving territorial sovereignty and state integrity. In that context, we, the respected ministers, will treat the government as well as the government. The DSS MPs have offered certain amendments to this set of laws for this set of measures. The amendments are too much and talk about the essence of the problem. We want to help Serbia in this way, we want to help Serbia's economy, and we want to help this government as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1676	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. He's not here. The next speaker is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1677	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, where fortunately we had talked about these laws a little more than two or three years ago, if there had been a little more understanding in the previous government or if we had had had an extraordinary parliamentary election, I think the state of public finances would have been much better and maybe we wouldn't have come into a situation today that we had to increase VAT, in order to manage to meet those commitments that we have from budgets according to different categories of citizens. So, unfortunately, in Serbia, we often have personal political interests overcoming some of the wider social interests and are very often seen in the short term, and there is no vision of an economic system, a vision of a model of economic growth that is generally meant for us all to mean a better life and perspective. Turn around, turn around, we're in a situation where today we're just talking about these laws. Before I say a few words about them, I would like to say that this government is composed of the goal of really implementing a serious reform, which we did not have, unfortunately, in the previous period, I would say throughout this period of transition, or if we did have some reform laws they did not implement, so we came into the situation that in a series of laws we have very poor implementation of these laws and that the results of these laws by the Serbian economy and by the standard of citizens are catastrophic. We almost had data that the standard of citizens had dropped 30% in the last year alone. All this was to be warned, but unfortunately, there was not enough political will. As I said earlier, it seems to me that the political interests and the desire to push through some four-year term was much stronger than the interests of the citizens. So we've tied this government's survival to the implementation of institutional structural reforms and as far as the SNS is concerned, be assured, we will continue to do so. We are aware that those criticisms that are coming from the current opposition are in place when it comes to the fact that these measures are not enough. We are aware that there are very serious cuts ahead of us and that these reforms that need to be implemented will not be popular for a part of the citizens. But we are also aware that the citizens of Serbia expect change from us and that they are now, day by day, increasingly aware of how difficult public finances are today, how difficult our economy is. So, we count on support, we count on understanding of citizens, but we also count on the courage of this government, the courage of people who need to propose measures to the government, so the Government to us as a Parliament, because I think that political courage is one big flaw in our political life, that we went very often with some populist measures, and that we didn't have the courage to put what we imagine through to the end. So the measures, of course, aim at fiscal consolidation and I don't think any of the speakers from the government or the opposition have challenged it. Mere may not have such a big effect over the next few months, but it will have an effect in the coming years, and that is very important, because I think that, as far as these governments are concerned, the responsibility of this government still needs to start with the 2013 budget, that through this budget, it will see what it is that the government has drawn up as its economic programme and in what sense thinks it is leading public finances and how it thinks it can come up with a new model of economic growth, without which there is no serious revenue in the budget and there is no strengthening of the revenue side of the budget. Without it, we're all aware, we're only sinking into greater poverty, into greater poverty, we're simply contracting these funds and these resources that we have. We come into a situation where we have an unsustainable economic policy on a medium-term, let alone a long-term term, we don't need to talk about it. I'm glad that, when it comes to these measures that are currently on the agenda, I can commend that, despite the fact that there are those unpopular ones that refer to the tax hike, to the increase in VAT, you have express concerns about entrepreneurs, about small businesses. I don't think the opposition gentlemen could argue that either. You will allow me, as an MP who supports these measures later, to read a few measures that are undoubtedly in favour of a small economy, which will undoubtedly mean preserving these jobs, and in the previous years, we had a loss of jobs, especially when it comes to entrepreneurs, when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. That government definition is extremely important to me. What's also to praise the measures that we have on the agenda today, that's the fact that they are to a good degree of life, I'd say. I think the ministry has heard a lot about all the problems that have occurred in the meantime when it comes to certain laws and I think it has shown enough visions for everything that awaits us and possibly for one danger of deepening this crisis that has been going on for too long and on our premises, but also beyond, the general international crisis of the economy, the international crisis of finance. I'd like to say, when it comes to the extra value tax, that we were forced to come to that. We are also aware of those bad implications that bring extra value to the tax increase, but by a series of measures, at least when it comes to, as I just said, entrepreneurship, I think the negative effects of that increase have been slowed down or significantly reduced. The important thing is to point out because of Serbian citizens that today there is no extra value tax increase in food, and from some recent reports by the Republic Statistics Institute, I think that somewhere near 50%, 45, 46 or 47% of the family's income in Serbia is going to food. Therefore, I think it is an important thing in these measures and an important message to the citizens of Serbia, that at least in that part they will be protected from an increase in tax on additional value. What's very important is that in a better way, it's regulated and refunded taxes on additional value and that the ministry and the government have committed themselves to no delays in that vomiting, and even imposed themselves on some criminal interest, which was very positive and rarely happening when it comes to the tax system, that the state generally punishes itself. She punished citizens more often and punished the economy when they were late with their obligations to the state. That's something that's positive. As for excise duties, another unpopular measure, but it was also inevitable, because VAT and excise taxes are the basis of the revenue side in the budget. In that sense, I think that part about the fact that the excise refund is about cab drivers, when it comes to entrepreneurs being well-designed and commendable, at least in that part. As for the income tax on interest and dividends, I think at this point it's probably one measure that affects, above all, those more wealthy citizens and that in a situation where we have to show a much greater degree of social solidarity, among us all, that I hope and expect that we will have an understanding about these citizens. So, all those criticisms of the opposition we could hear in the previous debate, I think they refer to the measures as populist, that they are short-term, that they are insufficient, to the most extent they do not stand. So the effects will be visible primarily in the 2013 budget, 2014. Most populistly, I think populist in any case are not, I think the goal is to protect as many standards as possible of individual groups of citizens, because why the populist measures at the beginning of a government's mandate, if you already have them, are usually in the third or fourth year of office. I mean, according to that claim, it doesn't stand, and like I said before, they're not enough. We're aware of that, and we do, and I think we're just about to have a more serious package that's just going to continue this intensity with which it's moving. However, we have a large number of laws, we have the fact that the government was put together a month and a half ago, and expect serious tax reforms, system reforms in such a short time without one serious analysis, I think it would be irresponsible and not realistic. I believe that this government has very little room for error because the mistakes in the previous period have been very large, and therefore we will have to think more seriously about any measure that is proposed, that is to say, that the government is assessing the effects of each of these measures, and we MPs are also going to take it much more seriously. I'm sure in the next period we'll have more time to look at all these measures. I'm aware that all these changes, these laws, these regulations came very quickly but I'm saying, for a month and a half there's still a government, the problems are piled up and big and I don't think we could have expected much more in that sense. What I would like to help small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to help entrepreneurs, which is very important, I would still like to emphasise, to increase the censorship and to welcome, this increase of VAT rates from four million to eight million. The tax on additional value for realisation I think it will mean a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises and that we have a large number of companies that will, thanks to this measure, preserve liquidity in a shorter period, given that a period of six months is foreseen that unless VAT payments occur, that is to say, realisation that it must be paid, that this safeguard measure means a lot, but also leaves space for small and medium-sized enterprises to repair their liquidity. As for the obligation of VAT bonds to be investors when it comes to construction and that area of our economy, I don't see what's wrong with that. I recognize only one proposal that is much clearer that will allow the IRS to have better control and that will certainly improve the status of VAT payments. Vomiting excise, abolishing fiscal registers, is also one measure that we all welcome. Is at that time when they were introduced, did it go too far, we can estimate both, and the other, and we who are on one side today in power, at that point thought that we might be going too deep with that measure but the situation was also significantly better and we calculated that through one tax reform that should have led to an important improvement in the state of the grey economy. That at that moment it was a measure to prevent the gray economy. Now when we talk about the gray economy, it is also commendable to this proposal from the Ministry and the Government, so that we have the possibility that the Tax Administration will control and those non-registered economic operators, or that, in fact, in that sense, correct the situation because a large number of businessmen are dissatisfied with the height of the gray economy in today's society. So that measure on the one hand leaves quite a gradual space for all those who are not registered to register in the next few months. I think that's good, that we shouldn't be too tough in this situation and that we're all on the verge of some kind of social endurance. That entrepreneurship is in a situation that has a very small profit and that the road to the gray economy is often and is not in a desire to cover up some tax obligations, but that entrepreneurs have no other solution at this point. As for the simplification of procedures, we have a lot in this law, but the tax procedure and the announcement of the minister is commendable. The return of VAT to farmers in the name of farmers is also the measure to be welcomed and that's the thing that came out of practice, and that understanding of problems at that micro-level, that's what I mean one new quality that we didn't have in the previous government, where there was always talk about some macro-level, where there were always some big strategies, with some big words, and of all that, those people on the ground, those people who do not often have a sense of taking care of them. If it continues in that sense, in that direction, I think we can all support such government intensity together in the National Assembly. The suspension of taxes and fees, which means about 138 parafiscal charges, I think that for every commendation and the fact that in any subsequent period we will have the unification of these fees at the level of the entire Republic and control by the ministry, because it has been taken out of control. I think we can all agree that we have a lot of problems in local self-government. I hope that the government will take care of this because some 30% of public finances touch local self-government, and the purpose of spending, the way these funds are spent is very often motivated by some political reasons. There are a lot of things that should be commended at this point when it comes to these measures. When it comes to budget rebalance, of course we will talk about all this, they will have a significant impact on budget stability at the moment, but we expect real effects in 2013. In that sense, I believe that all of us MPs can be essentially satisfied and that the Government will have the understanding, if this continues for all those objections coming from the economy, from the citizens, in some future period, and that we will possibly be able to correct some of the failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1678	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What is important in this discussion, and understandably, whether MPs are pleading as a position or opposition, it is understandable that there is a whole series of objections and all of them are in fact finding one thing, that these 23 and 24 laws that change in the function of the first rebalancing, so what they all talked about two months ago must be done urgently. On the other hand, this is just a set of necessary measures and, finally, it is not possible by one man, one government, by one move to correct everything seen in the meantime, regardless of whether it was done with good intentions, with a bad intention, which was seen to harm both the budget and the state and the citizens. Personally, Mr Dinkic tells me that you obviously haven't been in power for two years, that in those two years you haven't visited party cells, you've already been seeing the citizens, because in this 23 law that I've heard, you've talked about each of them for five minutes. That turned out to be two hours. You have managed to see that different distortions, unseriousness, irresponsibility, and sometimes boastiness has made the whole layers of citizens damaged by different legal measures. In this 23 laws are actually corrected on the one hand, so they will surely tell you to implement, and implement, your election promises, not only your own, but many parties, but you also provide savings for the means that will be necessary. We're one sentence, let me, since it's a time limit. What matters is, someone said yesterday, this is just the first step. It must be clear to everyone when you want to clean the house and to clean it up, you have to move all things first, and then you'll find that some of them may have been bought for a reason, but there's no reason to keep them safe, that some of them have stinked up in the meantime, so it doesn't usually help clean up. But it's very important that this is just the first step and that we see the effects both in the rebalancing and in the budget. That's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1680	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1681	Thank you. Before I begin, excuse me if I could find out how much time our parliamentary group has left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1682	You have 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1683	Ladies and gentlemen, the current state of economic, political in Serbia is very difficult and very burdensome and cannot be reminded at this time in 2012 of something that was 10 or 12 years ago or more and cannot be accused of such a catastrophic situation in the economy, in economics, of someone who was in power 10 or 15 years ago. People are really hard to live and the weight of life makes us look after these problems and these very difficult situations very responsibly and that for a moment we put aside all of our political differences, the political maybe and the conflicts that we had before, because it really burned to the nail and really this situation in Serbia can be called an emergency situation. Since summer and almost many parts of Serbia have been burdened with many fires, the situation in Serbia's economy can indeed be described as affected by fire. And when the fire is present, then it needs to be extinguished urgently and with all possible means, most intelligently, most rationally so that the fire doesn't spread, so that it doesn't devastate everything around it. I must therefore say that I am proud to point out that in Serbia today, 2012 has seen major changes, that it is clear that these changes in the political sphere have been made thanks to the forces that are now in a position to look freely into everything in the eyes and to accept what is positive, regardless of which the positive proposal encouraged, whether this is a proposal from a position or opposition or from someone who may have had different political views in the previous period than we who are in power today. So I have to say that the current situation is really in the economy because of a neoliberal capitalist system that was introduced to Serbia after 2000 and that for the past 12 years has left great clues, above all in this economic area that could be seen now and that have resulted today by the situation as it is that there is a big hole in the budget. So, on the one hand, we had a reduction in income that would allow for the financing of all those forms of consumption, which were introduced in the meantime, and what was introduced, or how all that was introduced, was to spend everything that wasn't created, so that there was no agency for anything, or an examination of the influence of acidity of milk on puberty flies, and because of that, there was a situation like this where we all are, whether we're from power or from opposition. I must say that I am pleased that in this House there is such an atmosphere that has been changed in relation to the one that has ruled since 2000, when it was necessary for a whip to reach a pay phone, when in a large number of cases the presidency has been referred to so much reproach to the opposition that there could be no critical tones to the work of the Government, or to the work of the government. It's changed today. Today is a very different situation. But let's not talk about what the situation was today, let's say what it is. Since the situation in local self-government is a little earlier and difficult, unfortunately there are some relics of that political action where DS is still in place, unfortunately together with individual members or municipal committees of the URS or others in power, in which, for example, in local parliaments, you have only a minute and a half if you are a free committee to tell what you have on any draft decision, law or agenda. Let's say, as in the Pyrot case. Thanks to SNS and what happened as a change. In this House, that is not the case, and I hope that in all of Serbia, the time will indeed come for us to be democratic, in the right way to deal with the real problems that we are in. So, a set of these laws comes precisely to prevent the negative consequences of the political, economic system that has led Serbia into this very difficult situation since 2000. A set of these laws, although some of the aspects, or parts of these laws, may seem unpopular, must be in a fire-extinguishing function affecting the Republic of Serbia's budget. These laws are in the function of enabling the uninterrupted functioning of republican institutions. But we from the Socialist Movement that we are working together with our SNS coalition partners will try to be just the beginning of reforms that will mark the actual launch of Serbia from the dead spot that it was brought to, again I must say, not in the previous 40-50 days, but thanks to the creation of a system which, unfortunately, led by the DS promoted the value of neo-liberal capitalism, regardless of what DS came to the Socialist International or the reputation of the leftist party. Unfortunately, in Serbia, there are certain political entities that, regardless of such an objectively difficult situation, continue to advocate the application of these neoliberal systems, which do not realise that this way we will not be able to go anywhere, which do not realize that even in those countries where the neoliberal capitalist system has existed for a much longer period than we have. It has given up the system, but there are people who are continuations of a neoliberal policy in the function of foreign capital who think that this will enable them to act on a political stage and be able to contribute to Serbia's development. Unfortunately, it's nothing. It's just empty stories that don't even stand in the EU anymore. It's just stories that can serve daily political needs. When we hear in this House someone calling for the protection of the interests of workers, and the same one until yesterday was the main advocate of such a law on labour, the same law on privatisation, which is the two main system laws that have led to these problems that we have today and the gaps in the budget, don't be surprised that we have to resort to even unpopular measures that exist among these proposed laws that are on the agenda today, so that all these consequences can be adjudicated. People across Serbia have a hard time living, but it is particularly difficult for people in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. At this point, we must pay attention that indeed these people in Kosovo and Metohija should be helped maximumly. This set of laws will also have huge consequences for their lives, but above all, I must point out that those who, eight years later, dared to call on international factors to ban the visit of individuals, particularly the director of the state office, the Government's Office for Kosovo and Metohija, to be able to visit Serbs in Cosmet, is a very negative move and indeed with regret I had to listen to calls that were irresponsible individuals from individual opposition parties, specifically from LDP, referred to the topic. By chance, the same call or the same proposal was made by Bajram Rexhepi, so that it is revealed in whose function these statements were and why those statements were taking place. (President: I ask the People's Messenger to return to the topic. ) We will support this set of proposed laws in order to, as I pointed out, put out the fire. I just have to answer a few notes that came out yesterday, and I wasn't able to answer them. It is mentioned that Babusnica from one speaker with a remark that at this point in Babusnica there are very bad economic opportunities, that local officials receive salaries and that roads are full of holes. I remind you that Babusnica is also part of Serbia and that it shares the fate of all Serbia, that there were more than 7-8 strong economic operators in Babusnica who worked over 2,000 workers, and today the same Babusnica has local self-government officials like it did then, but there are no such business entities that failed in the meantime. I also have to take advantage of the opportunity, in addition to the fact that we will absolutely support such a law, although there are some things that will be unpopular, to refer the question to the Minister about eliminating his own revenues to direct budget users, since there were some questions from the middle from which I came, from Piroth - will high school be excluded from these flows? So, in particular, will a high school that has its own income be influenced by the measure of abolishing its own income to direct budget users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1684	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1685	Let me just answer that. No, it's not about education, not about colleges, not about schools, not about health institutions. They belong in the so-called so-called. indirect users.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1686	The word has a folk MP Dragan Tomic, noting that you have six minutes and 30 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1687	Thank you. I would like to start with what the public has treated these days as key factors that planned this budget rebalance proposal and, I would say, put the political opposition first, scaring Serbian citizens that this part of the budget that can be declared by this new government is something that will cause additional problems for Serbian citizens. It's partly true because this budget is someone else's handwriting, someone else's matrix, other people's consciousness and other people's intelligence, and the way they behave, and it clearly shows that everything that's been going on in this period for these nine months that we're coming out of these days can't be fixed that easily. The situation can be seen, it can be remedied as necessary, it can react to the social component and in such a way as to meet the end of the year with as little negative effects as possible and of course to avoid what is called the collapse of the Serbian economy, or bankruptcy. All the measures that have been proposed at the moment have envisioned one behaviour to repair the maximum state in certain areas as possible, but I must say that, in addition to what is written in these regulations or what is proposed budget rebalancing, there are a number of factors that will affect the different behaviours that have been manifested in the public so far. This haughtiness in consumption, unintended spending of funds, abuses in the behaviour of certain public officials, abuses of ministries for political purposes served primarily for political agitation, not for what they were educated by the state or the Ministry Act, for which they were assigned purposes. By redefining a number of these fiscal and payment traffic behaviours that have so far remethyl traffic regularity will help to calm down the level of poor consumption, i.e. that money is no longer spent on nonsense, that all the resources and resources that exist at the moment are used in what is necessary, and at this point this should be resolved by the economy and taken into account in particular the social component by the end of the year. I'd like to say a few sentences on the assessment of the fiscal council. First, it started with sharp estimates according to this proposal. I think that by yesterday, the tones were minimised, and that there was some common position that this should look like at this point, to look at the situation, to see that the situation is extremely difficult and to predict how to go in the direction of recovery. It is a common assessment that the recovery time is not small, that the deficit growth will be in the coming year, but that these measures, which are still likely to be produced over a month through the 2013 draft budget, will only then be able to see the hints or seriousness of fiscal procedures that will be in the coming year of deficit reduction engines, improving fiscal discipline and, above all, that the budget has real revenues, reducing the level of debt through poor loans. I must say that, above all, the results of the visit to Serbia by President Russia and the first Deputy Prime Minister of Germany have just contributed to the fact that we can expect, in the coming year, from these sources and these loans that will be quite cheap for Serbia at this time and from Germany, that investment procedure that is expected in the coming years to help Serbia's economy get more jobs, and to protect the key part where the interest is being reduced, because it is evident that now in the rebalancing process is expected to grow interest, that the budget was not intended for 12 months, nor for the Resava mines, nor for the railway whole, etc. It's all in this cake now. The press mentioned the 13th pension. I don't think it's the 13th pension, it's something else. I think it's part of the social map to help our pensioners in the next 3-4 months, first of all, to simply improve their material conditions to welcome the end of the year under normal circumstances. I'd rather say it's a social moment than I'd say it's a 13th pension, because it's neither right nor foreseen by law, let alone the need to abuse a term. That's what I wanted to say about the Fiscal Council. In the end, I'd only say one thing. There is one absolute agreement that this deficit must be reduced in the coming years. It will grow, but if it opposes the parameters that will increase revenues, they will keep their balance until the moment their fall begins. What caused this growth? It was caused by multiple factors. It wasn't just a political campaign in this year when the funds for...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1688	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1689	Here's a few more sentences. The need for DS political representatives is to show through spending public funds how beautiful they are to the citizens, but that did not help. The bottom line is, we now have this extent of the deficit that we have to fight by the end of the year. This is a topic that takes a very long time and is practically impossible to say in 5-6 minutes, but there will be opportunities at other points of the agenda to speak more on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1690	Information on the extension of today's work. Dear Members of the National Assembly in accordance with Articles 87 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to complete this session at its scheduled pace before the start of the regular session. We're moving on with our work. The word has been made by MP Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1691	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today is on the agenda of a large set of laws but I will refer to those laws concerning environmental protection, namely the abolition of agencies formed during the work of the previous government, as well as the abolition of an extremely important institution formed during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. First of all, I think that you are making a big mistake and an injustice towards protecting the environment that will leave a terribly difficult consequence and endanger and what little has been done to bring a major European policy to life in Serbia at a high level, become an integral part of our political system and bring results that come from generations. Environmental protection, there I fully agree with colleague Vojic, today is not popular because she costs, she is an investment in the future. Today everyone is taking care of the current difficult economic situation and there is no time in which it is claimed that it is not the time for innovation, for modernisation, for establishing a European business system and for managing certain institutions. It is always those investments and those policies that are the most remote to the perception of the importance of an ordinary citizen. In the past four years, by passing a set of environmental laws, we have managed to put environmental protection in the right place. This is what the international and domestic institutions and the professional public spoke of in their reports. I am pleased to have been at the head of the ministry, which every year in the European Commission's report had an extremely positive assessment when it comes to setting European standards in this area. When we implemented policies under EU recommendations, we introduced institutions that were fully parallel to the institutions that exist in the EU and that exist in each EU country. Each agency formed has its own institution in Brussels to communicate with, each of these institutions has been formed in accordance with a law that is also in line with the law that exists in the EU and is part of a "aki communator" and each of these institutions has adopted all the standards that need to be established in this country. My key question to the government today is did you consult with Brussels, who we are certainly seeking and the definition of this government is that this country should go to the EU, when you have abolished such important institutions as the Chemical Agency or the IOA? In doing so, you know that no man will be fired anyway and there will be no savings or minimum savings when it comes to the abolition of these two institutions. These are important regulatory bodies, they can function within the Ministry and function until they are formed. Going back is a step back in our path to the EU. I'd rather stay at the Environment Fund. These days, parallel to trying to legalize something that I would call unintended spending of funds in the future, takes place and an attempt to justify the abolishing of the Fund completely ugly and untrue arguments. Today I wanted to share with you some information that is absolutely accurate and you can find it in all business books when it comes to the Environmental Protection Fund. The Environment Fund was formed in 2006. It is not a direct budgetary institution, the Fund's funds do not come from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but has its own incomes, which are normally charged by a pay polluter, i.e. a payer, i.e. a payer, which means that the Fund is filled with pollutants that have to pay off certain funds that return to the development and protection of the environment each year. Another key revenue was the income from environmental taxis. There are still several revenue lines that concerned the exploitation of natural resources. All in all, the Fund was filling its budget exclusively from those polluting the environment and was obliged to spend that budget on reparation, raising, improving environmental protection. The fund made about five billion dinars a year, which in the state system when we talk about a budget that's somewhere between 800, 900 billion dinars, when you take a consolidated budget it's much bigger and represents a very small sum. When you talk about today that the way the Fund deployed certain funds has led to the fact that there are no salaries and pensions, you do not tell the truth, Mr Dinkic. Fund funds could never be used for wages and pensions. If they were used in any way other than to protect the environment, it would be a violation of the law. You said a few false things on one of the shows, and the biggest lie is that 80% of the Fund's funds were spent on a billboard. That's why I wanted to share information in public how the funds of the Environment Fund were spent. I took in 2011, that's the last year that was all over. The fund had an income of about 5.1 billion dinars. 1.1 billion dinars were spent on incentives and credits for waste treatment or economic use, business in the new environmental standards. For communal equipment, dedicated vehicles and waste disposals, 340 million dinars were spent on the disposal and construction of regional dumps, 700 million dinars were spent on construction of recycling yards across Serbia, 700 million dinars were spent on air protection and air quality monitoring, 280 million dinars were spent on water protection in 2011, 160 million dinars were spent to remove wild deposits and to re-cultivate existing deposits, 680 million dinars were spent to protect nature and nature promotion projects were spent on 150 million dinars, for the setting up of solar collectors and heat pumps in state institutions, for energy efficiency and renewable energy use were spent on 200 million dinars. 90 million dinars have been spent to finance professional and scientific houses, support to universities. 68 million dinars and a very important project to raise awareness and education of the population on environmental protection were spent in 2011, and 65% of projects were implemented. When all of this is collected, we come to the task of building infrastructure for environmental protection, landfills, recycling centres, purchasing municipal equipment, installing filters that need to clean polluted air, investing in wastewater treatment plants, building collector's sewerage networks, protecting nature, improving nature and many others, spent 97.8% of the funds of the fund. Only 2.2% of funds in 2011, Mr Dinkic, were spent on education, raising public awareness, informing the public about the importance of the environment and the work of NGOs. What is the problem and what today in the general hysteria in the media, in which it is necessary to show that everyone who is former criminals and thieves, and all those who are new came to deal with it, is taking examples of this 2.2%. They are being taken out without any order, without any context, without any idea of and entering an analysis which is why an NGO is supported or why it has been working on exceptional environmental problems and making fun of the public, trying to show that all the money spent has gone into someone's pockets, gone to corrupting the media, to promote political parties, without any argument, without any insight into the exact state and without giving any alternative, e.g. Funding the work of a very important segment such as NGOs dealing with the protection of the environment in the future. That's how we heard the mockery today, which is why, for example, Supported project of solar chargers, and I will remind you, it is a project of our children, a group of young people who won one of the most important prizes for research activities in Brussels, and the state has decided to help them by inventing and winning a prize in Brussels, which will allow them to set it up in Serbia. It was a project we worked together with the city of Belgrade. I'm proud that we've allowed these people to accomplish this project. Today you pull him out and say, "Why is this financed?" It was funded because the state had to help and things like that. Let's not talk about a joke with the Menopausal Association. We had to do a serious study on the impact of environmental pollution on human health. As a country, we have a terrible problem of infertile marriages. Infertile marriages, or premature menopause in women, as the main cause of infertile marriages, as well as problems with male sterileness, are mainly caused by environmental pollution in all studies. We need to know where those contaminants come from. We need to know where the problems are and how to solve them. The study includes the country's largest experts. She's a two-year project that was supposed to help the ministry find a way to come up with a policy so it doesn't happen anymore. So we've been dealing with all our affairs thoroughly, systematically, with the hope that this policy will someday produce a healthier environment and improve the health of our population. If you wanted to end the fund, you could have done it in an elegant way. I understand the need, and I must say that there was an intrinsic need for the fund to be abolished during the government that I participated in, but we were able to prevent that from happening. If you wanted to collect money from environmental taxis, from pollution, put it into the budget and redistribute it to other costs, you could have done it without this embarrassing campaign in which one good policy, which was extremely successful, which significantly improved everything that concerned the environment, stepped on and ran for no reason whatsoever. There was no reason for you to attack a good policy to shut down the fund. You could have done it simply with the law. We would, of course, rebel. You'd do it all the way. I think that's bad. What I would ask of you is a promise to make here in front of the MPs and our citizens. The environment deserves to be financed. She has to be funded. In Serbia, they must continue to build dumps, wastewater treatment plants. Serbia needs recycling centres, Serbia needs recycling industry. Serbia needs protected natural goods. Serbia needs to be saved from the huge pollution that is all around us. In order for that to happen, they have to provide finance. If today, Mr Dinkic, you will promise me that the Ministry of Environment will have the same budget as it did during this government through the fund, that you will allow these five billion dinars to be spent on protecting the environment, in terms of whichever ministry it wants, then I will say, okay, no problem, you've done a good job, congratulations on that. What I'm afraid of is that it won't happen. I've had experience, we've all had experience, that we've been involved in the work of the previous government, what the budget negotiation looks like. When it starts to negotiate the budget, there are always priorities and there is always something that is most important. The environment, I repeat, usually doesn't matter to anyone. Of course, it's much more important to have it for wages, pensions, social benefits, the military, the police, so the health care comes, so education comes. The environment is always out there in the corner, small, which should accept that this is all priority and important. I'm afraid in this way we're going to step completely into everything that's been an attempt to see the environment as health and education. I must say, I object that today the people who came after us to the ministry enjoy the fact that they are being abolished by one of the most important instruments for political implementation. I didn't hear the Minister of Health criticizing her predecessor's construction of hospitals, health homes. I don't hear that someone in education has any criticism about the predecessor building schools and hospitals, but I hear that today's ministry has something against us building recycling centers and dumps and generously accepting that those funds, instead of being scolded to stay in the environment, go to this dark villa called the Republic budget, so the question is how much they're going to negotiate to get it back. You've brought it up, Mr. Dinkic, and some of the charges that are at least incorrect. You said there must've been a non-intentional waste of funds. You said there were probably some abuses. I think you forgot very quickly what it looks like to be media-scitated, exposed to one general ostracism. You're watching today and you started to participate in the criminalization of all the people who sat with you yesterday. You know very well, you've been exposed to it and you know how it feels, when everyone challenges you not only your policy. Dispute policy is fine. Today we sit here in Parliament and discuss it. When you're challenged morally, human, they turn you into a criminal. And you were exposed to it. I don't understand why you have to participate in this right now and why you have to make such heavy accusations without having any arguments. I agree that there are bodies that need to examine the business of each institution. I look forward to it. If there were abuses, let some people who took part in the pay under the law prove themselves, even if it's in the fund, the ministry, wherever. I agree with that, but don't label it and participate in today's media labeling, which is facing me this time, and who knows, maybe tomorrow will be turned to you, because one day you can go back to the opposition. In fact, you've never been in opposition, but maybe one day and as a government you'll be on the verge of these same attacks. I'm hearing here today that Oliver Dulic owed this country 50m euros from one medium, which does not know anything about what it says. Then it is said that I owed the country by leaving in the fund signed and unrealised contracts for the following projects. Energy efficiency of 1.1 billion. Yes, we have surrounded state institutions and buildings all over Serbia's cities this year. It was one of the best projects we've ever done. In two months, all local self-government attracted these projects, and schools, hospitals, health homes and kindergartens became energy efficient. They have energy savings on one side. On the other hand, they restored their facades and became beautiful. Great project. Did I build it for myself, that someone accused me of borrowing this country with it? The same was true of building recycling centers. Then the question arises – why, where are the recycling centres? They're being built because there's nothing you can do overnight in this country. In order to establish a normal policy, it takes years to build an ecological infrastructure. Not everything can be done overnight, but it's being built at this point, so I borrowed the land because, unfortunately, the fund had to invest in two projects where, Mr Dinkic and I participated together. One aid to the building, and the Fund had to give funds to help the building because of its obligations, and your Ministry failed to fulfil the obligation that we had in common when we were designing a project to help build, which is to find the funds of commercial banks, in order to fill out the part that represents the government's commitment. Your Ministry didn't do the job, so the Environment Fund had to fund it. Same as the other project, and it's my big mistake. It's a terrible thing for me now because I've ever accepted that, as a temporary measure under extraordinary circumstances, certain funds are allocated to subsidize housing loans from the Environment Fund. These are the things we did and it's a mistake in 2012. You will now, on the basis of this mistake, remove the Fund and transfer all funds to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the environment will not be returned to the resources needed and will fail many of the projects that have begun. I have a message for the new Ministry - break up all contracts you don't like. It's your right. We have led the policy that we felt should - a certain percentage of the Fund's total business should be directed into the education of this otherwise uneducated people when it comes to environmental protection. Don't do that, don't fund it and say goodbye. But what are the key projects that involve building infrastructure, it has to be done, this country needs it. To conclude, I think you're making a big mistake. I think the environment after these decisions will each suffer certain consequences. I think it will certainly have an impact on the report that will come from the institutions that are monitoring the state of the environment in this country and I think that one day, and hopefully very quickly, we will sit here and discuss again and that the Ministry will need to redefine how much funding this country needs to spend on the environment, because it is important. It is important for this country, it is important for future generations, it is important for the health of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1692	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1693	You asked the question – why will all environmental taxes remaining in the system and due to be charged to polluters be no longer the income of the Environment Fund, but the general revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget? Because, and the Democratic Party of Serbia MP rightly said this, this Fund was founded with good intentions at the end of 2006, and during your term, its mission was completely turned to the other side - outside European standards, out of greenology, but for political purposes and political promotion. I will present the information on which I decided, together with Minister Mihajlovic, to abolish the Environmental Protection Fund, because we have made sure that under the political pressure that existed in your time he did not perform the environmental protection function. That's all the reason. We want to protect the environment. All environmental taxes remain, but in real environmental protection programs. What was wrong with you? If I'm wrong, you explain. The first question -- this fund has made about three billion dinars this year, and in total, the closure of the fund has been signed contracts for five billion and 800 million dinars, which means that funds from previous years have not been spent. If they're not spent, what does that mean? Did you have any environmental projects, so you didn't do them? Is there really no need for these funds to be spent to protect the environment, but the extra funds have been transferred this year? If they really cared about the environment, I guess every penny that was charged from environmental pollution, from those taxis, would be spent on environmental protection. They choke in smoke, people in many cities. Why didn't you give that money to those projects? Why aren't these huge dumps you're talking about built? Tell the public how realistic the dump was built with these funds during your term of office? Those who follow it say it's only a few, and it was planned and it's been kept public that it's going to be about 20 and something. Where are those dumps, if only a few dumps were built? Is it normal for a billion and almost 100 million dinars to be given over 10m euros, to subsidize those who import 140 tonnes of batteries and 13 tonnes of waste tires to get incentives and take care of that waste and some warehouses, the largest number of which was made in Subotica? I repeat, 140 tonnes of batteries and 13 tonnes of waste tyres have been imported from abroad and those people who have imported have raised a grant from the Environmental Protection Fund to take care of these batteries and old tyres on their private plots which were, whether or not, mainly on the territory of Vojvodina and, above all, in Subotica. It's just that we need to clarify why it was done. It is not a waste that has been collected in Serbia. Let me understand that, though it doesn't make any sense. A recycled thing should be paid, not waste management. If something is recycled, it should be stimulated and paid. This doesn't make any sense. I'm not an environmental expert, but as an economist, I know this isn't. Secondly, it should be prohibited for contaminants to put things like this off without punishment. It is necessary to impose strict fines. Here the principle is wrong, because those who have said that changes in system laws are necessary are right. I've been listening to what you've been saying, and I need to take this opportunity to say that you're right about these nuclear security issues, about pay. After this discussion of yours, I began to think about how to remove this thing. This has nothing to do with the Environmental Protection Fund, but with the ionising radiation agency and with Serbia's nuclear facilities. We're probably going to intervene on that subject, because I think your discussion really was appropriate, and well-intentioned, and it makes a lot of sense. On the other hand, to return to the Environment Fund – 600,000 euros was paid for posters and billboards in the "Clear Serbia" action. About 600,000 euros were given to the daily list only for advertising. Those who know how much a TV campaign costs, know that for 600,000 euros, you can advertise in the most expensive terms for almost two months. It's serious money for campaigns, and for daily papers, abnormal money. So whoever it was, it doesn't matter what the daily list is here, it's not the daily list that received it, it's you who gave it, instead of giving it away for some purpose that really protects the environment. That's why I'm saying it. You gave 30,000 euros for the site, for the Agency's desk. Be careful, on 18 May 2012, after the parliamentary elections, you sign a three million-dollar contract for service - corporate communications and the creation of the Fund's image. Does that make sense? Is that responsible? Does that have anything to do with protecting the environment? You create the image of the fund after holding the election when you don't know it at all. How is it even possible that anyone, meanwhile, while the technical government is signing such contracts? What else did you spend that money for? A few more things, and I'll go over here. You said yourself to support the construction industry. That doesn't make any sense. If money can be transferred to protect the environment to help the construction industry, that means it is not spent on the purpose for which the Fund was established. How can we believe that this fund in the future will behave in accordance with the Law it was established? It is better to make these environmental taxes a general revenue of the budget, and through environmental protection programmes, to go to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government with concrete programmes. Of course, there will be environmental protection programs, but it's real programs, not those that have nothing to do with the environment. When the DRI established a conflict of interest with you personally and when you lost your right to sign as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Fund, then you authorized your Secretary of State, Nemanja Komazec, to do the job. Then you brought Žarko Vojnić, a relative of this same Negativity Komazec, as your internal auditor, in order to allegedly internally examine whether these things are done in accordance with regulations, which is a purely conflict of interest. You signed contracts that had nothing to do with the protection of the environment, not just for these banal things that the fellow Member spoke of, but for the maintenance services of motor vehicles. You've paid about 10 million dinars to maintain vehicle repairs from the Ministry, with the installation of original spare parts. You paid for the operation and maintenance of air conditioning for the needs of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the maintenance service of the Geological Information System, which has nothing to do with the Environment Fund, the maintenance of computer equipment and continuous power supply devices for the needs of the ministry. You bought office materials for the Ministry of Money which is intended to protect the environment. What does furniture, chairs, tables from removing the effects of environmental pollution have to do with it? You've paid for tracking printed electronic media for the needs of the ministry, a million and a half dinars from this fund, you've also paid for computer equipment, you've paid for printing services through this Ministry fund. So, as if you had the ministry's auxiliary budget in it. That's the problem. The ministry can't use quasi budget funds to finance its regular activities, because then you cheat on MPs, cheat on the government when you go with one digit, and spend more on a purpose that the Assembly hasn't set up for you. If the congregation has ordered you to protect the environment from that fund and remove the effects of pollution, this should have been used. Because of the accidental use of funds, the government has decided to abolish the fund. We don't want to get into a situation where we're thinking in the future whether someone's going to act irresponsiblely, like you've been acting, or be responsible. That doesn't mean there won't be a program. Programs have to be public. Did the public know about these batteries and tires? I doubt it. I found out about this report when we were doing an analysis of what to rationalize. Full budget spending must be made available to the public. In the Budgetary System Act, we envisioned publication on the site, necessarily, of all the data relating to the spending of state money. In this way, we come to the conclusion that no matter what people are concerned about environmental protection and environmental protection for years, they complain that there is not enough money. Turns out there was more money than could be spent, so it was transferred and spent for those purposes of propaganda, campaigning. This is to encourage imports of used batteries and tyres of 10m euros. I don't know what to call it. Those aren't small funds. It's not environmental protection as we see it and how this government sees it. That is why we have abolished the Environment Fund and we will defend and protect the environment in the way it is done in Europe. It is not enough to refer to a European standard, so abuse it. This essentially derivates the European values that we have all advocated together. No one is against the protection of the environment, but to do it the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1694	The word has Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened to this lamentation that sounded - I left the government, it's not easy for me. I believe it's not easy for you, the media is full of scandals you've made. Did you make them, I don't know, because there are some different interpretations of how much public debt we owe us, so different interpretations of how much debt you've left. We'll find out probably if the institutions do their job. I'd like to go back to the professional section. You're saying you invested in water protection. It's not your ministry's jurisdiction. Water protection wasn't your jurisdiction. Protecting public health was also not your jurisdiction. We had ministries that dealt with the team. I understand that you wanted to help, that you had good intentions, but that's why you did the donkey a favor to get one institution, which is very important for Serbia's environmentals, to end it. Again, please consider other options, because if someone commits a crime, then it's not the institution's fault. What I need to tell you about that public health. It would be interesting if you had helped, say, the children in Zajaca, so you could see why they were killed, which is why they're sick, so now we have the results of that research and that's what we're talking about. We don't have any of that. You'll stay, unfortunately, remembered for wanting so much, so much you wanted to talk a lot, and you did the opposite of what you said. What's my finding, when you're instructions on numbers and what numbers are mentioned here, when it comes to environmental protection, there was money in environmental protection even though there was no money. The money unfortunately went to an unknown place. I hope one day we know where he went and I hope we invest it where he belongs, because you didn't belong to be the chairman of the board of directors of this fund, you didn't belong. Former Environment Minister Aleksandar Popovic, who also invested his knowledge to establish this fund, would never have thought to be the chairman of the board of directors. By being the chairman of the board of directors, you've made a fund and yourself what we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1696	The word has the People's MP Oliver Dulic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1697	I have some time from my group because I think it's very important to answer. Now I understand everything, Mr. Dinkic. You have a piece of paper that says a bunch of lies, in a policy that you said you didn't understand, a bunch of gossip from hair salons that you should check before you say it here in this important home. When you talk about recycling and subsidies to the recycling industry and you mention batteries and tires and you mention the question of what it was about, you need to know that this is one of the most important application of European laws when it comes to the incentive to raise recycling industry. It is precisely thanks to these measures that we have raised the recycling industry in Serbia, and today 100% tire recycling in Serbia, 100% accumulators, one large percentage of electronic and electric waste, waste oils, easily rising and recycling of polyethylene. We made a huge step in the green economy that hired nearly 10,000 people. When you say the dumps are in Subotic, I know what you mean. None of them are in Subotic. The tire recycling is in Sirig, battery recycling is in Sombor. The only connection with Subotic is that it starts with S and of course you're saying it has something to do with me. It has nothing to do with me. No recycling is found in Subotica. No recycling in Serbia has anything to do with me. The recycling of electronic and electrical waste is now in Nis, Belgrade, Pancheva, Indjia batteries. That's right. Cycling industries are opening all over Serbia. So, all the time you've been citing water on this shameful guide of accusing and criminalizing the work of a man, a ministry, to justify something that must come from environmentalism into your budget. All that stuff you said, you read, it's all just regular fund business. How much does your ministry spend on running a vehicle? You've got field vehicles, too. How much does your ministry spend on air conditioning, repairing hardware? Don't make a joke out of the state. You went down to that level to comment on how much money was spent on a change of car tires. That's what every ministry does. That's what our former ministry has to do. That, among other things, had to work as a fund as his own income. Those aren't your arguments to abolish. The abolishing of the fund is the need for you to centralize this country's entire money into your hands and to deploy it according to your intentions, according to your policy, according to your party's policy. That's your intention. Don't do this by trampling out the predecessors and don't do it using arguments that don't stand. All you've read is a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1698	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1699	I'm advocating a breach of article 104th century 1, 2, 3rd and 4th because the replica lasted longer than two minutes. Now I'm going to advertise Article 106. So when speakers don't stick to the subject, when I don't stick to the subject very easily, I'm chaired by reminders. So Mr. Dulic didn't stick to the subject. So recycling is not a topic, but since he mentioned recycling in India. During your term of office, a factory for recycling lead batteries is open on a regional waterway with a spring canal a mile and 200 from the center of Indjia, a company that is banned in Bulgaria. So, the activity that the company was engaged in was banned in Bulgaria, it was moved to India to a regional waterfall that was abolished so that the recycling plant could be built. In doing so, it is a falsified ecological consent, i.e. a plot on which it was built. Thank you. PRESIDENT: The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1700	You have not answered my question – why is a billion and 100 million dinars given to stimulate recycling of waste originating from abroad? Is Serbia's interest in giving money to import second-hand batteries, used tyres, to recycle and to employ our capacities? What's the matter? Why is the subsidy, the incentive, the billion, the exact figure of 1,083,642,112 dinars, given to import 140 tonnes of battery and 13 tons of waste tyres? It's imported, it's not collected from our waste, but we've cleaned up other people's foreign waste and we've still given money to the people who imported it. What's the logic here? The second thing, I guess you learned while you were in the government that the cost of current maintenance of ministries, the payment of electricity, water, maintenance of equipment, vehicles must be strictly realised from budget notes that are intended for this in the regular budget of the ministry, rather than for cars to be serviced from dedicated funds to protect the environment, to buy computers and furniture from dedicated funds. It's a random waste of money. The essence of the Environment Fund was to see this "green dinar" spent on ecology, not on car repairs, and not on these things. So I just don't know if you're aware that you've done the bear's image service to some companies through the accidental spending of these funds, regardless of how much you've paid 30,000 euros to improve your corporate image. How can they improve your corporate image, when you spend money on ecology on these banal things like maintenance of cars and computers, and plus these huge things to subsidize imports of second-hand batteries and scrap tires?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1701	Now this has turned into a debate about events, not laws that are on the agenda. The truth can be both. I don't think this is taking us anywhere. So, please, and I suggest we end this kind of debate, I'll give the word anyway, but please just move on to the laws that regulate the matter that we're discussing here. The People's MP Vladimir Ilic appears for the word. On what grounds? No one called you. You have no right. [[Vladimir Ilic, from place: For replica.]] Can we hear Ilic first, and I'll give you my word? Here you go, then Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1702	I'll just take two minutes, and shorter. It is clear that DS is in trouble and I understand it, I understand even this personal confession of Mr. Dulic. The responsibility you bear for the state of the budget, which we have been discussing for the second day, cannot be avoided in that way and obviously you do not understand the objections you have received. So, you have purposelessly spent the budget of the Environment Fund for the purposes of your ministry. That's quite clear. What might be good, you finally became aware that you were no longer in power. You also mentioned that the news headlines in time wrote about Mladjan Dinkic, the titles that you actually created as DS, and that's the kind of inaccuracies you have, within the government, where we were together. You have written lies through all your doctors, who you listen to today. I fully understand and sympathise with you, now that you are the target and victim of such inscriptions. I know what it's like for you, but don't, if you've already come down from power, to come down from the leading post in the opposition in this House. I think you're losing that place slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1703	The word has been made by MP Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1704	From what I understand, it all comes down to the fact that the 97.6% Fund spent absolutely on the development and protection of the environment, but it all comes down to car tires and you cut the Fund because of the car tires. That's not true. As regards tyres, the Waste Management Act established a model by which the quantities of specific waste flows are collected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are then recycled in recycling centres and the subsidy is paid, which is identical to subsidies that exist in all countries in the region, to processed waste. After the inspector's findings, the Fund paid exclusively processed, or recycled waste. That paper you have in front of you is absolutely false. So you've been misinformed. It's a similar kind of misinformation as at the beginning of this terrible campaign that's happening to the current opposition about the story of lions and I don't know what cages on Palic. It's a similar kind of misinformation. You come here and talk about a policy that you don't understand, you talk about something that's absolutely untrue, because when you mention 1.1 billion, it's paid for all the costs, or subsidies of the recycling industry in the territory of the entire country, not only about the battery and the tire, but also about electronic waste, waste oils and everything else, which have been collected and processed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So much has been collected and so much has been processed. It's all junk that's treated like dangerous. It was removed from nature, removed from the dump, recycled in accordance with European standards and created new jobs and created profits. I'd like to calculate, Mr Dinkic, you and I, how many of the subsidies you've given to businesses have opened up really jobs, and how much this miserable sum has opened in relation to the budgets you've had when it comes to environmental protection. The policy has opened 10,000 new jobs in Serbia. No kilo of imported waste has ever been subsidized from the Fund, I'm telling you. If someone did, he broke the law and I agree he should be punished. That's not what we did.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1705	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1706	On the same basis as you gave Mr. Ilic, as an authorised representative, and he mentioned DS in a negative context. So Mr. Ilic said that we in the DS have a problem. I don't know what he was getting at, he was probably counting on the election to be held at the DS. You know what, elections are one very democratic thing and, if elections are a problem, then you, Mr. Ilic, and your party, or your movement, or whatever, you have a problem, because since you've been at the head of your party, Mr. Dinkic and no one has ever stepped on the line, nor have you had the right choices. When it comes to what you have essentially come forward, it is the fact that Mr Dinkic is in trouble, because it is finally after 45 days of telling the truth, to be very mild, caught in those lies, not to tell the lies. So, Mr Dinkic will have to explain to you today whether it is true that 80% of the funds of the Environment Fund were spent on billboards? Please, Mr Dinkic, if you can tell the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia and specify that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1707	Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1708	So there's no two truths. There's one truth, according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection report, you don't tell Mr. Dulic these billions and 83 million 642.112 dinars only for imports of 140 tons of batteries and 13 tons of waste tires. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There'll be an audit. He'll check it out. This is the Ministry's report. These aren't small funds, as you're saying, because that's equal to one third of the total income of the fund this year. One-third was given for subsidies to encourage imports of second-hand batteries and tyres from abroad for the sake of probably not even saying for recycling, but for their disposal in Serbia due to recycling. It'll just be checked out. It can't be this or that. That's one thing. The second thing, from what we have as data, is that most of the fund's expenditure this year went to promotional political activities for the purpose of the election campaign. I stand by the words I said in the last period.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1709	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1710	Just some facts. Mr. Dinkic is not always leader of G17 Plus. I'll remind you the first leader was Mr. Miroljub Labus, former DS member. We also have regular elections, and I didn't mean that kind of choice-related problem in the DS. That's really your thing. You're right when you say Mr. Dinkic is in trouble. I agree with you. You're in trouble how to get this budget and the public finances out of the chaos that you've dragged him into. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1711	The word has been made by MP Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1712	I'm really sorry to have to take this again. Mr. Dinkich, I'm trying to convince you of one thing that is absolutely correct. Use untrue information. You got it from the people who deliberately planted that information so that you would be a spokeswoman and that you would be that fist of impact that should be lifted by the fund and that you would be the man who was trying to criminalise the work of an institution that was absolutely with the law. So, no billions and 100 million dinars were spent on imports of batteries and tires. The state does not import batteries and tyres. The State of the declared quantity controls, and only those quantities that are recycled at the prices defined by the Government Regulations. So that's not true. You made the truth that those tires and those batteries were stationed in Subotica. Tell me exactly where this happened? Tell me exactly where the tires and batteries are located in Subotica? Tell me that? Tell me, what do you think 80% of the funds are spent on a political campaign? The eighth political campaign is not considered to be the opening of recycling centres, recycling industry, subsidisation of recycling, employment of people in municipal enterprises, in the sense that clean up wild dumps, building a regional dump, building a wastewater treatment plant. Unless you consider the election campaign projects we've been working together, such as building aid. So you're giving out incorrect information and attacking completely unfounded people. There's a review to be made. I agree with that. Let him make every report that's ever been wrong and who's been breaking the law. But that can't be an argument to shut down one of these important institutions. Please, once again, tell me at which location exactly in Subotica are these batteries and those tires. You said that in a congregation debate. Although, you've been caught in the truth about this thing, be sure that I am, and all these people know that the truth is everything else you've brought out.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1713	Please, I appeal again. No one can prove anything here. So it's just a story to each other. That's why I'm asking you to bring the end. The truth is probably somewhere, and they'll know it. I'm asking you all to be in the process of events, during the agenda, and to bring this to an end. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1714	I won't talk about this anymore, but for the sake of the public, for the sake of all of you MPs, I want to tell you the truth. The unique customs documents show that 140 tonnes of used batteries and 13 tonnes of waste tyres have been imported. Come on, somebody tell me, who in Serbia would import second-hand batteries and second-hand tyres if they didn't get state subsidies to take care of recycling? The exact number is 140 tons and 13 tons of waste tires. So you encouraged private companies to import second-hand tyres and batteries from abroad to get subsidies from the state and recycled them. Wasn't the goal of encouraging the removal of domestic waste? Why should we recycle waste from all over the world? And you give money to private firms to do that? That's what you've been doing and that's the truth. You can see from the unique customs documents, there's no lies, there's no fraud. The unique customs document is there, you see exactly how much these used batteries and waste tyres have imported. No one but those who received subsidies under your program had any interest in importing it. That's why you have to admit that it may have been a good intention for you, which I don't know, I'm not sure after this, that you're the one to provide for that domestic waste. But if you really had what I suspect, really paying by a recycled tire and a battery, you would never have had this problem, and you would have done an analysis of how much domestic waste there is, and not memorized this kind of resources, so people you probably paid for, came to see and import huge amounts of used batteries and used tyres from abroad, just to get a subsidy from the state of Serbia and this people. This isn't paid for by the fund, this is what the people pay through taxes. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1715	Please. Since there's obviously no end here, I'm setting a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1716	We're going back to work. Mr. Dolliche, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1717	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. It is obvious that in the debate that was meant to justify the abolition of the Environmental Protection Fund, a completely incorrect and false argument was used and I would conclude this debate and tell citizens for the sake of the truth that the Environmental Protection Fund spent money on recycling specific waste flows in accordance with the law and that the fact that 140 tonnes of batteries or 80 tonnes of tyres are imported into Serbia is an effective amount compared to those generated in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Every year, 25,000 tonnes of tires and 27 thousand tonnes of batteries are collected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The environmental fund paid for recycling those quantities. As far as imported quantities are concerned, they do not exist and cannot be subsidized, and if that was the reason for abolishing the Fund he was completely unnecessary and incorrect. I ask that when Mr Dinkic comes to me only answers, I still did not get an answer at which locations in Subotic are recycled tires and batteries. When I get those answers, I'll apologize to the public for not telling the truth, and since I'm sure I won't get those answers, I hope I'll at least get an apology as someone who's been working with him correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1718	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1719	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any government representatives here. There are no representatives of the government, or there are no ministers. There are no ones who are authorized to represent, practically 24 draft laws in front of the government. We have 24 draft laws that we are currently talking about and I suggest we wait and then be able to do what I think is important for the government to hear and hear directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1720	I agree. We'll wait for the government's representatives and then we'll continue the session. I'm setting a break until someone from the government shows up. [[after breaks]] We can keep working. Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1722	It's an extraordinary pleasure to be able to continue our work. True, I obviously misjudged that there were reasons for the urgent adoption of all these 28 draft laws that were proposed in the emergency procedure, otherwise they wouldn't be having this kind of debate in the debate. The fact is that we have received 28 draft laws from September 11th, i.e. 28 draft laws have arrived in the Assembly and 12 draft laws on September 11th and 16 draft laws on September 14th. All of us, the MPs, 250 of us, were brought into a rather difficult situation that from that moment on, that is, when we were each individually able to get to know the texts of the bill, to see and to assess what was right and what was wrong or what was less right in all these drafts of the law. Now we're discussing 24 draft laws. Believe me, it's very difficult for us to make a statement in a few sentences on all 24 draft laws. I will try to point out that there is obviously no same relationship in relation to the laws that come into practice in front of this National Assembly. In particular, one bill arrived at the National Assembly on 30 August, which concerns facilitating the general budget and all those who are somehow responsible for solving social and other problems, namely the draft law, which was submitted on 30 August, concerns facilitating the budget, i.e. amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. As a legislator of the law, I didn't suggest it in an emergency procedure, but there were conditions for anyone who wanted to propose it for an emergency session. That just compares it to the laws that come into the process and when they're considered here on the tide. In particular, in terms of the bill itself, there are things that are good. For example, in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the asymmetrically prescribed interest for the delay of the State or the taxpayer for VAT and the return of excise duties is abolished. At this point, I'm not sure that the government's obligations to pay other things also involve calculating interest. I am also referring to the judicial verdicts and to what we find to be done because of the alleged budget blockade, for example, in front of the Kragujevac collection agency, for forced payment. So in this respect, I point out that this principle applied in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Bill should also be seen in relation to other State debts, if we charge the taxpayers interest from the date of maturity of the obligation. True, I cannot be so positively determined by other parts of the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, and above all, I will have to mention a specific member in order for you to be able to follow the essence of the Bill's proposal. This is about Article 28, Article 29 and Article 43. It's a bill of law. So, what's this all about? Article 28 states that the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration shall appoint the Government for a period of five years on a proposal from the minister. It doesn't define itself anywhere, and that's why I'm asking now, because all the laws in our legal system have the same legal power and the Law on civil servants and this law, if adopted. Does this mean the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration without a competition or with a competition, especially considering that in Article 43. The draft law for unit managers on the ground provides for a competition and even goes into detail what does a test of the conditions for setting up after a contest mean? In that sense, we should clarify that, especially given that I have the information, I do not know whether it is true, that on 13 August, the former Director of the Tax Administration was dismissed, that the Director of the Tax Administration has not been appointed to this moment, and that the decision whether the Ministry, Minister or Government, is now correct, put in place a person with certain powers to sign, in the sense that the Director of the Centre for High Tax Obligors is placed there. I'm not getting into the personality of it, but I'm still asking if this person is also doing this duty and signing business or not? In that sense, I ask the question and the bill itself, whether it's okay or not, but we'll be able to talk about it when we consider this issue in particular. I would refer briefly to laws that treat value added tax and excise duties. I'm not sure he's a member of the 28th. Proposal for a law in accordance with the Constitution, especially with regard to bringing into a different position of one and the other obligors in relation to themselves... Read Article 28. There's a difference in tax bonds. In that sense, I'm not sure. It's good to think about small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized bonds, but we should also think about large bonds, especially so that we don't come up with an artificial division of companies into small companies for entering a new collection system. This can happen if there are certain attempts to limit and condition security from it, but I'm not sure that the bill provides enough security in that part. I think we should keep an eye on that. In this law, I would welcome the good measure that social housing will now be covered by the suspension of the first apartment tax, which has so far escaped them because they have been paid in wars. That's good again, but again I'm telling you that every law proposed by emergency procedure deprives us of the opportunity to see the advantages in an adequate way, to see potential faults, to possibly correct these flaws with amendments. I was about a little later than the possibility of applying the amendments to the excise duty on cigarettes. Is that where he calculated 76 dinars or does it have to be 88 dinars? In that sense, there may be another chance for the Finance Committee to see if it's a mistake, a lobbying effect or something else, but let's see that part. Then, the regulation of stockpiling was moved to July 2013. It might be better if it was January 1st, 2013. The average stock is settled for 90 days. Maybe it should be 15 or 30 days, and all that I've been able to read right now is not a chance to submit the amendment and in some way influence, or suggest, right now, a better solution. Anyway, there are good things and there are things we can criticise and criticize. I am pleased that many objections and suggestions from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce have been accepted. Business suggestions have been accepted. True, I think we'll be able to examine whether there is still a need to abolish mandatory membership in the chamber system or not. In that part, we are somewhat contradictory of what we have now received in terms of the positive effects of proposing the chamber system. Finally, I think, since there has been a speech in Mr. Minister's Expoze and all these laws concern the final line of budget and budgetary system filling, we should consider if we are not already in a position to define both the budget and the Budgetary System Act for next year, to see how the reporting is done, especially on subsidies, to allow monthly reporting of subsidies paid, a six-month reporting of the effects of the subsidies paid, with the opinion of the Fiscal Council. I think it's a useful thing and it'll contribute, but it's a discussion of the next four laws. Finally, since the minister has arrived, I'd like to ask if I can get the information, in Subotica, where is the recycling center?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1723	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1724	Ladies and gentlemen, in his address as part of a joint principled search on 24 laws ahead of us, the minister who is the only one called for to explain the laws, said the collection of these laws the first step. It is the first step, but in the backwards and vice versa the first step back that will, in most of its measure, have a delayed fact, in six months, nine months or a year. I have no difficulty at all to say on the government's proposal that I support or do not support what I think about the measures being supported, but I have difficulty in telling me something that we do not have any information about what parafiscal influences are, what are obligations towards the EU and how local self-government works. That's what we're being presented here, I'm about to quote the minister, that the local self-government that has been awarded extra funds by law can't manage these funds, so he's going to ask to be delivered to the Department of Finance for reviewing what they're doing. Then, to be asked by local self-government to explain to the ministry all kinds of income. Listening to what the minister has as a comment and asking how can you advocate decentralisation if you don't trust that people who get the right to manage local self-government in the election know that they manage finance? It's bordered by the insult of being told about local self-government, I repeat whether it's local self-government where I know people from my party or any other local self-government. So, a little more careful with the public word, there wouldn't be any burning no matter what you think. When it comes to public speaking, it is also clear what will be used as a method to conceal the fact that 24 laws, which are proposed, are a step back and that almost everyone has a delayed fact. What will be used as a method when it is asked how much administration costs to return VAT, what will be used as a method when it is asked why in Article 12, the Minister independently determines everything he thinks should be determined? What will be used for each question concerning each of the individual draft laws or amendments and additions to the law? Political folklore will be used. A habit, a bad one, that we, politically active and all the other parties, take part in campaigns of indiscretion in public, carrying out false things, having political active parties and all the other parties to what is created by political indiscretion in the public. That's what we're witnessing, and it's not the first time. To avoid any confusion, I have always been against campaigns of political defamation, defamation, no matter who the victim is, and who with joy participates in such campaigns. A moment ago, we had the opportunity to testify that in a very simple way, what is false, and what are the facts in the pyramid of a political campaign of slander and lies about only one MP, Oliver Dulic, and so it could be about everyone. The reason why I mention this political folklore is that it satisfies the concealment of questions and facts about many of these laws, but three laws cannot cover a problem that arises by proposing and possibly voting on three laws. The law on chemicals, the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund and the Law on ionic radiation and nuclear safety. These three draft laws except that they have been submitted to us in a proposal where a harsh word is, but not well enough, a declaration of compliance with the EU. On the first page, it is prescribed what is part of the declaration of compliance when we have passed the law, and on the second amendment of the law without whether it is in accordance with the directives of Chapter 27, which, if I understand correctly, no one in this room would mind continuing European integration. These three laws, the Chemical Act, were passed with the abolition of the Chemicals Agency without repealing the following laws, creating a very serious problem for functioning and, more importantly, abolishing the legal assets of Chapter 27, concerning the protection of the environment. It knocks down what was agreed with the EU when the law was passed and debated and, most importantly, leaves an open question why are you doing this if you are for the EU? If you want to flirt with the rule of law that is gaining and building by participating in European integration, flirt, but then don't expect us to ask you not to bring into the Serbian Assembly a resolution on EU accession, to put it out of force. I suppose there's at least one parliamentary group who would still like to talk about it. You cannot entertain people from the EU who take care of Chapter 27 by political folklore, as you cannot entertain them with chapters 23 and 24. That's good news. Since the initial stories of what will happen to the justice reform so far, it has come to what needs to be, to correct mistakes, because mistakes have been made. But for these three laws, especially the Law on ionic radiation and nuclear safety and the Chemical Agency Act, are laws which, if we have knowledge of what our obligations are to the EU, must today be withdrawn from the procedure. Today. To make it a message to the ruling majority, that it is committed to European integration. If you leave them in the process, then you leave us room to say that it is not a political folklore campaign led against MPs or former ministers, but rather a political folklore to flirt with rules with which there is no flirting. When it comes to the Environmental Fund, the reasoning we heard in the exchange of arguments in the dialogue between MP Oliver Dulic and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the following – Minister Dinkic, on the basis of false data, claims that Minister Dulic abused and purposelessly spent money from the fund. National MP Oliver Dulic gives him information that proves that this is not true and that whatever it is, he is eager to establish anyone's claim of non-intentional spending of funds. What's the conclusion? Minister Mladjan Dinkic is demanding the removal of the Environment Fund, due to - no confidence in the minister. The reason for this is that the campaign on how to spend the fund is given as an argument – this one will guarantee to abuse that money, but we will take all that money into the budget. All that money will be decided by the finance minister, because it is undeniable and always known to everyone the truth that he never abuses any money. These are the problems with the argument and the political folklore. No one would be happier than me if you came here with measures that turn the Health Fund and the PIO Fund from indirect budget users into direct, changing the Treasury Act, the Budget System Act so that we really show a common political will for fiscal reform. This, unfortunately, leaves only doubt that you are really committed to European integration. If you are not, please state, we will continue to fight for the rule of law and for Europe in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1725	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1726	Mrs Komic, if you are committed to European integration, then you should know that it is important for the European Commission that certain functions exist in the legislation of the countries that are foreseen by the European directives, that not all the powerful agencies that exist now are necessary, but that the functions they perform are necessary. Whether a function will be performed by the Chemicals Agency or by another state body, it is the sole right of those who wish to join the EU or who are members to do so as they please. There are only a few institutions that must exist under the European directive. Among them, it's not the Chemical Agency. You should know that if you plead to know EU law. So the function of the Chemical Agency is important, the agency as an institution does not matter. These are differences - institutions and functions. We are not going to lift the functions of the Chemicals Agency, but we believe that it can be done rationally through another legal form. The same goes for the Environmental Protection Fund. There is no European directive that requires the existence of the Environment Fund, but of course there are obligations to protect the environment according to EU standards. This fund wasn't protecting the environment. This fund was purposelessly spent on environmental protection and is therefore being abolished. There's no other reason. The ministry will find a way that through the establishment of a directorate, whether through some other legal form, whether through the proposal of a programme that will be an integral part of the budget for each year, programmes for environmental protection are actually realised in practice, not just on paper, because the behaviour of those who managed the fund in previous years compromised this good idea. We also agreed with MP Milica Vojić and myself and all of you that this function is necessary, but that the idea is compromised, compromised by the irresponsible behaviour of those who have managed the fund in the past few years. That's one problem. The second thing, it is certain that the EU is asking, but that it is not only what it is asking for, we need to have the functions of these agencies. But these agencies can't behave by scratching the skin off the back of the machine by introducing undosed taxis. That's why we want to put order in so that the level of taxis can be carried out by parliament, essentially, and that not every agency can be independent, every commission has its own fees. It's all about what you said. I have already noted in the morning session that it makes sense to propose MP Milica Bojic, related to the Agency for the Protection of Ionian radiation and nuclear facilities of Serbia, that because of the fact that employees working in it are qualified, it makes sense to consider the possibility of staying, but at the same time abolishing the fees they charge. So, we will find a legal standard and accept your proposal to keep these institutions in the system, but at the same time we will not give up on the 15 fees they are now charging. That's exactly what you suggested. We'll find a way on committees tomorrow to find a solution that would go that way through the corresponding amendment. In this way, we will address this question whether professional or unprofessional persons will deal with this area that requires high qualifications. You were absolutely right there. I imagined it myself, when you said it, and I was communicating in this break with the minister. We agreed to do so, to cancel the fees, those 15 fees, but to leave the institutions. This applies only to those from the field of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. That doesn't apply to these others Mrs. Komic spoke of. Let me say something about local self-government. If you really want to quote what I said, I said the following – that the Fiscal Council found in its report that, among other things, not only in the Republic, but also at the level of local self-government in the first five months of this year, much higher spending on earnings and employment was observed, but because it is a normal situation, precisely because we need to do a comprehensive fiscal consolidation, which does not just mean reducing some irrational costs at the level of the Republic, the province. We have to do it on a local level. In what way? By prescribing the Law on the Budgetary System, local self-governments, when they adopt their annual budgets, must make sure that they observe the Law on the Maximum Number of Employees in Local Self-Government, as well as the Republic must adhere to that law at the level of the Republic and also, that the rules applicable to the Republic in respect of wages are applied consistently to local self-government. I must say, in some local self-governments, these rules were played through the fact that the Republic had bad records of all the institutions that were founded at the place. I blame that on the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. Local self-government probably used those holes to establish various institutions, hire people. But at the end of the total balance, there is a higher wage mass. This is nothing new. In all countries, the central government can and should control these parameters at all levels, on a consolidated balance of wages and employment in the country must be equally treated and controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Nothing more. I have no intention of getting into the freedom of local self-government to form capital investment budgets, to encourage certain things, however they wish, because it is the original right of local self-government. But the money that citizens give is from taxes on profits and taxes on property and should not be used for over-employment in the administration, for excessive pay increases, and we will control it in the next period. That's all I said. That's what the Fiscal Council found out, and I didn't say any more. Let me do it again. You're wrong about local self-government, you're wrong about the Chemical Agency, you're wrong about the Environmental Protection Fund. The only correct thing is that the functions of these institutions must be preserved, and whether it will be achieved through the Agency or through the Directorate or through the Administration, it is a matter of every Member State or candidate for membership, as it will be organised. How, then, do you explain that Germany, which is an EU member and a key member, has only eight agencies, and Serbia has over 100 and some agencies? Will someone tell us that the EU has asked us to start 100 and some agencies? That's not true. They're founded. Do you know why? Because at the beginning of their work they received donations and financed from foreign donations. As time passed, donations were too short, so they introduced fees and fees to businesses and citizens, so when there wasn't enough control and not enough money to fulfill some of the wishes of those agencies, then they introduced new taxes and new charges. That's how these parafiscal inducements were created. The donation-funded agencies began to finance themselves from their own taxis, their own revenues, and then went too far, went too far, and now we have total parafiscal burdens in the Serbian economy to be billions and a half of euros a year. This is the equivalent of one third of all tax revenue and profit contribution. So, if we theoretically abolish all parafiscal charges, and we are now removing one good part, two thirds, but not all, because others are very large, but are the income of local self-government, the effect is one billion and a half euros. It would be like now we've cut taxes and salary contributions by one-third, the same effect for discharging the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1727	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1728	Thank you, Minister. You've told it all very nicely, but I haven't asked you anything. I asked very clearly and it was about what was in the bill. But now I will just have a brief comment on the context in which we are passing these laws, so that I can share with you an assessment of why you answer questions that I do not ask you and why you answer other MPs, and please contact me to answer them. Only you know that. So, the context is that the Prime Minister said in an interview with "Politici" that he had never led the MUP, that it seemed that way, that the defence minister in his interview was talking about which list was being forced and should be released, which the paper should not be published. Then, continuing on that context, it's perfectly logical to me what you've actually told me, not to answer to me, but to many others, which is that, based on Article 12th of the Fiscal Law, and otherwise all the money will be with you, because you think that you should replace both independent institutions and regulatory bodies and people who care about budgets at other levels and all those who deal with public finances, in order to probably find that it means the place of de facto Prime Minister. So scrupulously defend the position that only you can worry about the proper distribution of the green dinar, that only you can know whether the agency or the directorate is saving, and the money remains the same, and the number of people remains the same, is an attempt to degrade all of us who, when it comes to European integration, are doing nothing but sincerely helping and supporting you, but not that you think that the finance minister must have everything in his hands and that both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have to ask him what's going to happen, and that the Minister, in charge of environmental protection, does not deserve trust that he has the fund. (President: Time. It's up to you, on all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1729	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1730	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are here all the time from one false assumption, from the economic assumption that, at the end of the 19th century, everything depends on the economic reason and that everything is subject to economic development. Unfortunately, in the 21st century, both in Europe and in South America, and more and more in Asia, everything depends on ecological development and everything depends on sustainable development and everything is subject to sustainable and ecological development and everything, even economic development, is coordinated with ecological development. If you accept that, then we should think a little bit more about green technologies and green things. As important as this is, we have data available on the European Agency's website, that global warming keeps increasing the number of premature babies and prenatal deaths. So much so that the topic of environmental protection doesn't matter, or maybe it's less important. We think it's very, very important. Getting ready for this session, we had the impression in the Greens that we would only be critical of the minister, and I can say a few things that we liked during this debate, but all of it, Ministers, is at the level of promise, and about VAT and its feedback. That really sounds tempting. We also welcome the government's intention to force itself to regularly pay private companies, private companies. The biggest debtors, and when it comes to the water industry, and when it comes to the environment, it is exactly a state, and the people who run private businesses are in big trouble when it comes to it. We can't lie here, we have to say hello, and we say hello. There can't be so many double arches that the state can do anything. When I say state, I mean companies and public enterprises. The state is allowed everything, it can be released from all payments, and the privates can't be. Also, I'd like to give another commendation when it comes to the Energy Act. We are prepared as "Green Serbia" to support it because it opens up the possibility that energy entities do not have to have licenses for energy facilities under one megawatt and that is good for small business and for medium-sized enterprises. Everything else is an ecological disaster. I'm sorry to have to say this, but everything else isn't just an ecological disaster, it's also a centralized ecological disaster. We don't give in to local self-government, and I'm surprised, given which side it comes from. Is it possible that only mind heads sit in ministries, agencies and funds, and that engineers, people who deal with life in local self-government know nothing, but you're going to tell them how money will be spent in local self-government? And then we'll build a pool in Obrenovac, where the thermal power plant is and where every third child has obstructive bronchitis, and maybe we'll do an electro filter on Zlatibor instead of doing it in Obrenovac. I think people at the bar need to have that kind of autonomy, to set their priorities and determine their own problems. We are still in the Ministry's Law on the anti-ecological character of this government. Unfortunately, this is to this day. Now we can talk about how they have an anti-environmental character. Tobacco excises – not that you can't get rid of one of the smoking by blowing a cigarette, but you can just stick to it by maybe buying some kind of social peace. What's this hoax to buy social peace like that? When it comes to smoking, you should make programs. "Green Serbia" is very clear about rehab programmes and subsidies for medical aid, as people who enjoy nicotine are some kind of addicts. We can't force them to give up smoking, but we can, as a social state, help them use rehab programs and get the state to help. If that's funny to you, I'm sorry it's funny to you, especially to those who understand themselves in the military industry and all that nonsense. We think there should not only be a excise on tobacco, but also a excise on the transmast and excise "Janky Food", because you know that our kids eat fried potatoes every day, drink sodas, eat drinks and eat unhealthy food because it's cheap food, because you don't tax it extra and because you think that if you save money today, that in 10, 20 or 30 years you'll be in some plus. No, our generations are born sick. Look at the medical statistics on very easily you'll see to it. When we talk about the Water Act, we cancel the only local tax, the only income that was from a local taxi – 50% belonged to local self-government. We forget that local self-government in those taxis should be working on plans to defend against second-row floods, for second-row waterways, and being prepared to respond in emergency situations. When it comes to the emergency program, it's a very good concept and there's nothing to object to. When we talk about the Law on the Elimination of the Environment Fund, we've heard all sorts of arguments. It's mostly an argument that we want to get him under control, but then we hear the argument that we want to end him. If we cancel something, then we can't get it under control. We also have an argument that it's not a good program. Maybe I can agree with you that the program could have been better, but the fund doesn't go away because it's not a good program or because someone isn't doing it right. You don't have the right to terminate an institution because you suspect someone didn't work well. In Europe, there are funds that are clearly marked as ecological and that is how it is done in Europe. Just because someone compromised the fund in your opinion doesn't mean that the fund needs to be abolished and that doesn't mean that we need to secure that money. I'm afraid that the moment this ecological dinar is taken care of, entered into the common register, his trail will never be seen again and will not be spent for ecological purposes. As you know, Tisa is dead. The Colombian's dead, they just haven't said that yet. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav is highly polluted and probably someone could say they're dead. The canals are loaded with both fecal and industrial waste water, and we're removing a fund that should invest in such things. I ask you not to look at life only through current economic gain and only through money, not to look at that economic vision and that this moment of short-term improvement, we lose generations and generations that come in the coming years. We think that this is very important and that those flossulas used very often by your colleagues, that it is better to die of pollution than hunger, should not be used and not be used. We don't think anyone should die, and especially not to die of pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1731	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1732	I couldn't agree more with you. The problem is, that money wasn't used to prevent pollution and wasn't used to clean up Tisa, to clean up the rivers you were talking about. That money was used for an advertising and propaganda campaign, used to buy, I don't know, a computer for the ministry. What does that have to do with protecting the environment? I support your intentions. I'll be the first to introduce a boost to the introduction of green technologies. Is that the Environment Fund working? Well, it's not. The closure of the Fund does not mean the abolition of environmental programmes. On the contrary, environmental programs need to get more money than they ever had when the Fund existed. Why? Well, because the Fund spent that money on other things. That's the problem. That's what I'm going to explain until every single person here is clear. If the Fund's income was three to five billion dinars per year, only one small part of that environmental tax is abolished, and that's the one used to register the vehicle, 500 dinars that were paid, that's all. Everything else remains in the system, all pollution charges remain, they are not abolished because they are properly introduced. Secondly, revenues from environmental taxis, which have been so far, local self-government revenues remain local self-government revenues, incomes that were republican remain republican. In the local self-government, no one will interfere to make greater separations to protect the environment from those environmental incomes they receive. You're right, that's what Obrenovac has, that's what Paracino has, that's what other cities have. Let them make it, quite freely, I support it 100%, larger local environmental funds that they get from environmental taxis. Come on, please, do an analysis of whether all the local self-government all those environmental revenues they get are used to protecting the environment. I can bet you'd have the same results as for the Republic Environment Fund and that it would turn out that no dinar from the environmental tax goes much less on the loose end of environmental protection. So, I want to be perfectly clear about this, I'm in favour, and I've always stood up for it, and I'm going to stand up for full autonomy for local self-government, for full autonomy and free choice. The only thing that can't be autonomy is whether in the republic, whether in the province, or in the local, rampage in excessive employment, excessive salaries of state, local or regional administration. Just that and nothing else. Everything else should be the freedom of local self-government to develop their city, their municipality in a way that they consider to be the most comprehensive, and the important segment in this is environmental protection. So, so that we don't just talk about ecology, when I'm talking about eliminating these own incomes, I'm going to give an example, which you yourself mentioned, the Emergency Fund. What have we decided? We have decided that the Emergency Fund, that is, part of the Ministry of the Interior which deals with fire protection, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters and so on, that they have a budget item within the Ministry of Interior, which is fixed, which is in line with the needs, rather than financing them, for example. tax on tickets charged for sports events and games. Therefore, emergency situations, i.e. the cost of removing the consequences of natural disasters, are now being financed for example. Part of the fee that citizens pay when they go to games, they get paid some taxes, which makes tickets more expensive and with two different taxes. The revenue from this is uncertain, and they need fire trucks, they need equipment to fight elementary disasters. Instead, we in the budget, if the Assembly of course approves it, will set out a specific budget that will have an item for emergency situations, which will be even bigger than what we received from taxis, because it is important that the item is increased, for example. These fires we've had this year. There's always some accidents, sometimes floods, sometimes, here's the fires. Which means there'll be environmental protection programs left. I would ask the Green Party to propose concrete, new programmes if it considers that the Environment Fund's programmes were not good. The same thing I ask all other parties who want to deal with environmental protection, but to be programs that are in line with some normal standards. Incentives for the introduction of green technology? Great! Let's get that in. It's worth the budget money, but there doesn't have to be a fund for that money to be given for that purpose. You'll always be able to when the law is passed to see how much money is intended for environmental science, as you can see now how much it is for agriculture. While it was this budget fund – the Environment Fund – you could hardly know what their budget was. You could only find out indirectly by collecting all the fees they charge because they're funded from environmental taxis. You will now know in the budget what is the item for environmental protection that the Republic sets out. You'll see, when you compare that item to the one really used by the Fund to protect the environment, and not to some other non-purpose uses, it'll be bigger. I just want to explain the logic to you, because I think you've said all of this well on purpose, which is because I saw from the previous introduction that and some things that aren't related to environmental problems, in a way, you understood correctly. That's what I was going to say, therefore, to protect the environment, but the institution that was in charge of it was compromised. This is not the question of the minister, you have a director in that institution, you have some employees, if they spent money for years, as I said, to encourage imports of second-hand batteries, second-hand tyres and other things, how can we say that they will do this job differently in the future? This is how, when the Assembly adopts any budget item, it is the law, the Budget Act that must be implemented, and it is up to you and the public to monitor and demand the Government, above all, to single out appropriate environmental protection. That money that stands out really goes away for those purposes, not for some propaganda, called education. What kind of education is that, people? You can go to the Public Service and ask for a free term, so experts can talk about how people should behave in order not to pollute the environment, to explain the importance of climate change and agriculture, and society in general, and not to make beautiful billboards. Only if there's an education through billboard and ad in the paper. That's something that was irresponsible. I suggest we put an end to this behavior and use the money from the environmental taxis for the purposes that are intended, which is to protect the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1733	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ivan Karic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1734	Thank you. I agree with what you said about the public service, but it'll only take an hour after midnight. Is that what we give 500 dinars for? You used to know what to look at in an hour after midnight. Is this a public service that all citizens pay to learn emissions, cultural emissions, environmental emissions only within one hour of midnight can be shown. Please, you want to cancel the Fund, and you don't want to cancel your subscription to RTS. I think it's more important than cutting off the fund. Are we equating the budget fund and the Environment Fund? We have the impression it's not the same thing. Our amendment went that way. It's important to mark the ecological money. Remove everything, do not remove the budget fund, which will be the item in the budget and will be called – ecological and we will know how much money there is in that item. Don't let us do this to defuse, to defuse that money. I can only take your word for it, nothing more, that you'll invest where you need to be. Serbia's public company nuclear facilities, we'd better not talk about it, stop it as soon as possible. I ask you to really consider this about the budget fund, because it's very important. It's the only way to finance projects. Don't talk about cases, we're talking about principle. You know that environmental stories are mostly treated differently, credited differently. Let's build a fund to do it from. You won't convince me that by removing the fund, changing management and bringing in the program that this new fund is going to work on and there's no need to shut it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1735	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1736	Let me ask you, how long has my MP group been left?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1737	There's 12 and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1738	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, says "Economist" and for this bill -- the removal of 138 parafiscal accusations is a classic throw of dust into the eyes. They say citizens should not hope for any improvement after this measure, because besides the larger VAT, excise and other taxes, the removal of the harrassors will not be felt. When I applied for the discussion, I risk passing as my colleagues. One colleague was severely accused, and another was lectured. I'd like to ask you if you feel responsible as Minister of Economy, i.e. Minister of Economy for the difficult position of small and medium-sized enterprises? That's what I'd like to hear, not give a lecture. What was important to me and what I noticed, I'm going to show on this case, are amendments to the Law on the Forests, where one item is deleted in one article 82, and that item is a protection, use and improvement of the generalized functions of the forest. When I dealt with this article in detail, it says this: the payment code 253, is the recipient of the budget of the Forest Fund, the basics, or the rate is 0.025%, and when divided into 12 months, one economic operator that has an annual turnover of 40 million has to pay that fee at the monthly level of 833.33 dinars. Is it going to help, since it says in the light of this law, to create new economic operators, i.e. new small and medium-sized enterprises? I don't think so. I think your ministry, since it's holding the Development Fund, should be doing some other things. These are export reliefs for small and medium-sized enterprises, a reduction in interest rates, e.g. The Fund for Development up to 4.5%, as much as in Belgrade, at 1%, and the guarantee of repaying credit is a production equipment, not a mortgage on buildings and other assets, so that employers who employ new workers through the National Employment Service are paid by millions of dinars as foreign persons, to ensure the security of the collection of claims by businesses and to offer an attractive programme to our diaspora and state subsidies to companies dealing with renewable energy sources. What's also very important, is that you of all these parafiscal duties, I must say, according to my knowledge, have proposed 69 in earlier governments, and voted for 190. Do you feel responsible for that? On the other hand, citizens should know that there are 131 agencies in Serbia, to pay in the agencies between 100,000 and 500,000 dinars, that this giant tree costs Serbia around 820m euros. That's how we record in Europe. Illustrations work, Germany has six, the Czech Republic 11 and Croatia 47. I don't think that a set of these measures can practically respond to its task and can't help either economic operators or citizens, and local self-government will be in difficulty and therefore I won't vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1739	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1740	I'm not surprised you won't vote for this law when it's common and good that there's wood. Shumarina is the best example of the indisputable introduction of parafiscal duties in the Serbian economy. If you introduce some fee as a percentage of the total income of all businesses in Serbia, regardless of whether they have anything to do with this activity, such as forestry, it only says that you don't care about these entrepreneurs and the domestic economy. Whether it's small or much, 0.025% of the total income, let the people who deal with entrepreneurship and run companies assess themselves. Of course it is a larger sum for those who have higher incomes, and smaller for those who have fewer, but it is unnecessary and unsuspectingly introduced. But given that there's not only one form like that, there's 200 of them, and I don't know how many parafiscals, that when you add a lot of small ones, you get a billion and a half euros on an annual level. Parafiscal intrusions have just been introduced by introducing one at a time. A small one does not make a big problem for the economy, however, when 200 and something is introduced, you have a billion and a half euros in cost directly to the economy and citizens. Therefore, the forest, introduced by Minister Dragin of Time in the Forests Act, must now be thrown out and generally abolished the principle that anything can be introduced by taxis as a percentage of total income or such categories. As I have mentioned many times, the tax should correspond to the value of the compensation that someone provides to the person who provides it. As for the information about my possible participation and responsibility, I am responsible for a tourist fee that we are now abolishing. Even this privatisation fee was introduced at the time of more Ace Vlahovic, when he was making the law, and Mr Cvetkovic, who then assisted him. So, all these mainly compensations relate to the Ministry of Finance's administrative fees. I haven't been a finance minister in this country in six years since 2006. As many as 85 of these fees are the subject of the Ministry of Finance's work, six MUPs, six of them are the Ministry of Transport, and 10 are judicial fees, so the Ministry of Justice, 15 from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy and 15 from the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. It's the structure of those that are republican, plus there are these local ones that are also being abolished, 12 local taxis and five combined republican-locals. You asked if I felt responsible for the difficult position of small and medium-sized enterprises. I feel and that is why I have also accepted to be Minister of Finance and Business now, because while I was only Minister of Economy I could not get the understanding to abolish these taxes of power systems, I had no understanding that the guillotine of the rules that the entire economy required to implement in practice, because then whoever was running the government had no power to, no matter how much they agreed, implement it in practice. In the tax administration, in customs, in the inspection of guillotine regulations, which is a great idea I ran, could not be implemented precisely because there was no will of the people who led the government to do so to the end. I've taught many unnecessary procedures in the portfolio I've conducted, and triple-reporting employees and checking out at the National Employment Service at the Health Insurance Fund and in the pension fund, it doesn't exist anymore. I abolished all kinds of unnecessary procedures at the Ministry of Economic Relations with the foreign trade, but I couldn't lift certain things that were not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, or economy, as the ministry was then called. That's why now I can do something I've always wanted to do in the past government, and I didn't have the support of my partner at the time, and now I can do it with the pertners who want real change in Serbia. Do I feel responsible? Yeah, because something that could've been done years ago is only done right now, but I feel pleasure because finally something that the economy has been looking for for years we've been going to work. Will this be enough for us to adopt at this session? No, I've said that more than once. I have no intention of stopping, nor does the government intend to stop. This is just the beginning of the work of this government. We've been working 45 days and we've been cutting 138 taxi parafiscal charges. Is that dust in the eyes, which the businessmen will have 10 billion dinars less than a hundred million euros? I don't think so. I don't think it's likely something that'll solve all their problems, but it is one step that someone before us, and he could've, at the finance ministry, never made. Is it a small step that we will no longer have the excessive spending of budget money through uncontrollable spending on our own incomes? That's a big step. Ask if you don't trust us and fiscal advice, ask the IMF, ask all external people if you don't want to believe what I'm saying about it. We will save 200m euros on this basis next year, as our own revenues are direct budget beneficiaries that we now abolish 400m euros. Half of these expenditures are unnecessary, half necessary. That's some rough judgment. On that basis, we'll be saving on the bulky side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1741	Thank you. Mr. Cvetkovic is right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1742	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you mentioned my name, so I'm using the right to use the replica. I want to tell you that at the time of Ace Vlahovic and I, who have assisted, no fees have been introduced. At the time, the Privatisation Agency was financed from the budget and all the funds it was making went directly to the budget. So for the sake of proper information, since I have the impression that here now, untested, various information has been provided that has recently been represented by individual manners. When I took a minute, I didn't use a minute, and I took a word, I just want to tell you that you weren't in the O.R. when your colleague spoke and asked you a question, did you stay here and answer where the recycling centres in Subotica are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1743	Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1744	I mentioned tire warehouses, not recycling centres. So, I wasn't talking about recycling centres in Subotica, I was talking about warehouses, payloads for taking care of used tyres imported, among other things, from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1745	Thank you. The word is Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1746	I don't think we ministers understood each other at all. I prepare very well for the meetings of the Assembly even though the material does not arrive on time, I asked you something else. First of all, I don't stand for this forest, I've just explained what a small sum it is. Whether an amount of 833 dinars can help create new small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. new business entities? That's a question for you. Second question. You were headed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and you stayed here. Do you think these measures that you have proposed are sufficient for these small and medium-sized enterprises, and there are over 500 that do well in Serbia, to overcome all this crisis? You didn't answer me. You were also the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund, why you did not push for less interest, for a change in the guarantee of the repayment of loans, you could, of course, in that position and you were Minister of Economy. How do you propose to ensure the security of the collection of claims, and this part that is related to the National Service, that people who hire people on the National Service's records can get more resources to get these people employed? In that sense, I think that your responsibility is great, and all of this you put on the previous Ministry of Finance, you have to say that, as far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, I am one of those MPs who has visited all of Serbia and almost all small and medium-sized enterprises, I have seen the problems these people face. So, is it a responsibility not to increase that number of small and medium-sized enterprises and whether these measures with such small taxes being taken down, I support it, but it will not solve the problems of private and businesspeople in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1747	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1748	As for interest on the Development Fund, you're wrong. They were small and now they're relatively low. They were from 1% to 4.5%, they were never bigger. Mostly for most loans are about 3% and never greater than 4.5, and for some undeveloped areas they were 1%, 2%, so it's not about interest rates. I'm talking to the Development Fund. It is a problem at the interest rates of commercial banks, which are very high for reasons we will certainly talk about in the next period. Absolutely, if you wanted to understand me well, you can understand that this is just the first package of measures we've done in the first 45 days. Did the government run by your party do anything like this in four years, not 45 days? That's the real question. Could we have done more than this in 45 days? You can say that maybe someone could have done more. Are we done with this? No, I don't. We're only at the very beginning, because we're starting from a deep minus, which we've also found a budget deficit, and a huge public debt, and a huge number of parafiscal burdens that we are now cleaning and prohibiting the creation of new parafiscal burdens. What are our next steps, if you're interested? An even more radical reduction in the budget deficit, but also the creation of conditions for interest rates to fall in Serbia. They're high now for a few reasons. Not everyone's in the government's domain. Some are in the government's domain, some are in the central bank's domain. With a percentage of what's called. "MPL" or "non-chargeable" claims, with such a minimum reserve rate, you cannot count on a lower interest rate in Serbia, and you know who is responsible for that. Those who ran the Central Bank until recently. Serbia's government's responsibility is to reduce the country's political risk. It is the government's responsibility in every country. And it's the government's responsibility to create an investment climate to make investment conditions better. The conditions for investment will be better once we clear these parafiscal burdens, as one thing. When we create conditions for further tax cuts on profits, or taxes on production. So they also contribute to pay taxes. Of course, the moment the situation changes in our main markets. But the fact is, what we've done so far is maybe a small step, but much bigger than what wasn't done in the previous period. I'm just glad I have a lot of responsibility right now, and I'm not going to run away from it at all, for what's going to happen in the coming years. I'm not running away from that responsibility, I'm sure it's going to be difficult, and secondly, that we're going to make a good move and make positive changes in our economic system. If you want to help me with that, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1749	Thank you. I'd be done now, but let's do it one more time. Here you go, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1750	Well, here's the thing. You know, when someone listens to this discussion, I apologize, but I'd like to conclude that you've just arrived from another continent and you have no idea what's been going on in Serbia for 12 years, without the intention of offending you. Simply, if I had been Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and if I had dealt with small and medium-sized enterprises, and Prime Minister Cvetkovic said it couldn't, I would have left the government. At that moment, I would pull my people out of the party and leave the government, because it's harmful to the state. It can't be that on one team that works, which is the government, that everyone does their part of the job and that only DS representatives are responsible for this economic crisis. The simple DS for the past 22 years isn't all the time in power, you were, and that's why you're taking responsibility. And as for the development of the economy, I absolutely think there is one apology and people's MPs, and also the citizens of Serbia for some unpopular measures, moves, and I just can't believe that you've introduced only two fiscal commitments, i.e. two 300 acres as far as it was introduced, and all other DS ministers introduced the others. I can't believe it, and I hope not the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1751	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1752	You, unfortunately, don't know a lot of things, here, I didn't mean to talk about this, but I'll say it anyway. No, you have no information, that's what I mean. First, in every state, it is the finance minister who allows or disallows the introduction of parafiscal imposes. So, count how many parafiscals there were by 2006, and how many there were after 2006. My responsibility is to determine that from 2004 to 2006, you have increased that number, and I assure you that you will see, count freely, you do not have to today, when you have a chance, that it is reduced. The tax on financial transactions was abolished as early as 2004. I remember that. The tax on the fund was abolished, which once existed many others. It was abolished by the government then run by Kostunica and I was the finance minister. But look how long it really was until 2006 parafiscal charges. So the finance minister is responsible for their introduction and the finance minister is the only one who can reduce them, as I am now doing, here, six years after that first term I had. Another thing about responsibility, when you say you fell from Mars - why didn't you leave the government? Did I stay in the government for the rest of my term? And do you know why? That's what I want to tell you and maybe I wouldn't say if you weren't so curious. So, because of an example like the one from Valjev or the one from Vronjska Banja. Here's another MP who knows all about it. He's here. He's sitting in the back row. What's this about? If you have a situation where no one has seriously invested in Serbian spas in the last 30 years and the Fiat has appeared in the area of Banjska tourism, the company that is ready to invest in Vrnjačka Banj, that that skeleton from the unfinished hotel, I think it is a "Fontana", completely renovated and that the state has a shared investment with them half-half, and then your colleagues, some of them from the government, were then out of government, and then they went to the head of the Royal District and they say – prevent Dinkic from ending that investment, his party will win, as did his election in Bora when they built the cannon and improved the mine. Then we take them, take them out on the Kraljeno-Kruševac highway with banners – Dinkic, sell someone else's, not ours. And who's coming out? The workers of the municipal administration your party is driving on the highway to prevent investment. What happens next? Galimatias, a serious investor, Europe's largest Banish Tourism Company, is seeking reception with the president of the Republic. The President of the Republic says - green light, this investment should happen, just let the prime minister decide whether the procedure is right. The tender was called, a tender already approved by the government, has passed. Then he goes to the prime minister for a meeting, the prime minister says -- my party complains that maybe that amount of investment of 40m euros, 20 directly and 20 credits is insufficient to prove the value of the investment, let some auditory house be hired. Then a tender is announced for the auditory house and after half a year I am called by one of your party colleagues, who is not now in the best relationship with your president, and says – Young people, raise your hands from it, my party will not invest in the spa because they are afraid politically that the development of Vranjska Banja would endanger their local government. After the election, what's going on? You are no longer in power in Vranjska Banja. Example number two is Valjevo. Also, the situation is that Burning makes a decision to build a factory in Zajecar. Then there's political pressure, and there's falseness that I'm supposed to hold hands with Burning, and I'm personally taking them to Zajecar to build a factory, and I'm taking them from Valjev. Why? They say if it is done, our party will win the election in Valjev. I'm talking about your colleagues, and that's why I'm saying you didn't have any information. What happens after two years of that moment? The factory in Zaječar is really built, but the factory in Valjevo is also built. In this way, in a way that has been politicised by land management, where money is intended for ecology spent in the pre-election campaign, where the purchases of second-hand tyres and batteries from abroad, where investors are prevented from investing, we have come into a situation where Serbia has a situation like this – to be in debt at abnormally high interest rates to finance the budget deficit. We want to change that. If you don't like the change, you'll vote against it, I can't deny it, nor do I intend to. It's your legitimate democratic right. And Serbia really needs change. Changes in the sense that if we see that we have a problem with the issue of building permits, if the World Bank has ranked us in 170 and some place in the world at the speed of issuing building permits, then whoever was in charge of it should say that it's not right, that it was badly done. Let's change that. The bottom line is that what was bad, should be called bad, and what was good, should be called good, and what should be done, the whole country should work, in a direction that is good. In my opinion, it's the only right path, and that's why we and our government need to expand our consensus. I'm convinced we'll succeed. I'd like your party to support these laws, too. But if you won't support them, if you won't support the abolition of 138 parafiscal charges, if you're against the abolition of company for craftsmen, for entrepreneurs in Serbia, you vote against it. But then people need to know that you're against it. That's your thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1753	Thank you. Mr. Micunović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1754	We've been here two days to witness Mr. Dinkic's monologue. He spoke more alone, twice, than all 250 MPs here. That doesn't sound like Parliament then. Maybe more at some symposium, where he'd be the only lecturer. In that case, that would be possible. But in normal parliaments, it would be the minister's duty to answer the question briefly, and as many MPs as possible to ask those questions. Instead, Mr Dinkic did not answer more than 50% of the questions, to confirm a certain truthfulness, and, of course, he talked about quite different things. I refer to a member of the 106th that says that the speaker must speak, therefore, also apply to the minister, as well as to the MP, on the agenda. He can't lead the controversy here, pre-election, he forgot the election's over, against the DS. Let him speak seriously about things he can prove. There were all kinds of slanders here, untrues, for example, this warehouse in Subotica. Tell him who he is, five times they asked him, he didn't answer that. Of course, there's a bunch of other things he didn't answer to. What's worse in the whole story is that Mr. Dinkic really isn't from this movie. He has never dealt with finance, business, economic development, or funds, he simply has nothing to do with it, and there is no other politician in this country who has spent longer than he has in the government, dealing exclusively with finance and economy. A man can say, "I was wrong, I like to be in power at all times, but give me a new chance and see what I can do." And no - I had nothing to do with this, I was always opposed to that opinion, and when I was Deputy Prime Minister, etc. All of this leaves one inconclusive and bad impression that we can't establish dialogue here and that story that we're going to criminalize one part of the government, and the other that goes through the press... (President: Time, Mr. Micunovic. )......................................................................................................... And that the other part, which kept the ministerial chairs, would remain morally and politically preserved here. Unfortunately, citizens still have some memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1755	Thank you. The word is Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1756	Mr. Dinkic, you didn't voluntarily leave the government, but Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic asked you to be relieved, so you are relieved here in parliament. It didn't occur to you that you were coming out of that government, as everyone here knows, and to these people who are watching us. The other thing is, you always have some wrong ideas and some weird picture of the world and life. So, as far as Vrnjaka Banja, from Belgrade, from the DS, no one was doing it outside of what Vrnjačka Banja and not DS, I can't say about G 17 plus, your party at the time, and all the other parties sent here as cry for help and rescue. There's parliament there, so I'm not sure if it's unanimous, but surely with, say, the four-bit majority asked for the privatisation not to take place, so I don't know what kind of problem you have with DS, you've had a problem with people in Vranjska Banja, with the entire local parliament's council. They failed to explain that it was a good thing. It's important that people know what the truth is and what the facts are, and every fact will interpret as it seems to fit the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1757	Thank you. Mr. Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1758	Mr. Petrovic, I've been to Vranjska Banja for quite some time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1759	Please, Mr. Ilic, do not address the MP directly. (Employees of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, from the post: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1760	Replica, G17 plus is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1761	So Vladimir Ilic came forward as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1762	I was in Vranjska Banja at the time that investor was rejected, which was supposed to reconstruct a complete hotel, to invest 40m euros. So I attended a strike organized by the municipal administration. The president of your party's municipality took people out and literally acted on your orders. Those are his words. He said you told them to boycott. It wasn't the people who worked at the Mercury Hotel that boycotted, it was the strike and the boycott that led the people of the municipal administration under pressure, under the threat of being fired. That's true. I was there, live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1763	Thank you. Mr. Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1764	I've never issued any warrant of that kind, nor have I been able to betray it. You're telling a complete lie. Has anyone told you anything in Vranjska Banja or has it done to you, Mr. Ilic, that I would not already burden this parliament here with it, but it is such nonsense, that it would not eat a dog with butter. Just as Mr Dinkic volunteered to leave the government, it is the same kind of reality, the degree of truth of your statement about this in Vrnjačka Banja.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1765	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1766	Thank you. I really think that although we are talking about very important changes to the law, Mr. Dinkic, you definitely have a reality problem, but I think now you're already talking about these things and you don't feel that they might not be in love with the truth. I even think it's already a chronic state, which is politically, to be exact. So, you said no money was given for organic waste storage, and only last year was given a billion and a half dinars. It's just one example, and there's a lot of them. It is not convenient for you to call for billboards, just because you, if we all remember well, through the same billboards for an unmarked amount of funds to citizens before the election campaign and before something called the URS, explained the advantages of regionalisation. You even made video videos with singing bakers and things like that. Of course, that was before the campaign and before the U.S.S. campaign, and you were saying at the time -- we had nothing to do with it, and what, wonders, when the campaign started, the same billboards and the same singing bakers. That's very interesting. By the way, these savings you've achieved have been less than you've spent on a failed project of economic ambassadors that everyone, unlike a few exceptions, has proved to be consumers and a complete economic disaster, not ambassadors. So, you're of 205 parafiscal commitments, which Serbian citizens must know, you proposed 69 for adoption, Mr Dinkic, and you voted for another 125. You've only built four bodies or agencies in the government for regional development. Then she started her own income to abolish the previous government in March 2012, 24 of her own incomes, the most significant ones, not you. You've been talking about decentralisation for the past two years, breaking people's ears about it, and how local self-government knows best how to manage their finances, now you're ending it. When you've reached the central register, you've abolished the local fees, you're centralizing incomes, and you're limiting expenditure at the local level. We welcome the government's public pressure to accept the VAT refund for baby equipment. Otherwise, it's a decision made by the previous government, and you've put it out of practice. We welcome you to one reasonable level. The increase in VAT may be economically meaningful, but it is politically and morally embarrassing, since you claimed in the campaign that it would not come and promised the citizens that there was nothing of an increase in VAT and you were, as in 2004, the most bitter advocated the introduction of fiscal cash registers, but from now on we see that there is nothing and it is very bad for our legal and political system, because citizens will think – it is all temporary and only that when we pass this, they will go back to the past. As salaries and pensions are frozen, respected citizens, the budget increases the amount of salaries and, behold, miracles, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. Can you imagine that? Of course, some of these measures are good, but they're psychological, as say businessmen, which is what you and how you get to know each other. You're only cutting off some of the agencies, and there are 131. Since yesterday, you've listed the fees you've been removing, and it's been fascinating to know all those taxis, and we've heard a lot of comments that confirm that you know a lot about them because you brought them. Transferring funds through income taxes to the bar didn't cause a deficit, you're right. The deficit caused the government to be obliged to cover expenditures because of your blackmailing policy of the funds, i.e. Income transferred to the local. The subsidies are without public and assembly control and they will eat the budget and we propose through amendments to establish a mechanism before the Finance Committee for the regular control of individual subsidies and we will get support for this and those offered to enter you in the government and the government itself. In the end, this is all naked demagogy and there are no real savings, unfortunately, just pressure on the citizens, prices rise, everything accumulates, it goes on in debt, and you were the first to say that it's terrible that we're in debt, and I see that this trend continues. The citizens will not be better off than these measures of yours, and you need to get out of the way of unargued criticism and the lies you've brought here very much. Don't talk about savings and don't talk about Tomica Milosavljevic and what he left the Ministry of Health, a man who only had three PR firms at the Ministry of Health. Where's that recycling center in Subotica that you said existed? Now it has turned out – I was talking about the tire warehouse, and you will say later – I was only talking about tires. Well, there's a tire on the cars in Subotica. Maybe that's what you're thinking? Mr. Dinkic, this isn't personal, you're like a master when he comes to the apartment and there's all kinds of shit in the household, so ask me to come and fix it, so you come, fix it all in the apartment, and then he dies again, and you come back and say, "Who's been doing this to you, what does this look like?" It's you, Mr. Dinkich. That's what citizens know, and it can't be erased. Otherwise one small observation at the end. You once said to be the same, to be special, to be yourself, which I otherwise appreciate that man very much whom you quoted. You're really the same. You're the same man who's always with money in this country, always with machinations and manipulation, you're special because there's nothing you can do about it, Mr. Dinkic and you're really just yourself and you don't care about anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1767	Thank you. Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1768	Since you're on music, was your band called "Generation Without Future"? It's not important to name the band "Generation Without Future", each of those years gave names to bands according to their age. However, it is important that this country's policy is not such that our generations are without a future. That is why the changes we are talking about in this congregation are needed. I repeat again. While I was a finance minister, I reduced the number of parafiscal duties, even some general tax forms, abolished the financial transaction tax and abolished the income fund tax. These were two large tax forms. Take a look at the archives from 2006 until today how many of these taxis, which are now being abolished, have been introduced, so you will see that none of them have been in jurisdiction or perhaps just one, this touristic, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy. They were all in the jurisdiction of other ministries. So you didn't tell the truth. So you didn't tell the truth. What is important, you cannot put into the same level of use of an ecological dinar without purpose for the purchase of billboards and the use of the funds of political parties under the Law on the financing of political advertising parties. Well, I guess all parties should be advertised in accordance with the Law on Political Parties, not in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Whether the Environmental Protection Act is written for the party, even if yours is advertised in a pre-election campaign or for the protection of the forest. That's what this is about. If we're talking about non-intentional budget spending, that's the problem. Is it necessary to prevent any party from advertising, advertising and leading political propaganda for the ideas it advocates from own sources, in accordance with the law? Here's the problem that the Environmental Protection Fund has been used for these purposes. That's the problem and it needs to be clearly separated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1769	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1770	Article 106. Rules of Procedure. This debate has been going on for several hours, I just think it's about time we intervened. So you have to warn Mr Dinkic. I have no doubt that he is convinced that all parties should be financed and are subsequently advertised in accordance with the law, but it is also not good, or it is not legal for parties to advertise as citizens' associations. That's what your political organization has been doing for several months, Mr Dinkic. So when you see a problem with others, it would be good to see it with you, or if you want to establish a new concept. There will be time to continue to talk about similar things that you have all done, indirectly advertising your policies and political parties. To open up the issue of newspapers, publications, advertising and advertising of public enterprises that controlled or controlled individual political parties in Serbia, from JAT magazine to the Voice of Insurance in the Pension Fund. But there will be opportunities to discuss budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1771	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1772	Speaking of masters in the house, the press asked me in the press room, what the debate and the situation in the O.R. looked like. I thought of a picture that we can almost see every day, when a pipe breaks in a street, what we usually see. We see a dug hole, someone who's in a hole, trying to put that pipe together, patch it up, and you see five or six people around that hole, usually one eats a barrel, the other reads a newspaper, the third phone, so you guessed, the fourth one runs to the boss to rat, the fifth one throws it to him -- watch what you do, you'll mess it up, you'll ruin everything, and it's right around the hole that's the one that's the pipe and the drill that's done the damage. Well, you don't understand what this is about. He's trying to fix what you ruined, that's what this is about. So, if you can easily recognize the roles of this story, who snitches, who eats burek, who drinks beer, who smokes, who goes to the boss, that's the situation, and it's really not easy for him. Someone even mentioned that this is all a step back. And it is a step back, a step back from the break-in we're facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1773	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1774	I'm sorry, if I raised my voice, it wasn't my intention. So the problem is with that hole come on well if we're going to throw metaphors, the next problem is that Mr. Dinkic dug a hole, so now we can stand around all day, you understand, we're calling Mr. Dinkic at the hole, he says who does this to you. That's what I'm trying to explain. Otherwise, just one little observation, I was really in that group that called it, that was the age of Slobodan Milosevic. At a time when you wrote the destruction of the economy, I'm not sure if I'm wrong, it's not intentional, but we did things in our lives in some difficult times that were drastically different from this, at least in terms of freedom. What is the constant of this time is you, Mr. Dinkic, you are definitely a constant, financial, economic, economic economy of this country in every sense. We're not sorry about that, because of the DS, we're really sorry about the citizens. Because when we point to what's wrong and we tell you here these are things that we don't think are good, it's very argumentary, you don't answer that, you do some other things entirely. I know Mr. Ilic gets a text message that he has to say this, but let's all text. We don't have to go out here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1775	Thank you, Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1776	I'm going to be really, really short. The last six years for complete financial flows are clear, the responsibility you have had is a fact. I was responsible for monetary policy as governor from 2000 to 2003, and as finance minister from 2004 to 2006. Then my responsibility for Serbia's financial system ends. It starts again from the end of July this year. We'll meet, as they say, at the end of the government's term, we'll draw the line. The citizens will say theirs, and we'll see who did what during his term. I'd just like to point out one thing about these laws. I expected you to notice that we have introduced one measure that will help our truckers, and there are plenty of them. There are 1,100 private transport companies that have 7,800 trucks, which will have to buy fuel in the country in order to achieve that right due to the relief of diesel excise duties. On the other hand, they won't get fuel. So despite the necessity that we must save and increase the revenue side of the budget, we will not increase the cost of transport, neither for urban traffic, nor for trucks, nor for taxi drivers. It's the same for TNG refactions of all kinds for taxi drivers. As far as the city's traffic fuel price for urban traffic is concerned, there will be as much as 2.5 dinars lower than today, given that diesel is not going to collect fuel to the extent that the refaction is done. So the effective fuel price for GSP throughout Serbia will decrease by some 2.5 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1777	Thank you. Mr. Andric, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1778	Thank you. Articles 27 and 107. - I must say, I notice the pleasure that exists between former coalition partners in the charge and the removal from their own history until just a few weeks ago. I ask you, as chairman, to influence your understanding that this is what the citizens are looking at, watching, participating, and the other MPs. Today we attend five hours of shooting off former coalition partners about who did what, who didn't. As far as we're concerned, you're both right, and Mr Dinkic and DS, everything you say. But don't do it here. I have long hesitated to report since you are part of one of that political group, but believe me, this is really a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It's half past six. This session lasts since 3:00 yesterday. Your intention is likely to start now at 1800 hours to discuss the most important law a congregation has passed, which is the budget. Please, if your intention is to adopt this budget as soon as possible, with what you have come to the Assembly, you as the people who are holding the meeting, do not allow such debates. Have them set up a television show, and let them fight. Neither we nor the citizens of this country are obliged to hear it. Once again, I'm telling you, you're right, and you're right, it's true, the DS did everything. He's right DS, you're an accomplice to that, and you went out with them in the election list, in the last election. We don't care about that. This is a new time. The election's over four months ago. Now I'm telling you, that I wouldn't answer again, please don't extend the work after 18.00 hours, because that measure, which is planned, implies that if it's near the end of a debate, the time continues to arrive to discuss it. If we all agree, at least in principle, that the budget rebalancing is the most important law a congregation has passed, then please interrupt this debate now and schedule a session for the next item of the agenda tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Otherwise, both the quality of the debate and the quality of the decision this assembly will make will be colored by this atmosphere, which is from my own perspective, and I am certain from most MPs here, absolutely unnecessary and we are in no way interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1779	Mr. Andric, let me inform you, the work has already been extended since 1600 hours a day, so we'll continue to work. - By the book? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1780	We've got a problem, let's take it on my own that we didn't get along so well. So I answered specifically because of the point of misreading. Knowing that the work has been extended, I suggest something on behalf of an MP group, believe that we have previously spoken to various parliamentary groups. Yes, the work has been extended, but the work is being extended to the agenda item whose debate is taking a long time and so that it will not be interrupted before the end, there is a regulation by the Rules of Procedure to end at that point. I'm telling you politically, not personally, I'm warning you, thinking it's a wrong step, to open a debate in 10 minutes to six hours just because you have the right to push through the Rules of Procedure tonight. We've all been here since nine this morning, someone before. The session started at 10.00 hours. I'm sorry, that's how this assembly works. And if you're pushing us, first you're exhausting these pointless debates, not you, but you're allowing, one of the chairing, pointless debates, you expect us to be in a state of weak concentration, that, without any culture of dialogue, we're discussing something that's the most important legal act for a single assembly. It's your right, I don't argue. Of course you have a business opportunity. I am telling you that you will bear political responsibility for what will happen tonight and the consequences of those decisions that this country will suffer until the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1781	Thank you. Since I primarily take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, and the budget rebalance is very much of the interest of Serbian citizens, we will continue to work. Mr. Đuric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1782	You've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure which authorises you, or imposes on you the obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure in several ways, at least in the last 15 minutes, if not in these 40 hours, how long this debate takes. I'm going to go over this cynicism of yours to take care of citizens' interests first. You had one proposal that I think is rational. If you don't want to accept it, let's go the other way. You are biased in this ongoing debate, and you will obviously be biased when we move on to the rebalancing debate. You have been serving more than one day as some sort of conference for these several-hour performances by Mr Dinkic. It's just not polite. Let's exempt you from this session and have this session run or the president of parliament, and there is a great responsibility of the SNS, which is the largest party in this assembly and in the ruling coalition or if Mr Stefanovic still receives ambassadors or I don't know what he is doing at the moment, that one of the remaining vice presidents is leading this session, Mr Arsenovic or Mr Korac, because it would not be possible for Mrs Komic to do so, because she would be somewhat biased, regardless of the history that completely disproves me in this belief. I made a concrete proposal to really break up this circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1783	I don't think the assembly session is a circus. Like I said, we'll keep working. Ivan Andric, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1784	Article 101(4) – President of the National Assembly of Serbia interrupts work in other cases if the National Assembly concludes. I ask the Parliament to make a statement about my proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1785	Mr. Andric, you can't propose a vote on this right now. The assembly keeps working. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1786	Article 27. You have no right to take away my right...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1787	You've mentioned 27 a few times already.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1788	After you mentioned him, you broke him again. Now you've violated it because you denied me my right as an MP. Article 101 of Article 4 writes -- the president of the National Assembly of Serbia interrupts work in other cases if the National Assembly concludes it. I ask the Assembly to conclude it or not to conclude it. What's the problem with you taking away my right now? Because there are no messengers of yours, so do you fear that you have a majority? Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1789	Mr. Andric, this member of the Rules of Procedure, I understand that on my proposal, the Assembly can conclude, and it doesn't say anywhere on a proposal from the People's Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1790	If you could use the technology a little bit more precisely, it wouldn't be necessary for every other MP to appear to you five times for a word. But let's skip that technical part. You'll learn in time. First you hurt one more member of the 27th by accusing me of calling the entire National Assembly a circus. I was very precise. The circus in this congregation is what you're doing with your behavior, and that's why I suggested that you make up for it. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure was produced by this arbitrary interpretation where you said you were interpreting something. So you can't interpret it. If there is a dispute, then let's let the Administrative Board interpret the rules of the Rules of Procedure. This member of the Rules of Procedure does not say who is the authorising officer, only it is said that the Assembly can decide that. Under general rules, any MP may propose to make such a decision. I'm not getting into what your education is. You don't have to be a lawyer to run this session, but please respect the Rules of Procedure and some elemental order.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1791	Mr. Đurić, you can certainly ask the Administrative Board to interpret the Rules of Procedure in writing. Please, the Management Board will certainly decide on this. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1792	Madam Chairman, thank you. I'm reporting under Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I agree that the responsibility of the SNS as the largest coalition partner in this assembly is the largest. However, on the other hand, the democracy of the SNS, primarily the speaker of parliament, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, is shown by this, Mr Đuric, because for the first time in the last 22 years of modern history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, he was given the chance to chair one of the opposition MPs, i.e. from the opposition vice-presidents of the Assembly. Whether Mr Stefanovic will have international contacts or not, of course he will have them and it is in the interests of both parliament and the Republic of Serbia. As far as this Rules of Procedure is concerned, I would be much happier if this Parliament worked much faster, more economically, more expressively. We're in a hurry, and that's true. However, this Rules of Procedure did not write SNS. There are no restrictions in this Rules of Procedure under which the minister responsible, i.e. the resolute minister, can speak for one minute, two, three or five. You made this Rules of Procedure because you thought you'd be in charge your whole life. For that, let's change Rules of Procedure. This part doesn't apply to Mr. Djuric, mostly to the DS. That's why no Rules of Procedure has been broken, at least in this part, but I appeal to both the Minister and all of us, let us continue to work on it, because Serbia is in a hurry and don't stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1793	Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1794	Replica, I was mentioned by name, and Mr Babic mentioned one of the LDP slogans at one point – Serbia is in a hurry, even on that basis. I remember at least one more situation when Mr. Marojevic, it seems to me, from the SPS, was in a situation in 2003 to preside, but it didn't come to a glorious conclusion and not to mention that example. I do not dispute that Mr Stefanovic has diplomatic obligations and therefore I have proposed an alternative solution, that one of the opposition MPs, or vice-president of parliament, continue to lead this session. I understand you agree with that. For this second part you have corrected, since it is clear that the LDP has also not participated in writing and adopting this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1795	Mr. Micunović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1796	Now we hear there's someone here here who's deliberately trying to extend the session. When you first called, I said that for the extension of this session was the sole culprit Mr Dinkic, who spoke twice as much as all MPs combined. Therefore, let us not now accuse the MPs that they are to blame as long as they speak. Mr. Dinkic has the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure, but then say that Mr. Dinkic abuses that right. It's okay, it's legitimate, and it can be misused, but let's add up the minutes he spent in these discussions, and you claim we're in a terrible hurry, so compare it to the other ones. I spent three minutes. Make it five. Mr. Dinkic spent 550 minutes. So, let's see now who's just trying to get us into midnight, so we don't debate in front of citizens what's called rebalancing, which is probably the only or perhaps most interesting thing that citizens are interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1797	I'm setting a break of 15 minutes, after which we'll continue to work. In the meantime, I'd like to invite all the heads of Parliament to meet me in the president's office. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Mr. Mikovic, have you heard from him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1799	Madam Chairman, I believe the injured member is 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman of the National Assembly, is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. We have been instructed when certain infringements of the Rules of Procedure have been indicated that we can ask the Administrative Board for an opinion on the application of the Rules of Procedure, and that committee is now called the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. When we read Article 48. Rules of Procedure, which is why I invite you all to read Article 48. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 7, we will see that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is monitoring the application of this Rules of Procedure, considering and making proposals for its amendments and additions and giving an opinion to the National Assembly on its request to apply certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So you gave us the wrong direction, which is the committee responsible for the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall be responsible in this part. I'm the vice president of that committee and, believe me, when you gave me that instruction, I wondered if I knew it or didn't know it, and then I read one more Rules of Procedure and found that's what it says in Rule 48. In that sense, I think it's correct that when you give us the instruction to give the instruction that it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1800	I'm sorry. Until this call, he was the Administrative Board. I'm really sorry. I'll take care of what I'm talking about in the future. Just to let you know, the agreement of the parliamentary groups is that today we finish discussing the 1st item of the agenda and tomorrow at 11 a.m. to continue the session with the next item of the agenda. The word has Siniša Lazic. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1801	Thank you. I know I only have one minute, I'll be very brief. I just want to refer to the Law on the financing of local self-government. I think it would be reasonable for that bill to be withdrawn for a number of reasons. One reason is that on October 1st, it is practically impossible to apply it for technical reasons. Second thing, three months from now, we have a new budget decision. Fourthly, I think it would be very reasonable to do an expert analysis of the financing of local self-government, that the universal model of funding for local self-government does not exist. Each local self-government has its specificities and simply this universal model, where it tries to cut the diversity of all local self-governments in Serbia, we make one counter foul. During the previous period, local self-government had been falsified three times. The first time was when the transfer was reduced by 30%. The second time last year was in half a year fiscal decentralisation where the budget of local self-government was also reduced. This is the third time. I think local self-government is the healthiest part of Serbia's management system and I think it should be done with much more attention, much more expertise, and that three months before the budget is passed, it's pointless to do this. That's what we're going to falsify some of the businessmen who contracted jobs, who did public procurement, who work for local self-government, and that's counterproductive. So I really think, Mr. Dinkic, that you should evaluate this, that one professional service should run an analysis. Finally, let me ask you -- is Vojvodina still part of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, or are we going to lift barbed wire around Vojvodina because it is not a recognised government with the central level of some other local self-government? This looks like it to me. You, if you compare the diversity in the travel economy, you have 70% of the roads in Serbia that are financed by the Republic Road Directorate, in Vojvodina 30%, 70% of the jurisdiction of local self-government. Local self-government will not be able to clear the roads from snow, and that someone writes letters to you and that you transfer funds is a complete absurdity. It is a complete absurd for these MPs sitting in this room, who come as representatives of local self-government to vote for something that is completely the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1802	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1803	We had an analysis that we conducted with representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and concluded that this law can be applied from October 1st, as well as all the other laws we have passed. For all entrepreneurs, for all small and medium-sized enterprises, only large businesses would remain valid until the end of the year, and for them the company's amounts would be reduced from January 1st. So there's no reason not to cancel the company's 300,000 entrepreneurs and small businesses from October 1st. I think it's time for the state to once notify some taxpayers that they don't have to pay anything. So far, there's always been something they have to pay extra. This will be the first time they won't have to pay for something extra, but local tax administrations should inform them that they are not obliged to pay for something that has existed so far after the abolition of these laws. That's the goal. The goal is to relieve the entrepreneurs. As for the situation where the company was cut up for a whole year and paid up front, they don't have to do local self-government, that's what we gave the law to pay back, that they can already re-write into these more paid commitments on behalf of paying commitments in the following year. If a craftsman paid for a company that is now being abolished for a whole year, this one-quarter obligation can be rewritten in the name of the flat-rate tax for 2013. In other words, it is not mandatory for the last quarter and in that way that he has already paid in advance will be counted as a advance tax or other local income in the following year. Otherwise, local self-government, as you know, received 45 billion dinars more this year than they had before thanks to this Law on the financing of local self-government when it was changed last year and when a congregation decision was made that 80% of the income tax remained in local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1804	Mr. Lazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1805	I have a material from a permanent conference of cities and municipalities in front of me, and that's why I've been discussing it. They don't agree with what you said. It is simply their recommendation not to apply from 1 October but to apply from 1 January of the following year. So that's what came from them. As far as these other things you've talked about, I agree that someone needs to be tax-free, and that's perfectly reasonable, but you need to know, and you know better than I do, that today there are companies whose economic power exceeds the possibilities of local self-government, that their contributions to the budgets of these local self-governments are also 15% of these budgets and that it's simply something that is completely reckless. Coca-Cola, Knauf and some other companies that fill the budgets of some small local self-government there practically don't have many employees to replace that money from. The second thing is, if the intensity of the income tax is going to be reduced, we're going to be in a situation where local self-government is going to run out of funds. That's why I'm saying it would be reasonable to have one serious analysis, one serious debate, to look at the specificities of each local self-government, and therefore to pass one law that will be comprehensive, not universal, which will only make cosmetics, not the real essence. Local self-government is the healthiest part of this society, and they have responded very rationally to all these challenges that have been met several times. The fact that local self-governments are not qualified and have not spent their money professionally, there are institutions that control it, there is a DRI and someone who violates the law of that decision can check. The second thing is that local self-government budgets are passed only after the Serbian government's memorandum and only 10% of local self-government budgets create them themselves. So it's not true that local self-governments can make their own budgets and make a completely autonomous decision on them. This is, above all, based on a memo by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly defines how the funds in the bar will be spent and therefore must have audits and deliver reports, it is simply impossible. So I'm really asking you and I'm proposing, either you cancel this, or you put it off, or you just rule the regulations, you make regulations. Don't make cosmetics here like the law of some. Bring in the regulation, you can put an end to the story by regulation. That's the simplest thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1806	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1807	The President of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, Mr Paunovic, attended the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Finance and of six proposals for the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, five were accepted, first installed in the amendment of the Government, which was adopted last Friday, and one will be adopted tomorrow on the Finance Committee. The sixth, the only one who hasn't been accepted, is to drop the tax on the use of the coast for business purposes. We didn't accept that. By the way, what you were saying about Coca-Cola, Knauf and similar companies, that observation of the Permanent Conference was respected and included in an amendment adopted by the government on Friday last week. He will become an integral part of the text. As for these 4.5 thousand kilometers of roads, you weren't present, I said several times, but, of course, I will repeat that in the budget for next year, we will allocate additional funds to local self-government, which will allow them to maintain these roads on their own, because I also believe that local self-governments are bases and societies and are very important for the performance of social functions, so we will distribute it by a kilometre of square, i.e. on the surface of the roads on that territory. This will be the funds that will be added to the otherwise envisaged amount of the transfer. It will not be taken into account whether someone in Šumadia, Vojvodina, in southern Serbia, is going to be distributed by miles of roads where they are, as they are. So, what does that mean? If the transfers for local self-government this year are 33 billion dinars, next year, according to the current bill, they will be increased to 35.5 billion dinars. Through this, the Budget Law will provide a special member for the dedicated transfer of all local self-governments to the surface of roads that are on their territory, so that they can be maintained, as we have also seen, given that "Serb Roads" transferred that competence to local self-governments in February of this year, that the existing funds would not be sufficient for this function to be successfully maintained for the next year. On the other hand, I have to say, no matter what "Serbian Roads" were competent to maintain these roads as regional once, until they were overtegrated on local roads, that many of these roads were not maintained or poorly maintained, so now local self-government, with the additional resources it will receive, will be able to do so in a better way. That's actually the goal, for local self-government to do as much as they can, with the resources that belong to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-19-0.u1808	Thank you. I'm concluding a circle of replicas. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on drafts of the law from point 1 to point 24 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Sasa Dujovic has a word. Here you go.
