ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u871	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in general we in the DS feel that this law on amendments to the NBS Act is unconstitutional, in that sense and all amendments that are given have more weight to indicate the unconstitutional nature of this law than to fix it, because what is unconstitutional is difficult to fix with amendments. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a member of the first law that we've proposed to delete. We have proposed this because we believe that the existing NBS Act is adequate, in accordance with European standards, the jurisdiction of the NBS and that these amendments and additions of the NBS Act do not make sense because they only introduce confusion and create responsibilities that are not necessary for the work of the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u872	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Veseinović together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. () Was this the word for the previous amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u873	When it comes to Amendment 2, the proposal is to delete Article 2. This is one of the provisions of the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act, which shows on the most recent example that the NBS is taking away its independence because these amendments impose an obligation on the Statute of the NBS which is independent under the Constitution, so the Statute as an internal act of the NBS is given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For this, it is not necessary to be a top lawyer and to assess that this is how the independence of the NBS is threatened, because the National Assembly, even in the powers given to it in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, does not have such a provision to give consent to the Statute of the NBS. So this way, even the Constitution is changing, and the introduction is, I say, subtracting the independence of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u874	Thank you. Representative for the Proposer Mr Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully understand the MPs of the former regime, but there are some things we need to clear up. When it comes to amendment to Article 1 of the bill, we already have experience that there have been abuses by various financial organisations, that money laundering has occurred, that these amendments and additions to the laws are intended for payments in the country and abroad to be controlled by the National Bank. As for Article 2, this Assembly is acting under the Constitution and it is beginning to supervise the National Bank, which adopts a sublegal act such as the Statute, and therefore it makes a proposal, and we are verifying its compliance with the law and the Constitution. It's our constitutional right and obligation. I don't understand members of the former regime why they object to these changes and supplement, at least in Articles 1 and 2. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank Act. We are, in fact, returning to force the National Bank Act proposed by the Democratic Party in 2003 and adopted. Then how is it possible that it was in accordance with the law and the Constitution, and today it's not possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u876	The word is made by the People's MP Veselinović. You have one more minute on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u877	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen of the now ruling regime, by calling us the former regime, you will not justify the provisions that are unconstitutional. By the way, as far as we know, this Law on Amendments and Law Supplements was written by a man who sits in both the current regime and the former regime, Mr Mladjan Dinkic. As far as I can tell, he intervenes on suggestions from the West to change this already, according to you, a law that should have been passed. So, don't always remind you that in your government there are more than half the ministers who have sat in the previous government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u878	National MP Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u879	Thank you. It seems to me that this is a good reason to remind ourselves of the main destinations of the debate in principle over this legal proposal which, I think, Mr. Veroljub Arsic has repeated so many times, that she should not remain undetected and forgotten. The difference between independence and independence that we should make has focused on several times, just like some MPs from opposition political parties. It is undeniable that the independence of the National Bank must not be harmed in any way, as it is protected and guaranteed by the Constitution. But independence is not a value, and that's why I'm reporting, which at all belongs to one such institution, and especially cannot be disputed, and it seems politically brutal to me, when it comes to any socio-relevant, nationalally significant work with the position of the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not a party arena, it is not a daily political body, but the highest representative body of Serbian citizens. In no way can anyone be damaged, injured, politically depriving, if the attitude of the National Assembly should stand in any way in relation to his action. It is, I'm sorry, a form of respect for the importance of an organ, body or institution, when it belongs to the right... (President: Thank you. Just follow your time, Mr. Milenich. The time for the amendment is two minutes. ) It is only a form of attaching importance to an authority or institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u880	Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vesenović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The representatives of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Petrovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u881	Mr. Chairman, I want to start by saying or repeating that it's a great shame that we didn't have a chance to discuss essential matters when these issues are on the agenda. It is essential that monetary policy is, in fact, led by a policy of defence, how the entire process of control and supervision of banks is conducted. These are all issues that are important and that need to be discussed. The National Bank Act, I will refer to what is said here, guarantees not only the independence guaranteed by the Constitution, but also the independence of the National Bank. It's a legal category and we talked about it the other day. Proposers did not question this attribute of the National Bank. This bill does not propose amendments that would deprive the People's Bank of its independence, as stated in the first article. The National Bank is independent. I think that this assembly also had enough power and enough institutional mechanism in its hands to initiate a very serious debate, primarily in the National Bank Council, because the National Assembly itself, or the Finance Committee itself, is not in charge of this law, and neither of the amendments nor of the additions, that it deals with the governor himself, but it is competent to determine the responsibility of the members of the National Bank Council. I think in these five or ten days, we could have had a very serious, clear debate, an expert, that would eventually come before the MPs and in this high house she could get her grade. The day before yesterday, we talked about whether the National Bank Council is some exclusive body with more knowledge than there are 250 MPs of the National Assembly. The answer is, because when it is necessary for one of our family members to operate on the heart or brain, it does not come to the National Assembly, but is looking for a consulate, as one of the honourable MPs of doctors who knows how to treat certain parts of the body and certain pathology. Thus, the National Bank Council is a gathering of people for whom the Assembly has found competent, to deal with monetary policy. What the National Bank Council is doing is subject to the political assessment of the National Assembly, and I think that was the right way, to get answers – did it have to slip this much exchange rate and whether politics was well-led or not? Unfortunately, we won't get an answer in this debate about that question. Is bank control and supervision done well or not done well? We can give a flat rate here by reading the newspaper or if MPs, as the modern says here -- the new regime, have some more data than we do, then give some estimates. As much as you have information, it's not enough that you can competently conclude, until it passes through the National Bank Council or some other institution. Unfortunately, we haven't even had a chance to come forward here. What is the subject of this amendment is one fact that a whole new body is being introduced within the National Bank, the supervisory board of financial institutions. Once again, the National Bank is independent, not just independent, because the independence of the National Bank guarantees the National Bank Act and that provision will not change here. I think the resignation of the governor of the National Bank has changed for something, ideas which, if I may conclude, motivated the promoter. If the governor had resigned before this law entered the procedure, I'm not sure the oversight board would have been put in place. It's a simple question that the proposings will give an answer to. What is now a very serious problem here, in my court, the Constitutional Court is likely to give its own assessment by some initiative, whether this is constitutional or not, but what is indisputable is that under the Constitution the governor manages the work of the National Bank. The establishment of a supervisory board introduces a powerful new point, which is provided with great powers, which has been the job of the National Bank of Serbia so far, so it will be in the future, with the vice governor who deals with this job not being elected by the Board of Governors, but rather by the National Assembly. On the one hand, the governor will continue to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic, on the other hand, the Director of the Supervisory Board will also be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee. If you want, this is how the President of the Republic's jurisdiction is defined. It is not disputed that it is possible in some cases that functions are not performed well, so that some consequences are harmful, but then it is a matter of personal responsibility for those who have run the business rather than a systemic issue. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. We believe that there is sufficient capacity and sufficient competence in such a system of the National Bank, when it does not already change, as it is, that supervision of financial institutions is done well and quality. Everyone should be responsible for their work. Whoever didn't do his job well should thank him for his cooperation, according to the procedure that was established. I think we're gonna make a mess. Life will show. We will see very soon when a new governor is elected, when the Director of the Supervisory Board is elected, when all the National Bank officials are elected, whether such a system can function effectively, or whether it will be a set of individuals supplied with very large powers with very great legitimacy because they will all be elected by the National Assembly and whether such a structure can function as a team. So we express a deep reserve that's possible. We believe that the existing system, not entering some comparative analysis, there are various legal solutions and that is what has been said here, that it is possible that the existing system produces good results and that by introducing such an institution we will face the possibility of a very serious conflict of competence and interference in the functioning of the Central Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u882	Thank you. You are the applicant of the amendment, you are entitled to two minutes per amendment, and the rest of my time I am counting on you from a parliamentary group, like everyone else, of course. The word is Mr. Gjorge Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u883	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also proposed that Article 3 be deleted, which provides for the establishment of a supervisory board for financial institutions, for the reason that the National Bank is already overseeing financial institutions. We don't see why this should be moved to a special organisational unit, especially in a situation like today, where in the financial sector you have an extremely large crisis with 30% of bad placements in bank activity and when foreign banks flee from Serbia. I don't think it's time to experiment with supervision of financial institutions. Such a solution exists in Montenegro. I don't know why the proposer decided on a solution in neighbouring Montenegro. I don't think that, with all due respect, is a very soft financial institution. There are other solutions. Also, there is no precise detail of the work of this administration, so I don't think the simple suggestion is something that we should support. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u884	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Veseinović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u885	In line with what has already been said, I would like to point out that DS strongly opposes the introduction of a supervisory board, for the simple reason that we consider it to be a 95. The constitution very clearly laid down that the work of the National Bank of Serbia is being managed by the governor and we believe that the introduction of such a solution seriously endangers this constitutional provision. Of course, I also think it will be subject to review and the Constitutional Court. We believe that the introduction of a supervisory board would introduce a type of two-authority in the work of the National Bank and that this is not a model that exists in developed, modern European countries, where monetary policy stability exists. So, we advocate that the National Bank of Serbia be independent and independent and, of course, we advocate that the National Assembly, within its jurisdiction, carry out very responsible supervision of the work of the National Bank. We are very sorry that before this debate on the proposal of this law we did not really discuss the work of the National Bank and the effects of its policy and work. We feel that this would be responsible, as one method in the work of the National Assembly. So, the DS advocates that the National Assembly is seriously overseeing the work of the National Bank, but we are also against the introduction of a supervisory board, which would create a two-way system and introduce an incompetent management within the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u886	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u887	My colleagues have already spoken about why we have offered such an amendment. So, not only is the solution unconstitutional, not only does the proposed solution not know the practice of developed European societies, I just want to add that this solution proposed in the bill in perhaps the most obvious way confirms how politicised the institutions of the National Bank of Serbia are. So, we've allowed this bill of law to make a party man governor, and apparently it's going to be the director of the supervisory board. In fact, the media has already announced that the authors of this text are Mrs Tabakovic and Mr Dinkic. Apparently, working on this innovative proposal to amend the National Bank Act, they agreed on who would be governor, who would be director of the administration. I suspect there'll be someone from Dinkic's party. So in the most vulgar way, politics and party influence are introduced into a financial institution, which is independent and independent under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u888	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u889	It is also the subject of the previous amendment, which provokes the dignity of the congregation and the need to respond. A certain level of expertise in social sciences, knowledge specifically related to the age of opportunity, implies building a political attitude of an individual to be engaged professionally. What quality is it to be a nonpartisan man? What's embarrassing about being a party man? Political parties are just NGOs, civil society organisations, aimed at articulating the interests of whole layers and the structure of society. The whole story of politicisation, through association with the Assembly and the inferiority of candidates based on political definition and party membership is an anti-democracy concept. You know, some people at the moment as we speak are lying in prisons because they were tried by judges chosen by party people, based on the will of the party, the political will of the citizens, and by the laws that have passed party structures with party views. The party-political opinion is part of the democratic ambience and cannot be disqualification for anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u890	The word has Mr. Arsic as a proposing representative, because he has an advantage, so you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u891	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 95. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, repeatedly cited, attitude one, I will not comment much, giving independence to the National Bank. The National Assembly, by adopting the Law on the National Bank, which was regulated by the position of Article 3 of the same Article 95, substituted the right of independence. Independence is not seen, or an obstacle to independence is not seen in the fact that the National Assembly controls the National Bank, the independence and independence of the National Bank, as one government body, is seen in decision making. When it comes to this famous supervisory board, if you look further, it submits reports and is obliged to give certain information to the council, if he asks for them, and at least once every three months. Even management has no absolute independence and independence, but corresponds to the highest authority of the National Bank. The National Bank is not a branch of government. There are three branches of government in Serbia under the Constitution, which is legislative, executive and judicial. Believe me, by passing this law, or by amending the law, we won't have any problems like the previous regime had problems when it got directly involved in a branch of government and a court, so now we have problems in all courts, basic, higher, appeals and cassation, what will be done with judges who, based on the Constitutional Court's decision, are back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u892	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dragoljub Micunovic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u893	I intervene because there are words here that directly attack, not only constitutional order but also the concepts of democracy. If we accept that political parties are NGOs, then we are in great danger of understanding political life. The meaning of democracy is precisely in the division of power and in creating various independent bodies, regulatory, whatever you want, first of all, the functions of Parliament, government, judiciary, etc. The fact that he's a senior party official, he's not well and he's not in line with the normal traditions of democracy and the practice that we have today everywhere in the world. An attempt to do so now would lead political parties down to NGOs leading to a total mix of state and society, and it would be extremely dangerous if they were to go that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u894	Thank you. Replica Mr. Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u895	That's all I can do, after Professor Micunovic's remarks, to correct myself, because it's a sentence I've formulated. It would be fairer to say, political parties are civil society organisations, not NGOs, but, yes, civil society organisations certainly. They fully legitimately participate in the articulation of attitudes and interests of society with all other civil society organisations, by formulating politically relevant positions based on participation in the fight for power, however, is their priority, priority. But if they were civil society organisations, that can't be slow.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u896	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment complies with the constitutional legal system. The word is wanted by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u897	Thank you. This member is the best example for the politicisation of the National Bank of Serbia. The executive board of the National Bank of Serbia, according to this member, is becoming practically a politburo, which has its chairman, the secretary of politburo, in the form of the director of the newly formed commission. According to the president, he will probably be a member of one party, possibly a SNS or an SPS, that the vice-governments will be representatives of other political parties and that the political party image in the People's Bank of Serbia will be painted in the worst possible way. Now you heard, a few minutes ago, something you probably didn't expect in the first term of this government. You've heard from the representatives of the region that they're in favour of the People's Bank being run by party people. The main idea of the region was departementisation, therefore, that professional people run the National Bank of Serbia and other institutions that are independent, which are independent. Maybe I'll use some time from the MPs' group. Now, from the representatives of this political group, we hear that the governor should be a political man, these are not his words, these are mine, to be the high-ranking official of the largest political party in Parliament. In parallel, it is now in Cuba, North Korea, I don't know about another country, with I have nothing against the political arrangement that exists in these countries, but I say, in parallel, it is now such a situation that the members of the politburo are at the head of the nation's banks of these countries. As of Monday, it will also be in the Republic of Serbia, a country that is due to become an EU member, a country that is scheduled to co-operate with the IMF, a country where representatives of political parties have advocated the department. From Monday you will see the part of the partition in the worst possible way, i.e., we could see it already yesterday through the appointment of Mr. Vukic in place, I don't know, since these services are very abstract to me, all possible services that exist in this country, the secretary of all secret and non-secret services, so now we will have the governor of the National Bank from that mile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u898	Veroljub Arsic's representative has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u899	I'd like to ask members of the former regime that, when they get their grades up front, they don't do it casually. We plan to be better than you and we want to be better than you. The governors' council is made up of governors and vice governors, and when they make decisions, they have the exact same rights. The governor's voice isn't worth two votes, but one, as well as any of the governor's jokes. One of the vice governors is Tijana Dragutinovic, a former finance minister. I didn't notice at Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé that she's an independent and impartial figure, so now she's on the board of the governor's vice governor. Don't shower on the ashes, we plan to be better than you and place the best people in the profession on proper functions in the state organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u900	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u901	When it comes to departmentalisation, of course the URS spoke about the departmental work during the campaign, and we will behave accordingly. Here they speculate on the names of governors, vice governors and directors of the supervisory board, and that no name has yet been mentioned or officially proposed. These are mere speculations and speculations, as an example that we will stick to what we have talked about and in the campaign, is the constitution, let me say, the ministries and the selection of people who will manage administrations within the ministries, I speak on behalf of the URS, which we will form and you will all be able to see that no party figure, or high-ranking official, at least my party, will be at the head of any institution within, for example, the finance and business ministries. Here, on my personal case, I am the director of the Serbian Tax Administration in my time no one has disputed. They say I was good at that place. I'm not gonna be director of the IRS just for a reason because we made that deal and we talked about it in the campaign. Here I am as a politician in Parliament. You'll also see about the election of other management directors, that we'll stick to the principle that the best people are in the best places. Of course, there will also be a competition that all those who believe can successfully lead those institutions will be able to apply. Let's all wait together, and let's comment when some things happen, not to speculate in advance and that someone's accusing himself of something he didn't even try to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u902	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Milenić, replica, then Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u903	I pray that certain political attitudes are not vulgarised in the simplification process, because this really puts us in danger of fully deformed interpretation of reality. The fact that the U.S.S., including my party, Together for the Forest under this coalition, has always explicitly advocated the departmentation principle, precisely means that, as no political party can be an argument and an advantage in any public competition, for example, in employment, neither should any lack be allowed. The idea that people who perform the most complicated social affairs and public functions could be without political attitudes and party definitions is something to which it discredits. You know, in Greek culture, in antiquity, that's exactly what it was called -- idiotism, being unable to take a political stance and social commitment, while pretending to do some public work. So let's not implimate ourselves, not a single party, not a party that talks about departisation, not to fight for power to only non-partisan people, but not to a party, give the position to stand out, but only to limit itself through the process of competition and public competition in its political ambitions. This means the idea of departisation - the removal of the privilege of the membership card, not the screening of people with membership cards, as it is quite often simplified and understood in the previous assembly of democracy and political procedures when various regulatory bodies were advocated both outside the control and control of the Assembly. You know, one government with absolute ambitions is most suited to disenfranchise Parliament and that independent regulatory bodies carry out as broad as possible competences and broad competences as possible. (President: Time. ) We are just talking about party pluralism being the highest concentration of power and control over public life, precisely in the highest representative body of citizens, in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u904	National MP Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u905	First, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, professor of the University, was not a member of any political party or DS. So much for that. On the other hand, I was really pleased to listen to my colleague Milenic, but in one way he could say poetically, explained that his political group, the regions, evolved from thinking that they were against political representatives being at the top of independent bodies, or independent bodies, precisely because they are officials. So they'll just be because they're functionaries. Don't tell me these people got those seats because they're the best experts in the area. Mr. Milenic, I don't know how you would explain to your voters at pre-election meetings across Serbia that you are for the department and that after these sentences you would say that you would propose to Governor Jorganka Tabakovic, whose expertise I do not want to enter. So, what do you think your voters would understand? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u906	Replica, MP Sasa Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u907	Just to answer my colleague Janko Veselinovic's question. Together for Shumadi, as a political party, she left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the government's political party of the majority in a previous meeting with a message that she did not want to participate in the compromise of public representation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is being disproved and left without any authority, while the entirely unauthorized state bodies appear as bearers of exclusive political decision-making. In the media, it was written that she left the National Assembly together for the Forest because of the duality of functions, which was completely false, which you could read from your arguments. We said, "We'll come back." We came back more numerous than we came out of the National Assembly just to explain these things. Don't, by simplifying otherwise complex concepts of political speech, deny the public that he is understandingly following serious social issues and that he is competent to participate in the discussion on too difficult issues. So social topics are very similar, for example, compared to mathematics, with integrals, and as it would be difficult for any teacher of mathematics to make a higher mathematics of stories and explain to the general public, not in a much easier position the MPs. This is exactly the kind of simplification in interpreting the principle of secession, namely the denial of political parties from ambition to put public functions under party control and state authorities, does not mean that the parties are willing to show themselves by being parties for surplus, excess and only self-interested segment of society that, on behalf of all others, struggles to exercise power.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u908	Thank you. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Mirko Cikiriz, joint MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petkovic and Bojana Bozanić, and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u909	On behalf of the DSS Group, I will explain the amendment to Article 5. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act, but since this is my first meeting of the Assembly, I simply cannot take the impression of a way of discussing here on this law in question in this House. Namely, in a small local parliament of the Municipality of Chatin, where I come from, debates on important decisions for the life of the community, the life of our municipality is taken with the participation of a wider public. I don't mean the media, I mean the participation and representation of all the people and activities that have led to the changes in certain decisions or the proposal to put an end to some decisions and others, etc. I just expected this high house to work the same way. We do not understand why it is necessary without debate, no doubt, to discuss the poor work of the governors and the management of the NBS in the previous period, to discuss the choice of new leadership, because it would certainly be much easier for me and all of us here to hear what these problems were in the work of the governors, to bring out objections, suggestions and suggestions from all the MPs. You'll agree, the next leadership would certainly be much easier to hear about how it wasn't supposed to work and how in the future they shouldn't work, so that they're certainly kept here in those seats for the whole term. We propose that Article 6 be deleted in this law, because in the existing Law on NBS Article 14 paragraph 1 point 8, you will allow me to read, it reads: "the Executive Board establishes monetary and foreign policy, as well as activities to preserve and strengthen the stability of the financial system, and in particular sets out in point 8) of the foreign reserve management policy strategy, as well as guidelines for the management of those reserves". Here the word "strategic" means that exclusively the NBS Executive Board, deals with foreign reserves, their placement, security, intervention on the foreign market, how they will move, and how it will all affect the financial balance and the stability of the financial sector. By giving this authority to an external body, the functioning of our country's foreign currency reserve financial management system is at risk. There may be a threat to the country's macroeconomic stability and in this case. the cash mass would not be adequately covered as a copy, potentially leading to an deepening of the current balance of payments deficits. I propose that the ruling majority seriously consider the DSS amendments, because behind us MPs, whose voice through us in this House should be heard and respected, because we, during the previous period, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, have shown how institutions that are now seem to be slowly breaking down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u910	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The representatives of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u911	We have proposed that, as a parliamentary group of DS, Article 7 be deleted for the reason that certain amendments are being made to Article 15 are actually going into continuance of the work of the Supervisory Board, which should be headed by a director who will have parallel powers with the governor. We think that's how it is introduced into the National Bank of Two-Government. We believe that the governor's powers are significantly reduced, that by practically the second signature, i.e. with two signatures for giving and withdrawing the bank's work license, the governor only confirms and does not bear full responsibility for his work. This proposed way can be, or succeed, only in ideal situations. In any other situation where a dispute arises about granting a permit or withdrawing a licence, it may lead to significant developments in the work of the National Bank. That's why it's better when institutions are introduced to work out the procedure. It's just, we can't always expect all people to think the same thing, and it's not natural. There will be such a two-state system that will make it very impossible for such a significant institution to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u912	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 7th amendment. The representatives of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u913	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to me that such a solution can only be the fruit of a political agreement within the ruling coalition and that this distribution of jurisdiction or power is made to satisfy everyone's interests and protect positions. As part of political agreements, I fully understand and we have participated in various political agreements ourselves, and they involve compromises that are being made. Political arrangements that are made to harm institutions are bad. All agreements that are made by assumptions must be in the interest of institutions, not at the expense of institutions. The introduction of the Supervisory Authority, in itself, doesn't have to be bad and not bad. But the introduction with these powers that are completely intertwined, which bring confusion, without clear and precise powers, are solutions that can help paralyze the work of the NBS when making certain decisions. The Board of Supervisors shall propose to the Director of Administration. He, as a member of the Executive Board, decides on his own proposal and, in the end, parallelly, associated with the governor, signs the decisions made by the Executive Board. You will admit that this solution does not exist, as far as I know, in any modern legislation. Such a solution cannot contribute to the improvement of the work of the National Bank, just because this type of dualism of the established signature can paralyze the work of the National Bank. What will happen, who will mediate and how will resolve the situation when the Director of the Supervisory Authority is overvoted by the Executive Board and he, because he is too loud, takes a turn and does not sign a decision that needs to be implemented - how will the situation be resolved? We don't have a decision, the decision isn't signed, and it can't be realized, and there's a question waiting. Let's say the Supervisory Authority takes a look at the issue of Agrobank, which you've all talked about here in the Assembly and the ruling coalition mentioned, and the Supervisory Authority, the Director of the Supervisory Board and the Governor have different opinions on it, a decision is made, and one of them will not sign. Then the citizens suffer, the state suffers, costs and debts grow, and the decision cannot be implemented. It's a solution that, in our opinion, is not the best solution, and that solution can be solved by accepting our amendment. I warn you to consider once again whether you will accept this amendment that can contribute to establishing a single order of decision in the original committee and the National Bank itself, which will allow for the smooth implementation of decisions. I understand the political arrangements and that it is likely that one party will appoint a governor, another party of the director of the Supervisory Authority and that the two parties of the ruling coalition will want to have control. It is not in itself a dispute, that the Director of the Supervisory Authority should be from another party. So be it, it's part of your deal. It is disputed that he has a signature with the governor and that for various reasons that we will come to sooner or later, and we will be in a position not to agree in the views and opinions of the Governor and Director of the Supervisory Authority and that they will not sign those decisions. It has been in the past, it will be in the future and this government in these things will not be different from all previous governments. Sooner or later, we'll get into that situation. Please predict the mechanism of how this situation can be resolved. The draft amending the law does not foresee this, envisioning full paralysis in decision-making. By accepting this amendment, we can avoid it. I also want to say that I expect from the new Supervisory Authority and from the new leadership of the National Bank, that at some point in time and in some due time, this assembly responds to all the topics mentioned in this Assembly and in the public, which are "Agrobank" and other banks, both business and Serbian, which have recently been mentioned and which are controversial and that the final effect of the Supervisory Authority sees citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly through reports and through a little more legality in the work of all banks in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u914	The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic, as a representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u915	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, recommendors appreciate any well-intentioned criticism or warning that something could not work properly and could come to a standstill. Namely, the Assembly Committee on Finance Affairs tabled an amendment yesterday, which I accepted as a proposing representative, so that the solution is only signed by the governor. I can only thank you for having submitted one such amendment because of your concern, but this amendment to the Finance Committee becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal and so I can only thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u916	Thank you. Mrs. Judita Popovic. Replica, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u917	It is good that the Committee has adopted this amendment, or adopted a solution contained in the new amendment, through the new amendment proposed and that this dualism will be abolished, which will, of course, allow decisions to be made, signed and implemented as decided by the National Bank Executive Board. So that's a better solution than proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u918	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u919	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment to the Finance Committee is one of these cosmetic amendments, of the two which the committee has submitted, in order to in some way conform to this bill, which apparently met with strong public resistance, international financial institutions and professional circles in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u920	I apologize, just to tell you this is the amendment submitted by Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u921	Yeah, that's the amendment I'm talking about. An amendment amending this Article has been adopted before, or has been adopted by the Committee on Finance. It's a bill of law. Normally, that member of the law should have changed. Because this two-government, which is provided for by this member of the law, creates confusion to a great extent, would create confusion over the work of the National Bank. Why? What's this about? It has just been said that if you have two signatories of such an important solution, which allows, gives or takes away work from certain financial institutions, you are only prolonging the time of making that decision if there is some disagreement. That disagreement can always exist, and whenever you have an excess of something, it can produce certain problems. These problems, after all, can lead to this situation, which is characteristic of Serbia, that there is a real possibility that someone might see certain financial benefits about how they will approach giving or not giving consent, or their signature on the solution. So it is very important to simplify the procedures for each solution, not to complicate it, because it is always the source of some corruption, which is so expressed in Serbia. Therefore, it is very important that, through these members tried to iron out in some way, the fact that the independence of the National Bank of Serbia, its independence in the work and party involvement in the work of the National Bank, and how transparent, visible and clear. We just heard something about the fact that there are plans for this government to work much more successfully. You know, plans are allowed. We can discuss success, and we can experience the results on our own. I don't know if this is how you try to show this success by giving this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, where you literally delete everything that needs to be done by an institution, such as the National Bank. You simply can't hide the fact that in every way you're destroying even the letter "no" from that independence without talking about introducing exactly that partocrat you've been fighting so much, and you, and the rest of your coalition partners. We've known for days in advance who will be the future governor of the National Bank. What does that say about the party belonging of that future governor? Normally, we all know Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, we have absolutely nothing against her personality, but we have against such a high-ranking party official being governor of the National Bank. It's about us fighting against partocracies. That is not true, and it would be good to finally declare that if the governor has already resigned, whether this debate on the whole of this law is necessary, because the goal was to have the governor resign or be relieved of his duties. So, if he resigned, it is obvious that he put it under pressure, he made his statement, so it is clear that this whole law had one single function and one single goal – to replace the current governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u922	Veroljub Arsic's representative has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not dare to enter the discretionary right of the President of the Republic whom he will propose for governor, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if you claim that the reason for the passage of the governor or his dismissal is to continue this session, all the continuation of the work under this law is to deny you. So, we're not looking to get rid of the governor. We aim to establish control over the financial market by the National Bank and supervision of the National Assembly of the National Bank. I have pointed out several times, when we became MPs in this assembly, we took an oath that our obligation and constitutional right to do our job as a MP is right. So every story about avoiding the oversight of the National Assembly of the National Bank is to avoid the duty of a MP. I can understand members of the former regime wanting to amend and supplement this law to bring down a political field and political debate. However, we give the right to all MPs, including those who did not make a majority in the republican parliament, to control through the supervision of the National Bank one body, which is extremely important for the functioning of the state, not only by the assembly majority, but also by the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u924	The word is Judita Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u925	Thank you, Mr. President. It is this amendment which will follow and which will be spoken of, I suppose, that the one who signed in front of the Committee on Finance that amendment speaks of that you did have as a predominant goal the governor of the National Bank who simply did not correspond to your own party interests. If you accept this proposal that the governor remains the only signator of that solution, you are, in fact, removing that control, which you have provided for by the bill, through the Director of the Supervisory Authority. So, the governor remains the only signer. The governor will be someone from your party's ranks. The governor will be a senior SNS official. So if we don't have an old governor, we'll have a new governor who suits you in a party way. He doesn't need that control from the director of surveillance. That's the point. However you try to avoid that essence that this law had one single goal, which is to remove the governor, now the former governor, from the head of this very important institution in Serbia, to bring a party-like personality. I think that through this kind of congregation discussion, actually working in the Assembly, you're just showing the backdrop of the whole story about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u926	The word is Mr. Arsic, as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u927	To be clear, the financial sector control carried out by the National Bank has been reviewed by reports submitted by the national banks and other financial organisations on the market. The Supervisory Authority aims to continuously and directly exercise financial control of financial participants, means continuously, not to have someone make a report, one or the other, to submit it to the National Bank that is considering it, adopting or not adopting it, whether or not it has passed control. This is about constantly controlling financial organisations, on the one hand. On the other hand, we're trying to explain to you that whoever the governor is has not been released from the legal system and constitutional order of the state. It is not excommunicated from the supervision of the National Assembly and as such is obliged to answer to all MPs here for whatever they do or do, and should be done by the National Bank. That's the purpose of this law. So not only does he reduce his responsibilities, but he is given through the supervisory authority another instrument to achieve his primary goal and task entrusted to him by law and constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u928	Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u929	Thank you, Mr. President. Then why didn't you invite former Governor Shoskovic to come to this parliament, then he was still the current governor, to attend this debate. In the end, it is still such an important law concerning the National Bank of Serbia, which he was then governor. On the other hand, you sent the law to the National Bank of Serbia for an incomplete 24 hours. You sent him one day earlier to this House than was scheduled. This urgency that you have decided on indicates exactly how important it was for you to change some part of the law that allows you to put some pressure on the current governor, to achieve the goal of installing your party man to the head of one, I would especially point out to you, an independent institution that is otherwise foreseen by the Constitution. It is that the National Bank of Serbia is obliged to write reports and deliver those reports to parliament. In fact, it also looks at the role of Parliament's control over an institution that is independent and independent in its work according to the difolt and Constitution. We can no longer discuss the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. The question is also how independent she is in this work when you have already introduced this institute of oversight. You're already getting involved, not to mention the statute that will be decided by parliament as well. It is not the control and supervisory role of Parliament in choosing both the governor and the vice governor, the members of the Council, the President of the Council and the Director of the Supervisory Board. It's not the point, it's that you control the work of that bank that's so important for the monetary system and for the entire economy of this country. The members themselves, the last two members of this law and the whole methodology of handing over this law point to that urgency that you've based on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u930	National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u931	Thank you. As the author has said, we from our MP club will not interfere with the authority of the President of the Republic. We don't know who's gonna be governor. As Mr. Ilic knows, that's another question. I asked my colleagues from New Serbia how Mr. Ilic knows, he said -- he didn't say, he was just quoting Mr. Palm, but, well. Of course this is an important law and we have already pointed out in the principle of a number of objections to this law. We do not think that all these remarks have been removed from the proposed amendments. We commend the promoter for adopting one of our amendments. There will be more, rather important ones, so let's discuss it further. We regret that the governor has resigned and that we will not have the opportunity to implement our proposal to come here together to the members of the Council, to discuss all these important things that are important to discuss over all the problems that exist. The competencies, independence and independence of the National Bank do not increase and are not diminished by the introduction of a financial institution control administration, by the introduction of these administrations itself, but by the way of elections, by the way that the administration will function and by the way in which its functions will be realized. In this way, independence and independence of the National Bank can be compromised. The real deal, the existing National Bank Act, which is still in force, has several provisions regarding financial sector control. None of these provisions are governed by the law which we now, by the amendments to the law we are discussing, does not change. All legal provisions relating to financial sector control are now in force. The big question is, we're sorry we won't be able to determine that in the assembly debate, why the National Bank hasn't used it so far. Article 4 precisely defines provisions from four to seven of the applicable law. It determines the exact responsibilities of the National Bank in the control of the banking sector, so Article 4, Article 4, says: it issues and withdraws the bank's operating licenses, it controls the creditworthiness and legality of the bank's business. Article 5 determines that he issues insurance permits. Article 6 for the lease, Article 7 for voluntary pension funds. It remains an open question why the National Bank has so far failed to control and use the information it has had. I hope the new leadership determines that. The good thing is that the amendment was adopted, the good thing is that there is no two-authority in signing. My colleague said it doesn't exist anywhere. Then I remembered it existed. In our practice, we have two powers, and this was in the transitional government between 5 October 2000 and 27 January 2001, two powers, or three powers, in some ministries and in the government of trupulation. I don't think it's some kind of period and some sort of parallel practice they should be applying in the future, unless we're back to square one. The other thing is, every Parliament's assembly has some of the dominant issues. It is obvious that in this conference we will have a lot to discuss about what independence is, what independent bodies are, that we will have to go back to the concept of independent institutions from the beginning – what is their job, what is the possibility of the Assembly to interfere with their work. Obviously, there is a completely different understanding of the concept of independent bodies compared to what existed until recently. At present, there are no proposings, please pass on to him, are very important amendments concerning the election of the director of the supervisory board, as well as how the concept of the administration depends on how the elections are made. I think there's been a serious confusion behind the way you choose and how you resolve the functionors. The Committee on Finance proposes members of the National Bank Council, the President of the Republic proposes a governor, the governor proposes a vice governor, and the Finance Committee proposes a director of a management to control financial institutions. They are resolved by establishing the responsibility of the Council by the Finance Committee, and the Council determines the responsibility of all these officials. It certainly won't work, someone else who comes to power at some point will have to change that member of the law again, if he wants to change the governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u932	Thank you. National MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u933	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Arsic is not here, but I hope he hears, so he will respond when he returns. I'm quite surprised by his last replica and what he was saying. From that I could conclude that the idea was actually to change the responsibilities of the National Bank itself, so that the supervisory board would get some authority to do some jobs that it had never done before. As Mr. Arsic said, so far the orderly business of banks has been appreciated through the report of audit houses, and now it will be something different, permanent surveillance will take place, if I remember correctly what he said. However, the law does not change in that sense, and that is what Mr. Obradovic said, I will not read, since I had the intention - there is no change in the law and the National Bank will do what it has done so far. If such an idea existed, then at least it was up to the law to put in the law what are the powers that the supervisory board should have, so that we know what it's all about. This is how the Law delegates it to the Statute of the National Bank and we are completely entering into a confusion, because Mr Arsic here represents a promoter, trying to make the intensities, the intention that the promoter himself had, not only what it says in the text itself, and I think we really have one serious and big problem about what the legislator really had to do. Of course, we can debate what he wrote as a bill. For this reason, I will once again return to what I have said and agree with several MPs who have spoken here, there is a danger of creating very serious and great confusion in the functioning of the central bank, which is authorized to take care of monetary policy, supervision of banks and everything that is laid down by law in competence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u934	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, submitted an amendment to Article 7. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Mičić, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 8th amendment together. The representatives of the proposings and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mrs. Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u935	Dear President, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, we have not received any justification for why this amendment has not been accepted, and because of the citizens of Serbia, since MPs have an amendment, I want to say something about what this amendment refers to. It refers to the fact that the governor cannot perform his post in the political site and we added another part that says – at least one year before the election to the governor. We find this amendment very useful, because the NBS can't be a party bank. She's supposed to be the bank of all the citizens of this country. The National Bank of Serbia is, above all, independent by the Constitution and by law and independent. If someone wants to be, since this applies to both the Governor and the Vice-Governors and the Director of the Supervisory Board, they want to be in that position, and we don't want a party bank, then it's perfectly logical that you accept this amendment and put professional and qualified people in those places. I am absolutely sure there are a lot of experts in Serbia who can do the job well. Of course, you won't do it and you won't accept this amendment. For what? The current ruling majority has already shown at these few sessions that this country is leading to an ever-increasing partocracy and that party control will continue and be far greater than in previous years. If you introduce party control over an independent institution, the National Bank, then what can the other institutions expect. There's no "d" in the department, which many have advocated in the campaign, but of course it was only for vote-gathering, not for what's today's reality. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I also want to say that the EU, and we in the exhibition of Prime Minister Dacic, have had the opportunity to hear that we will continue to approach the EU, suggests that such changes and additions to the Law on the National Bank are a serious step backwards from that goal. That is what the deputy head of the EU delegation in Serbia said. The European Commission believes the amendments to the NBS law will be a step backwards in harmonising Serbia with European standards. That is what EU delegation to Serbia representative Frejk Janmat said. The World Bank tells you that in the proposed amendments to the NBS Act there are elements that cause concern, that the Serbian Central Bank will not be able to work reasonably, independently. That's what the World Bank assessed. The World Bank also points to the fact that the establishment of a supervision administration for financial institutions, which will be a relatively powerful body, where their mandate is not fully clear. In my opinion, this management of supervision of financial institutions and the director of the administration will have more authority than our governor, whoever this ruling majority chooses. What the World Bank points to is that it is inadmissible for the governor, the vice governors and all the members to be elected in parliament, and you don't want to say anything about it. These are World Bank statements, undermining the credibility of the NBS, as independent institutions, and that this is a bad signal to the markets and international partners of Serbia. We in the LDP therefore submitted this amendment, given that, after Governor Soskovic submitted the resignation, he had the opportunity to withdraw this law from the procedure and, in accordance with the applicable law, to appoint a governor and there would be nothing disputed. This isn't about overseeing parliament over the People's Bank at all, because Parliament still has control over the National Bank today, because here comes the audit reports that we have a chance to see. In fact, you want to make a party bank of one party or maybe more parties, and we'll have a chance to see when you make a proposal for the governor, a proposal for the director of the supervisory board, and what will be the proposal for the vice governors. This completely destroyed the independence of the NBS, and thus completely the NBS became a party outpost, not the National Bank of all citizens. What I, as a citizen, can expect to do in the coming period, since the ruling majority will do what it plans, regardless of all the recommendations it has made by the international public and international financial institutions and regardless of all the comments made by the professional public in Serbia, to adopt this law on amendments and additions to the National Bank Act. What remains for us citizens, since we have 5,000 dinar bills today, I am really interested in – how long will it take until we get a new one of 10,000 dinars and the next one of 100,000?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u936	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like, at least, the MPs, when they discuss well preparation for the session. If the money is printed, it will be due to an increase in gross national income, not because we would maintain financial stability, as has been done so so far, and that there would be a growth in the euro rate, where someone else is rich and the citizens are poor. They didn't even make a lot of money here, you know who made a lot of money. At least two signatories of this amendment voted in favour of the basic National Bank Act, to introduce this amendment into the basic National Bank Act. Such a solution as you have suggested, as far as I know, does not exist in any solution to any state. It may exist somewhere, but in most countries – no. When it comes to these press releases, etc., I see nothing but that it's the prescribed hysteria of the outgoing governor. He delivered his hysteria to the National Assembly, delivered without a bill to international financial organisations, which responded to his statement, literally rewritten him. When you say that no assembly is elected anywhere in the world of Vice-Governors, in Croatia they are elected by the Assembly, elected by the Assembly in Montenegro, elected by the Assembly in Macedonia, in Austria by the President of the State and Government, in the Polish Assembly and in the Hungarian Assembly. This is just one piece. Does this apply to Serbia by any other criteria, or does this prove exactly what I said earlier, that the statements that some international financial organisations have given represent the hysteria of the outgoing governor, who did not even inform them of the essence of the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u938	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u939	Thank you. I am one of the signatories of this amendment. I don't know if the governor is hysterical, because you just made that statement, which is offensive. I know it's a respected professor of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, with a rather envious scientific reputation. If you don't believe it, you can go and look at his scientific papers, his reviews for his re-election. What a governor he was, we couldn't determine, because there was never a debate here. But you're now saying that our parliamentary group or amendment promoters are copying his hysteria. Mr. Arsic, I didn't know that you became an expert in psychopathology and hysteria, and I don't know exactly whether or not you know what the word hysteria means, but I'm asking you not to use these words here anymore. You can disagree with the amendment and it's totally fine, you're the promoter of each other's laws. What is proposed here, regardless of the explanation, is very clear, that if you insist so much on departing that function, then the person you propose, at least for the last year, shouldn't have any more significant position, a function in some political party. You refused without an explanation, and it's clear to everyone why you refused. My only intervention was to keep this discussion in the context of something called a decent conversation. The word hysteria doesn't belong to that conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u940	As far as this is concerned, I must say I agree with Mr. Koraq. I also ask all MPs not to use in the future expressions that are not appropriate. The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u941	Mr. President, in any case, I believe that a certain amendment should be adopted on this article of the proposed text of the law. Whether it will be an amendment proposed by the esteemed LDP colleagues or by some other amendment, but in any case the proposed text of the law needs to be corrected. But again, I have to say that when I got the material for today's session, I was in a very difficult situation, precisely because I tried to read the material from cover to cover. Please let whoever has the material in front of him now, look at it and tell me what's true. Is it true what is proposed on page 2 of the proposed material, that the governor cannot perform a function in a political party, or is it true what is stated in the review of the provisions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which are being amended, or supplemented? The 16th page of the material says that the governor cannot actively perform his duties in the political party. If he read only a review of the provisions to be amended, he would conclude that the governor cannot actively perform his duties in the political party, and in the text of the bill itself is different – he cannot perform his post in the political party. What's that distinction about that word "actively"? Where's the mistake, is it in the basic text of the law or in this second? Before we started discussing this law in principle, I asked for answers to a number of questions that would make it easier for me to get involved here today. I asked the president of the National Assembly if it was possible for all interested parties to declare the regulation, especially those in Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which have the right and to propose legislation in this area, not only to propose an amendment to the bill? So if someone has the right to propose a law, they have the right to propose an amendment, and the question is, did everyone have a 24-hour deadline to submit the amendments? Here, first of all, I mean the National Bank. We received information that the National Bank was notified during the day. We didn't get the information, at least I didn't hear about the time it was done. However, the fact is that, for example, the side of the 11th material that we have received is a contradictory argument. On the one hand, it is determined that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", so that three other positions will later stand the reasons why the law should enter before the eighth day of its publication. So I'm saying that it's obvious, when we avoid public debate, when we avoid the possibility of participation in public listening, that we come into a situation that even technically the material we've received is not right. I think all of this, starting with the way the chairman of the National Assembly's Finance Committee has been elected, where the opposition is prevented from chairing such a single committee, and now until tomorrow's proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank, where a new institution is being introduced – the Supervisory Authority, where the committee is empowered, which is the question of who is chairing, to propose the Director, what is the question of where it will be, all of which in some way be doubt or creates a reserve with the MPs. That is why I think it would be much more useful if we had received this bill earlier and had the opportunity to see what is wrong with an adequate public debate, what needs to be fixed, what even technically needs to be fixed. In any case, I point out certain contradictions, i.e. the contradictions of the review of the provisions that are changed in relation to the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u942	Thank you. For the sake of the public, I would say on your objection to the committee, since it is within the scope of the National Assembly, the committee presidents were elected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which the previous majority had brought and you know that it was something that was completely in line with the business provisions. I just don't want to get the public impression that the board presidents have been elected in a way that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or under certain suspicious circumstances, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with other positive regulations. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u943	Since I am obviously not well interpreted, I do not dispute that committee presidents have been elected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but the question of some parliamentary practice and correctness is raised, that in committees that need to exercise certain control, when someone is holding executive power, when someone will have the opportunity to have an exceptional influence on the National Bank and all of that, in that sense, I felt that it was more correct to elect a president from the opposition parliamentary groups. In that sense. I don't argue that everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not questioning whether it was any better, just to achieve the control role of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u944	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, do you want a word? No, I don't. Mrs Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u945	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few sentences. We have heard some examples of the comparative right that other states are solving the choice of governors, vice governors, etc., and what is the role of the national banks of these countries in the environment. However, I am responsibly telling you that no state has passed the law just for that reason to replace the current governor and that is the essence of this bill. With all due respect and in advance, I apologize, but I have to respond to this resignation in writing to former Governor Šoskovic, who was named by some hysterical act. I would point out that the way this law on amendments to the NBS Act was proposed is more like some kind of hysteria of the current government, or the coming governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u946	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Natasa Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u947	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the DS have submitted an amendment to Article 8. wanting to maintain the existing state of affairs, or an existing solution to the National Bank Act. We believe that the proposal to amend Article 20, paragraph 1, is in fact a clear intention to politicise the function of the governor of the NBS, as it is said that the governor cannot perform his post in the political party. When we look at this error, i.e. the inconsistencies referred to by MP Mikovic, from the proposal for the very text of amendments and the addition of the Law and Reasons, I do not think it is an accident. She is, in fact, talking about how the promoter himself sees and understands the proposed change. Therefore, in the light of the law, the proponent explains his change by saying that the governor cannot actively perform his duties. Of course, the word "actively" is lost from the bill, but it is obvious that this change can be interpreted in this way. When we say - he cannot perform his post, it means he may be frozen, or he may be elected to the governor's post today, if he resigned yesterday to a political post in a political party. We strongly oppose any politicisation of the function of governors, because we believe that this calls into question the independence and independence of the NBS, and independence is a guarantee that political parties and political officials will not have an impact on decision-making in this important monetary institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u948	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u949	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I have submitted this amendment simply to, in a way, complete the amendment proposal for the National Bank Act, proposed by the ruling regime. Why does it exist in the position of Article 8. - can't perform a function in a political party? It's enough to erase it and then there won't be a mockery of the law, there won't be hypocrisy, demagogy, because if this stays in the law, and we choose someone who's a party official, who's a candidate for prime minister, then that's exactly what that thing means. I think democracy and respect for procedure should be respected in passing laws like this. Free majority violence is not something that maintains the independence and independence of institutions. I will remind you, the previous governor and the one before him were elected by one major consensus of the parties in this House. You supported the previous as non-partisan personalities, people from the profession, people from different parties. Now we have a situation where this law is written for some party official who needs to take over as governor of the National Bank. It's certainly not good and this is a qualitative shift backwards in that sense. With this amendment, in a way, I would like to point out once again to the ruling majority that there is time to withdraw this bill. Governor Dejan Soskic resigned, there is no need to threaten the existence of Serbian citizens in some way by voting for this law, disrupting the independence and independence of the National Bank, we are questioning foreign reserves. I thank you for accepting my amendment to Article 18, but I don't think that's enough and I don't think they should be taking part in the NBS. That's not what you promised in the campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u950	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Gjorge Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u951	Dear President and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment concerns that the provisions of Article 20 that apply to the governor should apply to us and apply to the Vice Governor, given the importance of the National Bank, in the Executive Board. Here, as far as I can see, the provisions of Article 20 in paragraphs 3 and 4 speak of the governor's ability to have action, securities of value, etc., and speak more of conflict of interest, while I think Articles 1 and 2 are also important, because they speak of the governor, and, in our view, vice governors should not have a conflict of interest in the sense that they may be members of boards, political parties, supervisory boards, etc. I think those attitudes should apply to the so-called. Director of the Supervisory Authority, because it's a safe one, we see and hear here, from functions that may be more important than the function of the governor himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u952	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mirko Cvetković, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Veselinović and together MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted together. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u953	The DS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to this Member of the Bill for the reasons we consider, and linked normally, to the overall proposal in law that it would be best to delete this member. The proposal itself is composed of two parts that are important to us here. One thing is that the Vice-Governors will no longer choose the Council, but the National Assembly, which can be agreed that they are in practice countries in the environment and other countries a solution. What we think is a better solution in the current law, which is that the Vice-Governors choose the Council on a proposal from the governor, for the simple reason that the Executive Board remains that way. The governor and the vice governors were a team that had better conditions to work at the moment when we passed it on to the National Assembly with all our doubts, and unfortunately all of our doubts that we had these days have come true. There's nothing you've left us to doubt. In a short time, they're all filled. Our fear is that by crossing the election and the vice governor to the National Assembly will be like one division that every vice governor should be from another party that is in power and then there will be no more good work of the National Bank. In the second part of this article, for us lawyers, it is a technical issue, since the statute is mentioned in Article 2, so here it is only harmonized, however, I am taking the opportunity to remind myself once again of this troubled member, where the Assembly is given the authority to give consent to the statute. This granting consent to the statutes is in line, when the debate was in principle said to be done behind the institution of culture, etc., directly affects the basic positioning of the National Bank as an independent institution, and this is not deleted. What we can expect when the statute of consent comes, that the statute states that even the Rules of Procedures on the work of certain bodies of the National Bank, the National Assembly gives consent and all under the pretext of control. The control of the National Assembly is not done that way, but the independence of the National Bank is destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u954	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u955	I'd just like to make a few facts. This is where the governor, the Vice Governor and all the officials of the National Bank will be elected by the Assembly. Let's see what it looks like in countries that have a more advanced banking system than Serbia. In Austria, there are 11 members, six appointed by the federal council, the government and the president, and the Assembly of Action Five. In Austria, the General Council, President, Vice-President and eight other members is being appointed by the federal government, executive power. There's no politicizing there, right? The Management Board of the Austrian Bank – Governor, Vice Governor and two other members – shall appoint the President of the State on a proposal from the Federal Government. In Poland, the governor is elected at the request of the president of the state by parliament. Members of the Executive Board shall be appointed by the President of the State at the request of the Governor, one of the branches of the Executive Authority. No one can dispute that our way of choosing, that is, how the National Bank officials are elected, is far more just, far more concrete when elected in parliament. Everyone who deals with politics, when they try to do what is right, when they want to do what is not to run away from the public debate, does not run away from the debate in this House, there is nothing to hide from their fellow MPs, and if we are going to go on the principle that something just happens and learn about it from newspapers as MPs, then this assembly is in trouble, then it does not justify the purpose of its existence. We are the ones who need to control the executive power. We're the ones who're setting up the judiciary. So don't let parliament deny that right, no matter what political party is in power. Our recent past shows that power is the first variable category. In fact, through the election of both the governors and the Board of Governors and the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, we give you the right to control the current majority. Don't fight that right. You should be happy to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u956	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u957	We didn't argue that there aren't any in the countries in the environment, different solutions. That's not controversial. First, Croatia is closest to us, where the Parliament also elects a governor. I was only talking about fears that they'd be split up in a party, not the way they chose. This is about replacing thesis. We won't be more empowered in the opposition to control the work of the National Bank and to have some influence and insight into the work of the National Bank if we have the right here to press the key whether or not we're for a certain vice governor. Much more control is being conducted in the debate on the work of the National Bank and that is where the opposition can participate. If someone's in the majority, it's normal to have more votes and they'll always choose the governor. Our right here, believe me, and it's not so influential and easy to achieve, that we can change that decision of yours. Where we can inform the public better is when we talk about the work of these institutions specifically, not by giving consent to the statutes. Then there will be a blur on what the opposition wants, and even in the statutes they have given consent. It is not an objective and realistic exercise of control over the work of an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u958	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u959	This provision is very important, in my opinion, not because it will in some new way protect the subject that it is dealing with, but it seems to me that in some way it represents an instrument to cover things up essentially. It's weird that there's a fear of partitioning or how you could already say these positions. Mr. Šoštic, who was governor of the National Bank until yesterday, was not a party figure. Mrs Dragutinovic, who was a vice governor, became finance minister in the previous government, also, was neither in any party now. I don't see that fear of why such a provision was found in the law at all, as if somehow it were suggesting that someone who has something to do with this active policy, which we all do here in parliament, could come here and be forced to step down from that policy, so it's a very serious dilemma why the bill promoter ever came up with the idea of putting one of these things into the law. It is not disputed, when you look at things with choices in parallel, it is very diverse, parliaments, more or less, elect governors. In Western European countries, there are all kinds of practices, among other things, that executive power puts governors, but MPs who have something more to do with the right know that there are countries where judges set up justice ministers and there is no problem with functioning. It's not just about the formal legitimacy of the promoter, it's about whether certain solutions in life work or not. Unfortunately, Serbia is a country that has a unique experience among all European countries, as far as I can remember, in financial and monetary history after 1945. There was not a single country with such terrible inflation on the European continent as Serbia had. I think it's very good that there is one increased security measure of people who will be, or there is a risk that they will be directly influenced by the executive because they have an interest, if they have fought for a political list, for a political option, it is human and natural that they want such a policy to be implemented in life, that they will be inclined to, as a monetary authority, if they come into opportunity, be inclined to accept decisions or recommendations of the executive authority. This is a solution where the Board of Governors has enormous power, and the Board of Governors is elected in this Assembly, has the power to set up the Vice-Governors, has the power to discuss governors' responsibilities, represents one dam from this terrible and very close history in which we all lived together, where we were faced with an incredible national frustration, from the greatest inflation Europe has seen since the German inflation at the time of the great global crisis, and that is why this is dangerous. However, I will not say that this is dangerous, but that these are very risky topics. The changes in the Central Bank are very risky and that's why these statements are the way they are. I'll comment on this hysteria later. I appeal to the promoter and to everyone here so that we don't forget so easily what happened to us in the immediate past. This also indicates a very serious attempt to talk about, I'm sure, in a very short time, which is a member of 18, which, fortunately, is the chairman of one of the amendments, although it is also the legislator, and we'll talk about it when the time comes, when in fact the possibility of the Central Bank was open to the primary emissions. The purchase of securities from the value on the secondary market is a possibility of primary emissions. What kind of monetary authority or governor and all the other officials would do and what wouldn't, now we won't guess, but the law would be an open possibility to do so. When you connect these things, in fact, the Council gets less power than it does, and the Council is defending itself against the very traumatic experiences we had 15 years ago, and that on the other hand, the legislator had the idea to let the Central Bank's ability to have a primary show, then it's not a matter of hysteria when international financial institutions and foreign officials here in Belgrade have very sharp statements. That's what we're gonna talk about. It's very important that we all have a play, and now this isn't just about having a majority. You have a majority, you'll pass the law and there's no dilemma. You have full responsibility for that. This responsibility will be shown when the law begins to work whether it gives good results in life or not. It is very important, and is it very important that all of you together as legislators and signatories have a clear awareness of the price that all together, MPs of the majority, MPs of the opposition, and most importantly of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will have in one impression which foreign investors receive after this position of foreign officials here in Belgrade, officials of international institutions and writing foreign press, especially financial foreign press, which is more than worrying? I think it's a very important political issue, it's not a professional issue. It is a question of our shared responsibility, and it is important that we all have a clear awareness of it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u960	The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the near past, not so far away, it's been almost 20 years, and unfortunately I remember we've had some earthquakes before when it comes to the National Bank. Remember in 2003, then in 2004, then in 2010, and now in 2012. Through all these discussions and press releases, the former regime is trying to show that this law was made to make the primary money emissions. We have repeatedly said over the past period that the primary emissions of money are being made -- right here in this governor, when there was no evidence, the records that state records are being broadcast, when the National Bank's National Charter of Values is being changed, and the State Charter of Values and Papers of Values issued by the National Bank are also money, in another aggregate state, but money. In a certain way, they are. You increase the total amount of money on the market – whether it is in electronic form, in almost money or in any other form, aggregate, it is money. As a consequence, we have a 50% increase in the last four years. You are the former minister, you know the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. You know all the loans we need to repay in 2012, to which the National Assembly gave its consent. On one loan alone, we owe 700m euros. Imagine now that we're talking about citizens, that for a single dinar when it strengthens the euro, that's 700 million dinars that this country, citizens -- only one loan -- and that's not the only credit, unfortunately, with a foreign exchange clause. Public enterprises, such as EPS, Serbian Railways, are also in charge of Serbia's roads. Is the purpose of the existence and functioning of the National Bank and what are its primary and secondary objectives and how many have it achieved in this way? Primary objective – price stability achieved. Mr Petrovic, any recognised expert to ask – if the euro jumps 14%, 15% or 20%, and prices only 4% or 5%, that means it is not the merit of the National Bank in the first place, but small and low spending. There's no one to buy at cheaper prices. This means that economic operators eat themselves to survive on the market. That's the problem. How did all this happen? We talked, I don't know if you've been in the O.R. The first population was in debt at high interest. The National Bank didn't protect them at the time. After that, when the population no longer began to do anything else, it no longer had its consumption except for the naked existence, business began to be in debt. When the economy no longer had resources due to a minor inflow into the budget, the state began to be in debt. The National Bank had to preserve the stability of the financial system and all participants in the financial system and users of the financial system services. That's where this governor fell and that's the problem. In the last two years, we have spent three and a half billion euros in foreign exchange reserves. Since October 2008, more than five and a half billion euros have been spent. It means something didn't work right. Why didn't the financial sector do its job, which is to help the economy and the population, of course, with some profit, because no one does it for nothing, but not extra profits generated by high interest and artificially maintaining a high price of capital, by buying everything that is earned, buying the euro and coming out of the country? Now you're talking about the independence of the financial system. For many, the European Central Bank is a model. The governor of the European Central Bank is ready to buy state bonds from Italy and Spain, but cannot until they give him the consent of the German and French executive authorities. Today we live in the time of state interventionism, these are the times. Letting financial participants do whatever they want under the pretext of liberal participation is insane in these moments. The National Bank must, in the coming period, make moves that will stabilise the financial sector, put it in the framework of laws and regulations that the National Bank itself sets out, so that the economy can function uninterruptedly. Today we live in the time of state interventionism. That's the kind of time. And letting financial participants do whatever they want under the pretext of liberal participation is insane in these moments. So the NBS has to make moves that will stabilise the financial sector in the coming period, put it in the framework of laws and regulations itself that the NBS itself determines that it could function smoothly. Not a single economic operator, whether it deals with imports or exports, can function properly if there is no financial stability and how much price stability. No long-term development plans. He can't close strategic contracts. These are the things that make this law. The financial institutions control administration is increasing the control of financial participants on the market. Here, this famous Agrobanka, well it is 300, 350, perhaps 400m euros in damage – the majority owner of the state must make up for all the deficits. Stockholders, let me not speak, there are Austrians, Slovenians. What kind of picture did we give them? By accepting our NBS's false report that it's true. Then we're in a real serious problem. That'll tear the investors apart. All, so environmental politicians, politicians in superpowers, economists in countries in an environment in economic giants, have only one goal: stability and the political and financial system with the country they consider their partner, if it is not stable, there is no co-operation with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u962	Thank you. Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u963	As long as we don't mix Mr. Arsic, Madam Chairman, grandmothers and frogs. I have called here several times as many other MPs to have a debate. Maybe it will be when there's a debate about the new governor. It could be an opportunity. We have a debate about what monetary policy was like? Mr. Arsic is talking about re-ops, as he says about the issue of bonds made by the Ministry of Finance. It's got nothing to do with the money being broadcast. It's not a primary show. It's borrowing for cash. That's what we need to discuss. I agree, and that's what I'm talking about why we didn't have a debate about it. Was monetary policy adequate or not? Is this governor, even the previous governor, the kind of politics he ran in repo? What was the escontaneous rate policy? That was the theme here. From all of this comes out what Mr. Arsic talks about afterwards. I also think it's very bad that the credit price is 25% in dinars annually in Serbia and the price in euro is 11% or 12%. There are countries where it's higher, and it's not disputed either, but in these countries where we and our environment are in Western Europe. We're completely in competitive conditions as far as our economy is concerned, not to mention the population in charge at high interest rates. That's where we get along. The bill, until the Committee accepted the amendment, was either to allow the Central Bank to broadcast money. And it is possible that the European Central Bank will do so if they agree. The Central European Bank is functioning and is responsible for those countries that have not had hyper inflation since 1945, unlike Serbia. I'll do it again. Here was the idea of making it possible, again not to be citizens in confusion, so foreign reserves, among other things, are the savings stakes that Serbian citizens have in banks. So this law was the idea of allowing the Central Bank to use that money too, by buying securities on the secondary market. Thank God that's impossible now. In theory, it's not impossible either, but there must be a serious consensus about it. A serious consensus. His monetary policy is being run by the United States, his monetary policy is trying to define the EU. I agree that at a time when liberal capitalism is behind us and the time is national interventionism, but it can't be done in this way, but it must be seriously agreed by those who are competent to make some important assessments for risky state moves. When there is no consensus, then it is best that the Central Bank, as it has been forbidden to deal with such matters so far, because we can get into big trouble. We saw it all to this extent or that extent in 1993, if I recall correctly. It's a good thing it's all an ad act. That doesn't mean we shouldn't open a debate about it. I am absolutely certain, a billion euros for irrigation in this country, that it cannot be a missed investment. Here, Mr. Skundric is here, so let's see if this country can build a thermocentrale, can it build a hydrocentrale? How can that be a missed investment? He can't. I agree, but we need to talk about it. Those who are competent for it, but not in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u964	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Ljiljana Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u965	Thank you, Chairman. I want to remind you, when we're talking about whether the NBS has taken any steps that resemble money emissions, whether it has successfully fought inflation, to an interesting opinion by the future governor of the NBS, Mrs Tabakovic. It was here a year ago, so in this parliament, to criticise that the NBS is insufficiently fighting inflation or has some moves that resemble money emissions, the following said – firstly, extorted lending, no money, goods lending, where goods are given on delayed payments because monopolies and cartel structures condition suppliers and suppliers where they give them goods, which they certainly know will not be paid for 60 days, so they build up pre-determined growth rates, are similar money emissions. You, she's talking to Governor Šoštic, the National Bank, you're not broadcasting that money, and you're experiencing a roll call about how the money mass is increasing in payment traffic and, in some ways, inflation is increasing. No, says Mrs. Tabakovic, it's not NBS' fault, it's a lack against the cartel and monopoly structure of our economy. Has something changed now that she has the intention of being governor, so she suggests the solutions spoken of by fellow Petrovic and we will talk about? So he suggests solutions that would literally open that peach and put the NBS in a position to truly have mechanisms for money emissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u966	The word has a National MP, Radojko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u967	I fully support Mr Petrovic's idea that a debate on monetary policy and exiting the crisis should be opened. The only problem for all of us, who have a memory, we personally, as a parliamentary group, have suggested it at least 20 times in the last four years. The problem is that every government remembers what to do and what to do only when it goes into opposition. I'm sorry that for these four years, we haven't talked about any of the key problems that exist, but then the government acted alike, as we can see the power that was formed a few days ago. What's unfortunate is that the amendments to this law have not created conditions for Monday or Tuesday when a session with the governor's election is held to discuss any of these topics. On Monday, it will only be discussed the biography of the proposed candidate, whoever it is. Then we will be surprised again – why the governor behaves as a course, and so on, why he behaves for foreign exchange reserves, and so on, because the Assembly will not be able to declare any of the measures proposed by the Governor of the National Bank to the National Assembly. I'm sorry that the legislators of this law put a great burden on that governor's shoulders to be elected. A country that has this deficit, we hear it's about two billion, a country that has this kind of unemployment rate, a country that has this kind of decline in production, is hardly able to have a stable banking sector and can hardly have a stable course. What is our mission and our obligation, which is to tell the citizens the truth. As long as the economy doesn't start working, and until unemployment begins to decrease, we won't have a stable course. We can only have a stable course by spending foreign exchange reserves until we spend them. We're all young enough here and old enough to remember those years and remember what it looked like. We also remember the brilliant solutions they had in Brazil, Argentina, Hungary also had brilliant solutions, and in each case the result was completely identical. We experienced it not so long ago. I honestly believe that we will not have the desire to apply such brilliant solutions. I don't think we should fool ourselves. We have structural problems that make it impossible, and you remember Mr. Petrovic, just when it was a show, a year and a half of those foreign bonds that you and I talked about in this room. Unfortunately, this will not solve the country's structural problems as well as the 13th pension will not solve any problems, but will only make us new.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u968	Thank you. Let me ask you, Mr. Bradovich, is this the time of the parliamentary group? Authorized? Thank you. The word is Dr Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u969	There is one banal proverb that says: every evil has its own good. I don't think she's exactly right, but sometimes she has an excuse. If any benefit can come to the state or the state itself, because of this attempt to amend and supplement the National Bank Act, it is that in the beginning it has shown them that the arrogance they imagined as possible that the government can do anything and can sense everything, in time, we have indicated it during the debate and, on our part, we can commend them that they have adopted the objections that we have made to them, and this is seen in their amendments, especially the key amendment to Article 18 that occurred here and then changed it, just as the amendment tries to remove it itself. We have today on stage a reaction to the opposition that has been telling you here for days that the law is not right, that this arbitrary ambition that you must meet some personal solutions with the brutal violence, that it is bad, and a bad sign for the government. Secondly, you have a professional public. So I haven't heard any more serious economists show up to support one of these measures. So, a government that doesn't listen to the public, it's a gray society that's mentioned here, so I'm certainly in one of my own self-wills that will cost it. Then came international monetary institutions, the IMF, the World Bank continued to push its idea very hard, for which the government and how much it interfered in the independence of the National Bank, and then diplomatic appeals came, so far appeals, from the EU, through the American embassy and many others. It is good, then, that the government and the promoter realized that the violent push of a bad law in which the government usurps many powers and independence of monetary policy is devastating and not feasible. We hope that this case, which has now happened with the National Bank, will be a warning that they will also give up many other attempts to implement an arbitration policy exclusively led by current political power. There's something called -- rule of law, it's threatened, when it threatens to fall in line with all institutions because the law loses authority. There is then no more than the independence of the judiciary, neither of the independence of the National Bank nor of the regulatory bodies, etc. I expect, the government mentions some consensus, etc., but only in some limited issues. No limited questions. If you want a serious debate, then we'll debate every issue. The debate is, of course, possible before making a decision and after making a decision. The debate before making a decision is good because it allows and affects the decision. After making the decision, the debate is more of an expression of free speech than it does. According to Milosevic, however, despite his self-rule when he replaced Governor Avramovic, he brought him here all day and he answered questions, explained, assured them what was devastating in attempts to put the National Bank under direct control of the government. We had a debate where he participated. You have now done something that is an injury, if you will, to human rights. You put a man on a wall of shame, didn't give him the opportunity to speak and explain his views here. A variety of presses, not to mention her character, in the most vulgar way slandering and trying to embarrass a man of credibility. This is a bad example, if it is thought that the reinforced political heifer will be able to produce something – it will not. With these hacks through the press and irresponsible accusations of these millions – for those, for these banks, for whatever they want, without any evidence, without any debate, is something that puts citizens' mistrust in order and in their own safety. The Protector of the Citizens would have to react and protect any man who, even the Assembly, if you will or any authority, undocumented and without any evidence, is thus slandered. This is not all about honor, nor the established regime, and of course not for us as one civilized society, as we are having discussions. In the end, one little thing. This is about the governor. From the point of view of gender equality, we have already introduced that we are talking to the president or the president, the minister or the minister, but this is only about the governor. Does the promoter think to exclude members of the female, from competition for this function, or if he doesn't, then he would have to put on a governor or governor. So much for defending the right to gender equality that we adopted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u970	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković, Janko Veselinović, joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Đorđe Stojsic, and joint MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petković and Aleksandar Pejčić. The proposal representative is the Committee on Finance of the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u971	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, respected presidency, we have been discussing one important law for two days now, the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The opposition says the law is politicised, extremely bad, while the ruling majority says it is good and will improve the work of the NBS. What we don't need to forget is that the NBS Act is the cornerstone of the financial system, i.e. The foundation of the monetary system, the foundation of the banking system, the foundation of the foreign exchange system, and that this fourth type of government should be done in one quality way, so as not to repeat it in Serbia's economy, in the economy, as well as in Serbia's citizens' living standards. For these reasons, DSS MPs have asked to open up, if not a public debate, then debate here in parliament, and to invite all NBS representatives to answer certain questions. The former governor himself was supposed to come and give us some answers. You know well that DSS MPs voted against that law that was here in 2010 at the National Assembly. Also, we don't understand, dear friends, which is why this law is passed by emergency procedure, because you all know very well - which is fast and short. So this National Bank Act has certain anomalies and shortcomings that we have detected through certain amendments. Our parliamentary group has submitted certain amendments. Among other things, my esteemed colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 and asked that this member simply be deleted, because it is a new administration that will oversee both the work of the governor and the executive board and the vice governors, the maltene derogates and devasts their functions. That was our goal and that was our reason. We expected the authorized proponent to accept that. Namely, our intention and desire through these amendments was to improve the text of this law that we consider not to be good. As you know, and that's what we said in the debate in principle, we'll vote against. You have amendments to the DSS, accept, improve that text of the law, and that would be the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u972	Thank you. Theodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u973	This bill, by adding this Article 21a, is further under discussion by the supervisory authority which would not be controversial, because this type of supervision of banks in the National Bank exists today is the sector, whether it will be called the sector or administration. We all know who we're monitoring the work of the National Bank and a little bit on the expert side, not just from the political side, that until now it's always been controlled by one of the vice governors. What is new here, and what will make the work of the National Bank of Serbia much more difficult, is how this administration is positioned, and in particular how the director of the administration is introduced which will no longer be a vice governor. I remind you of the choice mentioned here. The governor is elected to the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic. Then, the vice governors are elected to the National Assembly on a proposal from the governor. The director will be elected to the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee. In this way, it is clear to the end that the director of the administration will not be on the team, he will be a parallel body or supervision of the work of the governor and vice governor, because, practically, if he has no influence on the proposal for a choice, he will have no influence either on the proposal to replace him. The two-state government that is being introduced is in no way diminished, or only formally reduced by change, which is not signed double, but will only sign the bank's work solutions, just the governor. It's just formal. Essentially, this two-authority will remain with this and with this member of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u974	Thank you. George Stoisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u975	Thank you. Also, on the occasion of Article 10, we gave the amendment to delete. For the same reason that some colleagues already explained, we're going back to that, with that so-called. The management of financial institutions is practically removed from the hands of the governor, especially given that the director of that administration proposes the Finance Committee, which is not clear to me for what reasons, given that this is a very narrow professional function that the Governor himself should be doing. Generally, there is a trend in the world that these functions, at a time of the global economic crisis, are precisely increasingly centralizing within the National Bank and are the first on the list of governors' priorities. I think the creation of this administration is forming, in a way, some new quasi SDK. I don't see what good it'll do the financial sector. Six, seven years ago, when loans were largely taken, praises were being given to privatising the financial sector of banks, etc., so that today they would come into the situation that we are practically having big problems, because neither citizens nor businesses can repay the loans they were taking at the time, and now it is the same financial sector that is being accused, that all parties are guilty because in the country we have macroeconomic problems that are more structural and have little to do with it. I think the introduction of a new administration is just one of the activities in the series, that whenever we have to face some new problems, there are new administrations in Belgrade, agencies, directorates, where hundreds of thousands of some officials and bureaucrats are employed, who then, receiving large salaries, have been experiencing these problems for years and are trying to solve them, largely unsuccessfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u976	Thank you. Mr. Radojko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u977	We have proposed an amendment to delete Article 10. We have already said before that, because of all the problems that exist, we fully understand the desire to introduce a management to control supervision of financial institutions. A member of the applicable National Bank Act shall not be amended. The administration would only be a special organisational continent in the National Bank and would have all the necessary powers. By erasing this article, this newly formed administration would not lose anything, and we would get the removal of any suspicion that there will be abuse, because when you look at the powers, no new authority is introduced that already does not exist, only removes any possible suspicion that this administration will abuse the position of the National Bank and create a bad picture of both the state and our financial sector. The important thing is that by erasing this article, you would lose or change the way you propose. It is completely illogical that the Finance Committee proposes the Director of an organisational continent within the National Bank. The National Bank is important, but you have as many administrations as you want, perhaps not as important, and perhaps more important. Customs administration is probably as important as the Financial Sector Control Board, so the Assembly does not propose a director of the Customs Administration, etc. The third thing I want to point out is the term of office of the director of the supervisory board, which is defined here by a duration of six years. Another confusion is being introduced, and this is the duration of the term of office, because until now the governor has had a term of six years, it still has, the Council has had a term of six years, now it is cutting to five years. Why is it that a term of office of five, six, say, the Constitutional Court has a mandate of nine years? It is precisely because of the concept of independence of these institutions and independence from the current government, because it is the desire that these mandates of different bodies, different institutions, be longer than the mandates of parliament, or government, and it is precisely the idea that in the system, at one point in time in the state, we have representatives of the highest institutions that did not choose the current power that won the elections. It opened several times today, and it opened two days ago, the issue of independence. Obviously, it will be a dominant question that we will discuss in the next period, because I'm afraid we have a completely different understanding of the role of independent institutions. An independent institution must have a clear mandate. If there is no clear mandate, then as the National Assembly, we have failed the exam because our laws are not clear enough and precise enough. All independent bodies provide us with financial plans and annual work plans. If we are not satisfied with what they are doing, we are again, as the National Assembly, responsible because we are not good enough to participate in the process of determining their plans, their work programmes, and we are not well enough to control their reports, but it is unacceptable to change absolutely every independent head man of every independent institution, representative or governor of the National Bank, because the equality of the objectives is not achieved by voting for someone in the election, but rather by clearly setting up tasks for an institution and setting clearly their work programmes. By doing so, we will do much better to realize independence than by listening to some majority, either in the congregation or elsewhere, to speak out for a certain person, before listening to very commendable ones about certain candidates for some new functions. Since I've been sitting in this room for quite a while, I remember the same sentences, the same words, except they were directed to other people they were supporting at that time. I think we all know what I'm talking about and who I'm talking about and what I'm talking about. It doesn't lead us anywhere, because there will always be someone who praises me today, tomorrow you, and the day after that someone else, like Borko Stefanovic used to do a great job, and then from the same people who praised him here yesterday and defended him for our attacks, then now he gets a lot of criticism. He's here, so I'm good-looking as an example, he won't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u978	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u979	I think that the importance of the issue calls for public several uncontested facts and, of course, to accept this amendment to DS and DSS, because these proposed changes are further politicising this important body for the control of financial institutions. I think that these days, from the representatives of the motionor, the public has been deluded into the idea that the National Bank has so far failed to actually exercise serious control over financial institutions, which is incorrect, because there have also been regular and extraordinary controls regarding disputed banks in which there have been major abuses. All relevant reports and police and prosecutors have been delivered, so not because of the desire to defend the governor and what he did, but because of the truth, it should be said that, above all, the prosecution and the police have scheduled it, so it is also a question for the current prime minister and the police minister – why did the police not do their job in time if the National Bank had the necessary controls? Secondly, I think that, too, the proposing representatives are going to create some kind of atmosphere in the local public that there are some foreign banks that make a huge profit here, so they're going to get in the way which, of course, is not true again. For the sake of the public, it should be said that all the banks in our market, primarily domestic legal persons, have a large starting role, that regular control is being carried out and that indeed reform in this sector is one of the best system reforms that we have implemented. We do not need this kind of message, primarily because of foreign investors who and how they follow what is happening in our country and so far we have not heard the enthusiasm of a single foreign investor that the government, as one of the first measures, is pleased to change the National Bank Act. I think I could agree here with all the colleagues who said that we here need to discuss serious structural problems, how to make and bring a plan of serious financial consolidation, how to increase employment, how to put the budget deficit back into the agreed framework, and how to implement an even more restrictive monetary policy in the context of the global economic crisis, when all governments of the serious countries do so. Of course, if this solution remains, we will have one continuation of politicisation, one more step back, which will not be good, not only for the citizens of Serbia, it will not be good for the government, and it will not be good for potential investors either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u980	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u981	Realising that the obviously ruling majority does not want to accept the amendment to the proposed Article 10, which my colleagues from the DS parliamentary group have submitted, I have proposed an amendment that intervenes and shortens the term of director of the supervisory board from six years to two years. I'm glad that Mr. Arsic has returned to the O.R., and I am pleased that his position is to be debated here on the bill. True, I have not received answers to all the questions I have asked in so far, and especially to this day, we do not have an analysis of the situation, at all, of the situation in this matter that justifies the adoption of the law. This is our obligation under Article 151. Rules of Procedure. To date, we do not have an analysis of the situation, although the reasons for the law being passed on the eighth side of the proposed material are stated, but without an analysis of the existing situation. That's why I think in this very important matter we should work on based on a detailed analysis of the situation, not just how we feel or how we think we should solve it. In that part, in particular Article 10, I have proposed an amendment that would shorten the mandate to two years, as a supervisory authority is being introduced to take on high responsibilities and responsibilities. I therefore believe that the Director should be shortened to two years with re-election rights, which will allow, if nothing else, at least two years later, a detailed analysis of all the positive and negative consequences of the implementation of the supervisory board, as well as the work of the director of the supervisory board, and the possibility of re-election will allow the Director to choose again if he shows good results in his work. In the end line, if not before, then at least in two years we'll have this detailed analysis. Also, since the assembly majority demonstrates its will to limit certain powers to the governor, to shorten even the term of office of the governor by voting this law, if the governor's resignation did not take place, the term of office would be shortened, in the next Article 11, a reduction of the term of office is proposed to the council from six years to five years. It's obvious that it's trying to show primate executive authorities in those areas where the National Bank should be independent and where the governor should be independent. In addition, if this amendment is accepted, in case the mandate of the executive government, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is completed earlier, there will be no need to torture the new government with the proposed new law, but will be able to elect a new supervisory director after two years. That's why I'm joining the entire argument of my colleagues from the DS parliamentary group. I am giving this proposed amendment a back-up solution to shorten at least the director's mandate and in some ways it does not lead to a privileged position in relation to others, i.e. the National Bank Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u982	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u983	I would like this debate really not to be academic, first of all from the desire for Serbian citizens to know what this law is really about. In particular, this article makes clear the proposal's intention to make the National Bank Council through the Board of Governors a division of prey between political parties that make up the ruling majority or as they like to say – the ruling regime. Namely, this proposal significantly reduces the council's powers, he would no longer choose the vice governors on the governor's proposal, nor lead the selection of an internal auditor. Why? Serbian citizens should know that. First of all, because this election will now be realised by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling majority. Thus, it could not happen that any advice, which is an independent body and is chosen from the ranks of experts, therefore, not political representatives, so that it could not happen that a vice governor, by any chance, is someone who is not a member of some of the parties who will receive seats as a consolation prize in the names of the vice governor. So now the Vice-Presidents as we just did with the vice-presidents of the Assembly will be given individual parties to the ruling coalition and perhaps those close to them. The fact that the council's mandate is shortened from six to five years, again in a way gives primate to the governor, i.e. the governor and the director, since there is no idea who is first, and who is really responsible for the monetary policy of the Republic of Serbia. So, instead of the council, monetary authority is partly transferred to the Assembly in fact to a ruling coalition that will place its party personnel at the vice governor's posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u984	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's see who's on the current council, and explain to me whether you want to accuse us of what you want us to do, that we want to do it, and we don't think about it, you've already done it. So, a member of the council, a certain Mr. Milojko Arsic, former adviser to Mirko Cvetkovic, employed by CES Mekon on the payroll. It advocates the sale of JAT, advocates the sale of Telecom, advocates not to reduce the value added tax on baby equipment and food for the feeding of infants and children of younger age, or a certain Costa Josipovic who works in the province. So, don't, you're already seeing a classic conflict of interest, and you want people like that to decide who's going to lead and be vice governors. You have to admit that the National Assembly is something, I agree with many proposals, discussions that the ruling majority can vote whatever they want. That's what you've proven to us so many times. Countless times. That's why you had laws falling in the Constitutional Court. But something that is responsible for the ruling majority prevents anything that is not good from letting it into Parliament's procedure is that the solutions are bad because of the public debate that should be here. You can do anything by force, but if you are responsible, be careful what you do, I am increasing the level of control of all the people who should be the subject of this House's work and evaluations. That's where we're different from you. We don't want anything going on behind closed doors, we don't want people who don't deserve to be in those places. These are the reasons why Parliament should take this role. There is no division of political prey. We have already proven several times in a short time that we do not consider this power a political prey, and we have offered many, who are not members of any political party that make up the congregation's majority, to assume the proper state functions. Because Serbia today is in such a situation that we need, not us, but the citizens, the best people this country has, to get the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u986	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u987	It is possible that the DS and the majority to whom it belonged, that is, the majority that is now the majority in the National Assembly, to remind you once again, had passed laws as she wanted, or as she thought best. Never did the National Assembly, while the DS was a backbone of the ruling coalition, unlike the current ruling coalition whose backbone is made by the SPS and G17+, passed laws intended for one person. She never passed laws concerning Peter Petrovic or Mark Mark Markovic. You gentlemen are passing a law for one particular person, or for two specific persons. We already know the name of one person, and we know she'll be governor as professor said. Micunovic, for another person, who will be the director, we do not know that yet, but you certainly know that and will certainly not be from the ranks of experts, even if banking experts. On the other hand, we're trying to direct the whole discussion to distract you from the road you're headed, which is a threat to NBS independence. You have received EU reactions, the IMF, but not underestimating the statements that have come from this side, I remind you that they are now vacationing in the EU, and IMF officials are on vacation. So you got their governor's answer. You won't get the right answers until September. Unfortunately, I think it will be too late then, and the consequences of this Law and amendments to the NBS Act, made for one man, due to one salary, made also for political interest, or two people and two salaries, that Serbia's citizens will feel the consequences next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u988	Thank you, Mrs. Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u989	Thank you. Someone has already said that Mr. Arsic, in the debate today, often acts as if he is mixing grandmothers and frogs. He spoke earlier about some people who form NBS leadership and resented their professional, professional views on tax policy. To remind Mr Arsic, this is not the jurisdiction of the NBS, it is the full authority of the government and the mentioned member of the NBS leadership can have any opinion he wants. These days we have been informed through the media, that Mr Dinkic, for his right hand, will have an esteemed tax expert, I highly appreciate the competences of the person mentioned in the media, which is explicitly against the use, or the elimination of taxes on baby equipment and food. It's already a second topic, because the government is in charge here, she decides on it. So let's leave it to experts, experts, people who have proven themselves in areas where they act that when they're not in a position to implement a policy, let's hear their opinions. For example, for me, it was a very interesting argument from the lady who will be the right hand of Minister Dinkic now as finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u990	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u991	I try not to mix grandmothers and frogs, but at least I know one thing. It is not a matter of government tax policy, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax, the Government can only propose. It's a matter of this House. At least for a few days, as a folk MP, that's what you should have learned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u992	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u993	Of course, it is important to ask who will be the vice governors, whether there will be people of profession and politics, who will be the internal auditor, whether the internal auditor will see everything he needs to see or see only what someone tells him or doesn't tell him and what his reports will be, so that Mr. Janko Veseinovic's proposal is very involved. Secondly, I think under pressure, above all, the opposition, in the National Assembly and the professional public, probably, in part and Brussels, the ruling majority gave up on a highly disputed member 18. A bill of law, which is good. I think it is necessary to recognize the really constructive proposals that are in the general interest that the law really would be better, that its reflections and consequences would be produced, and the adverse consequences would certainly come. We're here, I think, just trying to make the harmful consequences as little as possible. Secondly, it is also an assessment, this is not about lex specialis in the right sense of that word, because lex specialis as a special law treats only a particular social area, i.e. a phenomenon in a special way. This is largely about lex individualis, about individual law regarding one person, which we've had in history, but not this way. They knew kings, rulers, etc., that they were giving a person citizenship. Here, we will now give someone the People's Bank and we will give politicians the National Bank, and when the National Bank doesn't know the politics to say no, then the adverse consequences are inevitable.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u994	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u995	First, I join my colleagues who have submitted the amendments. I'm glad Mr. Arsic's back. I don't think it's necessary for us to convince each other here how important legislative authority is and how crucial it is in the adoption of acts that made it. Mr. Arsic, listening to you, and I know that there are people in your ranks of excellent lawyers and people who know and the French bourgeois revolution, I'd get the impression that you're talking about the convention system. However, in addition to our Constitution, guaranteed by the law of regulated law, to vote for certain provisions, I do not see what kind of new control we have established for these solutions. I think you're aware of that, too. I think you as well as the man who's from the profession, you know that. The second thing is that politics is like that and that it dictates your behavior, not taking care of what's left of you. What I told you yesterday, I say today, in addition to having to express my really great gratitude to the regime because it has accepted our amendment is preventing the incursion of foreign exchange reserves, that I must say it would be good for the regime to accept in this situation and other truly well-intentioned amendments that, sooner or later, as I told you yesterday, will come back to the agenda of this assembly. I'm sure very soon, by the election of your party's vice-president for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, you'll change this law too. Why? Because it is opposed to all the ossuaries that rule in the place that we all strive for together, which is the EU, because, despite establishing one way of choice that no one here disputes, so that there will be no replacement of the thesis, so the Assembly should make a choice of governors, but the question is also why are you asking this bill, I know that many before me, and you have not given an answer, is being introduced this truly difficult legal and professional dualism of the government in the National Bank of Serbia. Of course it's justified. I know that if it even puts a smile and a laugh on your faces, it's an icy character, because we used to be when we were what you call the former regime, which confirms that you're the regime, because if we're the former, then you're the regime, and I'm back in that termological game with you that's not our side, the regime is the word of French origin, meaning power or whoever's doing it, but it has a non-democratic connotation. The word junta is Spanish and means group of people. So if you think about continuing with this, make sure that you can get some labels on our side that are purely termologically very clean. What's certain is that now that two governors are established, defacto, the question of the vice governors is raised. As my colleagues pointed out, there is indeed a justifiable fear, because knowing some ideas that come from the regime, which have been announced earlier, which is being bitten by a snake, that lizard is also afraid, respected gentlemen of the regime, and therefore, you really need to tell us in public now whether the people of Vice-Governors will be not only the names you listed, let's say, Professor. Josifidis, who is a respected professor of the Faculty of Economics in Novi Sad, but is that going to be one of the G17s, one of the SPS? You must give someone to the Roma Party as well. Gentlemen, you must take that rightful fear away from us, for he is the fear of the citizens, not our own. We're not afraid of you, but the citizens want to know if this piece of cake wears a party color. If not, what can I trust you to do, then tell us the criteria for doing so. I repeat, I'm not talking about the Assembly voting. If you wanted to introduce what you're talking about, and it's congregation control, it can't be reduced to just a naked act, act, or whatever you want to call it, the choice of a functionary. It's undeniable, Mr. Arsic. Well, we're not going back to prehistoric times, are we? If you wanted to strengthen this home, you should have given your muscles to the Finance Committee. You should have done what is in the civilized world, to which you call, not just a water heater where someone needs to raise a hand, but to get those people you're going to put off the party list because of your appetites, to come before that committee, which you didn't give to the opposition, which is precedent, and that this committee not only asks them, but also to approve them before they come to the plenary session, but it's already too abstract for you and in that sense I don't expect an answer. The continued work of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Arsic, you mentioned, but he does not write or establish any new practice, because the work of the National Bank does not change in that sense. You're avoiding being at least exactly what you're proposing. What's for sure is that with this proposal, citizens need to know, you're trying to camouflage what you want to do by emphasising the role of the Assembly in selecting certain people. That's what you do. What you're doing is creating institutional chaos in an independent institution, where you don't even know what the supervisory board is going to do, specifically, how and how it works. What we can safely say today is that I'm getting word that this man is going to be from G17 or from the U.S.S. If that's not true, I'll apologize to you in public and say I'm not getting a good call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u996	Mr. Shane, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u997	I only report for comments since the Roma Party is mentioned. Those who were in parliament in 2007, and the DS we co-operated with in 2007 and 2008 in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, while in Beocino we co-operated with the SRS at the time, says very clearly that the Roma Party has never asked, nor is it now asking us to lead a staff policy based on the politicality of certain personnel. In that sense, we will certainly not ask someone in the NBS to be just because he is a member of a particular political party. If someone thinks it's bad in this country, then it's not really his place in a party that wants to be called DS, it's probably not even his place in this society. It will best be explained by representatives and defenders of democracy in Serbia. There's something else I want to make clear, and I think we should put an end to it. When it comes to the Roma Party, we've worked with many. As we were not secretaries in the government of Bojan Pajtic, and as we helped him, so we did not insist on the ministerial posts in this government, and surely we brought most more votes than some of the parties that are now there. For us, it has always been a principle of quality, of being people who do good to Serbia, of being people who will also help socially endangered people in Serbia and the Serbian people in general, as well as all Serbian citizens. In that direction, I ask you that those who have worked and hired people by party membership, and today are the reasons why they have to change because they have made peas and illegal things that are wrong, must change in this way. In that sense, we also support this law and accept it as a way of changing the illegal things that the previous government did, I don't use another term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u998	The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u999	I want to apologize to Mr. Shain, because I didn't apostrophe his game with a goal, but you entered my field of vision, and that's why I mentioned you, and since I know that the group on this side of the regime's majority is a fundamental movement, not a party, and that party, ie. The SNS which is the backbone of the majority within their movement may, in essence, have the slightest impact. But the fact that you and I agree on everything you've said, we agree primarily because you and I both know that you've been good to everyone, and in that sense you'll definitely keep doing it. I think that the people within the regime's majority see it, and this is evident in relation to the previous amendments and the previous draft laws. Once again, I appeal to distinguished colleagues to carry out deeper and more frequent consultations with their MPs, since they seem to be using the argument too often – us infected by the former regimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1000	Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened carefully to a colleague from the former regime, but I did not notice a reaction -- how is one member of the council dependent on former Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and that he is on the CS Macon payroll? It doesn't matter, it doesn't play any role. Otherwise, Professor Costa Josifidis is not a vice governor. We have four and these are Bojan Markovic, Ana Gligorijević, Mira Eric-Jovic and Dijana Dragutinovic. It's just a member of the council. He teaches at several universities, I agree with that, but he also works various projects for the province government – I don't know how much money these projects have earned, but in any case his dependence on the executive government is also shown. I'd love it, since you're so psychic, to tell me, because you're talking like you already know who's gonna be in the NBS Council and who's gonna be the vice governors, too, so you can tell me. I wish I knew that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1002	Anyone else want a word? (No). The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1003	This amendment is related to Amendments 3 and 4, and it is talking about the proposed establishment of a supervisory authority. In the view of DS MPs, the establishment of a supervisory board is necessary, it creates legal uncertainty and introduces a two-way within the NBS, as it will not know who is responsible for monetary policy. This solution doesn't exist anywhere in parallel law, as far as I know. Already now there are appropriate organisational parts in the NBS that are doing the jobs that this administration is going to get. There are two possible solutions that exist in parallel law. The first is that the work of surveillance is being done by the governor himself, which he has so far had under our legal system, according to the current NBS Act. The second parallel solution is that an independent institution outside the Central Bank does so. Such a solution that within the Central Bank there are two bodies, one of which controls the other, one of which is not defined by the Constitution, but is defined only by the governor, creating legal uncertainty, creating a two-state government and creating everything that can result. In this way, I said, there is a policy of partyization of the NBS and I would agree entirely with my colleague, Chiquiris, that this is not a Lex specialis, but that according to the legal nature of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Lex Personalis Act, it is made for one person, or one person and several party officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1004	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1005	I love it when my dear colleagues criticize the law and sometimes jump into their own stomachs. If you already know who will be governor, if you already know the name and last name, that the party person is, that he will be elected in a few hours, etc., so you criticize us, and then you say – this law reduces the powers of the governor, is now someone crazy if he writes the law for himself, that he cuts his powers? I don't know anything like that. Article 95. The Constitution knows two institutes – the National Bank and the Governor. Did the National Bank have any advice under that same constitution, according to that old, or valid law? Yes, it is. Did she have an executive board? Yes, it is. Are those constitutional categories? No, they're not. The supervisory authority has not been notified of the NBS system. It is in the National Bank system of a new body, and if you read this article more carefully, on which you have submitted the amendment, the governor is obliged to submit a report to the Council on the implementation of monetary policy at least once every three months, and it also states in the old law, the applicable law. Nothing's changed. The Supervisory Authority is also delivering a report to the Council. So, the Council remains the highest authority of the National Bank, and it is represented by the governor, as well as the National Bank, and there is no two-alignment. Nothing more, that's what it's all about. If it's political law, as you claim, then why are you criticizing us to deny any future governor, the alleged politician, authority? It's against itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1006	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović has the word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1007	I'm not sure you'll applaud when you hear what I heard this morning, or hear it from your colleagues. It would be that, Mr. Arsic, you are not telling the truth because you are under-informed or that you are an insignificant member of the SNS parliamentary group. The future governor on the Management Board, chaired by her, said in the presence of my colleagues that she would be governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. It means that you are under-informed, and you don't know who will be governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and we are now fighting for an independent institution, or we expect it to be someone else outside of the political circles of the SNS. It won't be, Mr. Arsic. Secondly, we're defending the governor's institution, anyone to perform it. That is why we are against reducing the authority of the governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we are against the introduction of two-authorities. So, besides the governor, for the MPs, you all know that, but for the citizens, the National Bank also gets a director, and there's a co-authority in place, and that's what this is all about. Legal uncertainty is being created, and we are against the fact that the governor is deprived of the Constitution of a guaranteed right, or one right to be the head of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. With these changes, at least two people will be headed by the National Bank of Serbia. I said I knew who the governor was and who the governor would be. I don't know who's gonna be the director. Mr. Stefanovic gave his word that he would apologize to you on the matter, if it isn't some G17 staff, I don't really have that information, but we have this first information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1008	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1009	Madam Chairman, I really need to protest. Articles 106 and 107. So, the speaker is also obliged to deal with respect. It cannot be addressed directly, i.e. Article 103. - He spoke directly. He said that a man, a member of parliament, who is now a representative of the proposings, and who is now 126 MPs, is an insignificant MP in a parliamentary group, or something like that, and they talk about institutions from the same parliamentary group. The institution is not this building, the institution is 250 MPs. We can sit in the meadow, as my friend Dragan Markovic Palma would say, and we are the Assembly. This building isn't the Assembly. We 250 are the National Assembly and each is equally important and important. Those who tell us about institutions don't understand that either, and talk about institutions, talk about the National Bank of Serbia. Foreign reserves have been reduced by several billion euros since they led the country. They tell us about the economic situation, about EU objections, wages are lower by 100 euros on average, 400,000 people receive less. They double-debted the state while we were in power in the institution, the Assembly, we're sitting here talking normally, we're having an argument, we're talking about everything, we're talking about the bill, and we still have to take offense. So you were really under the obligation to warn the gentleman while he was talking about what he said. This is an objection to you, not a gentleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1010	I ask all MPs to stick to the subject and respect the dignity of this house. Thank you. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1011	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the sake of the public, something like this has never happened on the Administrative Board. Also, for the sake of the public, we from the parliamentary group and on behalf of the legislator of this law do not worry about the integrity of one function in the state. Yes, the governor is just one function in the state. We care about the integrity of the entire body, which that governor should represent, and we protect that authority from the governor's will. That's what this is about. As the president of the Assembly is the first among the equals, so the governor has only one vote in the Council and has no two powers, as you keep trying to present it. And the National Bank Executive Board and the Supervisory Authority report to the Council and the Council adopts that report, and we report to the National Bank through the Council's report. There's no such thing as two powers. We simply want to improve the control of the financial market by the National Bank by amending and supplementing the law. Nothing more. One man, whoever he is, in times like this, can make someone addictive. One organ much, much harder. That is the purpose and purpose of the adoption of this law. When you realize that they should be the ones who need to make decisions, not an individual, then we can talk about going to a better country. Look, in every political party, the authorities make decisions. You want the National Bank to have an individual do that, so it can't. It's the organ that makes the decisions. The individual can agree with them, he may disagree, if the manager has to sign the solution whether he likes it or not, that's the reason for launching the resolution procedure. And that's a solution he doesn't agree to implement. I guess that's how the state administration works. However, the National Bank is only one organ. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1012	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1013	I said we could go ahead, because I just wanted to distract myself, but since there's been a technical confusion, MPs enjoy immunity for the spoken word, and that's very important. But that does not mean that they can easily in the heat of fighting, representing parties or other interests, send incorrect messages to the public about key institutions, as well as key institutes. One of them, since it is heard for the third time, is that 250 MPs are in the field of the congregation, as you know. There are 250 MPs in the field. The National Assembly can ambush, discuss, and decide exclusively according to procedures, as scheduled, where it is scheduled under decision-making procedures, and that makes it the National Assembly. Since the example is, I completely understand, given metaphorically, but not to create a public confusion. We had an example just two days ago, as one institution is made, in this case it was Ombusman. With the kind of responsibility of the participant of what is possible, about the way it is done and through which procedures. We are now doing the same thing about the People's Bank, and I have no objection, nor will some MPs be thanking the wrong people, for what was done by the law of the People's Parliament from this place, two days ago where a member who could directly be asked to raise suspicion, but also to threaten the actual independence of an institution, to erase. Until this discussion will accept a whole series of amendments that will allow whatever, whether motivated, different amendments to the law, they to function. Really correcting those shortcomings seen in the functioning of an institution and institution that has been consistently established in previous years. We must, in the interest of all citizens, care for it, and in the interest of political parties, we can share incorrect information, bi-authority, not bi-authority, constitutionality, not constitutionality, so MPs enjoy immunity and I am grateful for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1014	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1015	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I didn't plan to report on this amendment, but just a little before one insinuation was made, one of the untrue colleagues from the former regime, which is probably because they are calling for some powers that are not natural, for some reporting, for some things that aren't even within the law. He said that Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, on the Administrative Board, said she would be the next governor. I'm a member of the Administrative Board, I've been to every session, every meeting, from beginning to end. There were colleagues from the opposition, there were colleagues from my parliamentary group. I'd like someone to confirm such a story as you did earlier, I'm sorry, I'm speaking directly, I won't do it anymore. Can it come from the street, can it come from upstairs, can it from the other room? I would simply not like things to happen in this high house any more, as Mr. Borko Stefanovic said earlier, very professionally speaking about the National Bank, so by mixing the vice governor and members of the council, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Inform yourselves, before you speak in this high house and do not use falseness. Now that you're on the other side of a scale called power, now that you're members of the former regime, doesn't necessarily mean it's an unnatural state. I will use only one sentence often used by my colleague Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, which is: "In the opposition it is difficult only for the first 10 years, after which you will get used to it."
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1016	The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment complies with the constitutional legal system. The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1017	So, the public has new information, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic will not be the governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Some of these two things have to be true, and we'll see about that Monday. On the other hand, I'm really not, and I apologize to Mr. Arsic, if it's in the fact that I said that I didn't believe that he was an insignificant member of the SNS that he didn't know that information, I didn't think that he was an unimportant member, and I think that every member of the Parliament club was important, but I thought he was telling the truth. I thought he wasn't telling the truth when he said he didn't know who the governor was and that she was a stranger. Basically, I'm moving on to the amendment. It also comes down to amendments three and four, the way we try to present our disagreements with this law, sometimes using illustrations, parallel law and other methods, is not to promote the party's policy that is in opposition. Let me remind you, we have been in opposition for a long time, unlike you who were almost in all the authorities by 2000, and even the existing regime, as you call it, has been in power until this term of government. It is not our goal, but to point out to you the very bad solutions of this law, the fact that you are creating a two-way system, that you are violating the Constitution of the RS, you are exempting it from the authority of the governor, the powers given to it, from giving it to other individuals, or other bodies. That's our goal. Our goal is not to lose the credit rating. Our goal is not to be pushed aside from the IMF. Our goal is not to be the black spot of the EU. Our goal is not to go backwards from where we were until this government's election, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1018	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still want to be serious about this business and public talk about this pay phone, and I don't care. I will know who will be the candidate, not the governor, under two conditions – when I get it in writing from the assembly service by the President of the Republic, or if he doesn't tell me before that in some oral conversation. When you mention that Article 14 and that two-authority, Article 14 is amended, respectively, Article 26, which regulates both the Governor, the Vice Governors, the Director of the Supervisory Board and the members of the Council, shall cease their mandate in the bodies in which they work. Nothing more. There's no two-authority here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1020	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukovic, Janko Veselinovic, the president of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the republican budget and the control of the spending of public funds, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislation considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic and joint MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic, the chairman of the proposing and Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of the spending of public funds, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislation considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mrs Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1021	Thank you Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament. It is one of the amendments that has been tabled for the reason that we have noticed that there is an intensities of the promoter, to leave out a two-stage decision regarding the resolution of NBS officials. I would point out, in fact, to the Constitutional Court's policy, which he made when he decided on the judges' complaints, when he specifically pointed out that they have the right to a fair trial, which means they have the right to second-degree decisions, which, moreover, in that sense, has been annulled all that the High Council of Justice has done and, in fact, the reform of the judiciary has been seriously questioned. Therefore, if in this article of the bill you also foresee this finality of the decision to resolve senior NBS officials, you can expect the Constitutional Court to take the view that you have violated the Constitution. However, I would add something very important, and that is the amendment tabled by the Committee on Finance, which changes that member to some extent, but only changes in that sense that it symbolically devastates the National Bank by simply stating that instead of listing the governors, vice governors and members of the council whose resolution is foreseen by this member, it simply states that it is the officials. If the NBS is at risk of de facto being introduced by a two-state body, and a two-authority has been introduced by providing for the existence of that supervisory authority, because that 10-function NBS supervisory authority is given four very significant functions. If we, besides the governors, have another person who is also elected, that function is also electoral in Parliament, but members of that administrative oversight are not. They are also not electoral, such as election vice governors and council members, council presidents, etc. We don't know who will be the director of that administration, we don't know which of those members will be part of such a serious organ, a body within the NBS. I expected a much more rational decision from the Finance Committee, a much more rational amendment. If nothing else, at least take care of the dignity of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1022	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, as a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that when the National Bank Act was written, there was little work at the Resav school. It is prescribed the Statute of the European Central Bank and by not accepting, i.e. criticising this part of the amendments and supplementing the law that you do nothing but devastate the National Assembly. No court, except for the Constitutional Court, can appreciate the decisions made by the National Assembly. There's no such thing as a mechanism. If you look at a slightly more careful way of functioning of the European Central Bank, you will see that it is a national organisation composed of several EU member states, which have a monetary union. Among these members, the EU has one body called the European Parliament. In the European Parliament, as well as here, MPs, but they do not join at national level, but by political membership, so you have conservatives, and parties of green and folk, you have even MPs who are against the EU and the European Parliament. That's how he works. Now imagine that the largest capital in the European Central Bank has Germany and France, that the parties in power in the European Parliament and in the opposition in national parliaments are replaced by the governor of the European Central Bank. That's why this protection mechanism was established. It's about a supranational bank. This is about the national bank. It's just illusory, maybe someone will attack that part of the story, so the Constitutional Court can take this down because it's not in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act or any other procedure. I can also tell you that the Constitutional Court of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not authorized to comply with what law is contrary to each other, the Constitutional Court is harmonising the laws with the Constitution, and to put an end to that. No, simple devastation of the National Assembly, if the court decides, changes, alters the decisions of the National Assembly. It loses all meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1024	Thank you. Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1025	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for your opportunity, two more minutes for this parliamentary group. I'd just like to add one particular thing. Serbian citizens who are following this discussion are above all interested in whether their life and existence is seriously threatened by the adoption of this law, which means – is inflation possible again? Serbian citizens survived 1993 and that terrible inflation that year, and I think that fear is largely justified. When you question the functioning of the NBS in this way, which drastically changes its status from one position to an independent state body, then you normally have a direct impact on both the work and the NBS and all those functions that this NBS performs, and please, you can read about what functions it is in Article 4. The National Bank Act. Citizens are also interested in whether this law will put their payment power at risk, and as far as daily living expenditure is concerned and as regards the repayment of credits that many citizens have been forced to take. It is very important that you repay the credit in a stable financial and monetary system or credit in such an unstable system that we live in, and this law only contributes to this instability and to this great danger to daily life and to the existence of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1026	Thank you. Mr. Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1027	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, it's about one important thing here, and I think in a good way, it gives us a picture of the essence of the problem we have with this bill, it's a question -- is this law going to go as proposed, the NBS officials will have the possibility of judicial protection in case of resolution or not? The officials are governors, vice governors, council members. So far, they have been able to address the court when they've been resolved from this moment on, or from the moment the law enters into force, if adopted here, they will no longer have that possibility. I'm saying this for the next thing. It is one of the standards of European or whatever, because there is a concrete document, and it is called the Convergence Report, which was created by the European Central Bank, and this report explicitly found that each Central Bank official must be provided with adequate judicial protection in case of resolution. So if such a solution is adopted, Serbia will deviate from the standards that exist in the EU for this area. I'll remind you, dear colleagues, of the exposés presented here by Prime Minister Dacic. I didn't vote for those exposures, but the parliamentary majority did. In this exposé, one of the most important things is – the continuation of Serbia's right to comply with EU law, as a fundamental factor, so that we become a member of the EU as soon as possible. What does this matter? I think the two statements made by diplomats here in Belgrade each in their own way and from completely different angles speak of what kind of problem we have. "Political pressure on the governor of the NBS, which seeks his resignation and proposed amendments to the NBS Act, which weaken the autonomy of the governor, poses a defeat of the rule of law and raises serious questions about the respect of independent institutions and regulatory bodies in Serbia. "This is what the American ambassador said today. This parliament will pass laws as it believes and what is the majority, I have no objection there, but my question to the promoters is – is it sufficient to take into account the importance and severity of such a statement to potential investors who are considering whether they will invest their money in Serbia, which is, of course, a way for Serbian citizens to have the opportunity to get jobs and get to new jobs? It's not just about American investors, it's about the importance of assessing the state of affairs in a country that is the government's most powerful political representative or one of the most powerful states in the world. So this is very disturbing. Now we have another thing that's formal and it's important that we get an answer to that question. Mr. President, I don't know if the government has made a statement about this law at all. No, which is a special problem. So we have one of the essential laws that the government didn't want to make, because it had two or three days to take such a single step. Now something that's part of our legal system. The deputy, or deputy head of the EU delegation to Serbia, Adriana Martins, says: "The European Commission has not been informed of the draft new law. The adoption of these amendments would be a significant step backwards in harmonising Serbian legislation with the EU." Adrian, it's not Adrian. Lapsus, but that lapus is much less important than what matters. The government of the Republic of Serbia has an Association Office. The Office for Association is part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and no law, nor any other general act, regulation and legal acts of the lower power adopted by the Government shall be adopted before the EU Association Office gives its consent to the law or does not give its opinion. Of course, the Office is tasked with assessing whether an individual regulation is in accordance with EU law or not in accordance with EU law. That is why it is very bad that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not given its position and has not declared itself to this legislative proposal. As we can see, EU diplomatic representatives have not had the opportunity to have insight into this law formally. They are likely to observe this debate and have somehow received the text, but they certainly have a negative view of it, which is also against the fundamental views that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic expressed here when he and the entire government of the Republic of Serbia presented his exposés, on the basis of which he received support. I think it is important that we keep all these facts in mind, because, again, if you want, you will pass the law, here there are more than 126 MPs who can make the legislative proposal, but we will remember very quickly, I suppose, this day all together, when we face the consequences of such a difficult assessment, some of them, which, on their part, have an exceptional meaning, that for the picture that exists about Serbia, and that picture is important to us, it is important for us to have talks with the IMF very quickly, they will be held by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As the IMF Director in charge of Serbia said the other day here, or the World Bank, it is up to the IMF to discuss whether we will receive the World Bank's loan or not. It's important that we put all these facts on the table together and when there's a short vote here that we have awareness of the potential serious and major consequences that this decision can produce.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1028	The word is Mr. Arsic, as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the EU's Office has not even given consent to judicial reform, so you see what the consequences are now, and as far as I know, the judiciary is a special branch of power. While you're making a statement, I'm surprised you know the contents of the announcement, and you don't know that Adriano Martins is a gentleman, not a lady, as you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1030	Ladies and gentlemen, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the RIK on the assignment of seats to the MPs in order to complete the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Niko Jovanovic, elected from the election list URS – Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of MPs of the peoples, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Snezana Stojanovic Plassic and Niko Jovanovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. Also, I would also like to ask MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic, whose term of office was confirmed on 2 August 2012, to join for the sake of the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. I'm setting a break until 3:00. Thank you. [[After a break.]] I'm informing the National Assembly that we'll be working after 18 hours. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 16. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is it a proposalor's representative or someone else who wants a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Mikovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1032	On Article 18 of my fellow Members of the Democratic Party, they submitted an amendment proposing that Article 18 be deleted. Because the proposed change in the definition of banning the purchase of securities from value introduces a great danger of introducing a new channel of monetary financing, i.e. printing money. It is good and we are pleased that we have just taken our stand, and since we received the bill, the same day the MPs of the Democratic Party have stood up against this proposed article 18. It is good that many MPs, both opposition and positions, and I hope, that at least in this part, on Article 18, we will be able to make this law, which is proposed within an extremely short period of time and which is proposed in a way that has not been provided in a timely manner neither with a declaration by the National Bank of Serbia nor by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however, to try to fix as much as possible. There is still the possibility that the proposer will withdraw this bill and enter into, if necessary, the resolution of this issue by some other bill whose vote would precede a broad public debate and the possibility of participating all those involved in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1033	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1034	We fully support the amendments to Article 18, but I think if I followed correctly... Mr. President, do we now discuss article 17 or Article 18? I think he's a member of the 17. (President: Amendment to Article 17.) That's right. So, we'll only talk about Article 18 when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1035	The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Donka Banovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Weasel.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1036	My colleagues have proposed an amendment and will explain the details later. The wish of our MP club was to point out the many illogicalities that exist about the funding of the National Bank, about the non-transparency related to the income, i.e. the expenditure side of the National Bank and, in our deep conviction, the totally inappropriate amount of income that the members of the National Bank Council and the governor of the National Bank have. At no time do we dispute that the function of governor of the National Bank is extremely important, that the function of the Vice Governor is extremely important, but it is unacceptable for us that the governor has five or six times the salary of the President of the Republic or the President of the National Assembly. If we accept that resolution, and we've heard many arguments from the National Bank, that they're doing a very important job, we don't argue, but if we accept such an explanation, then we'd have to accept that we're doing a very irrelevant job and that the president of the National Assembly is doing a pretty irrelevant job. I think we need to find a much better explanation than that. If it is according to the ruling majority's announcements, which says that in a completely different way, the question of receiving will be regulated, we support it. As early as two or three years ago, I proposed a law on the reception of all officials elected by the National Assembly and under that law, and I hope that this assembly will see the light of day and will be discussed, it is suggested that no official elected by the National Assembly can have a higher salary than the president of the National Assembly. I think it's in line with the principle of responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1037	Thank you. Mr. Lapcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1038	In line with what Mr Obradovic said, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment to this member, which stipulates that the functioner of the National Bank, governor, vice governors who will be suspended before the deadline, or when resolved, will not be paid in the next six months at 80% of the salary he received in the last month, but that it will be cut 50%. The motive for such a thing is really obvious, given that the whole state is in trouble, that our financial situation, both in the wake, is so even the social opportunity in the country is very bad. It would be extremely irresponsible, not to say immorally that even the resolved officials of the National Bank receive such high wages. I'll remind the public, she's probably familiar with this data, a wider citizen perhaps not, that the salaries of governors and vice governors of the NBS are really too high, immorally high in relation to the situation in which the state is. Media reports show that the salary of the governor of the National Bank was 507,000 when he took office, that through several increases it reached a figure of 670,000 dinars per month. It's really more than a dirty sum, and the vice governor's salary of four at this point is almost 600,000 dinars a month. On this basis, the state of Serbia should allocate more than three million dinars per month to their salaries when governors and vice governors cease to function. In six months, as far as they have the right under the law to receive if that 80 percent provision remains, the vice governors will earn nearly three million dinars and the governor more than 3.2 million dinars. For the current opportunities in the country, it's too much money. The explanation of why the governor and the vice governors have such high wages is that they are bound by law and that their salaries are tied to the average salary of the National Bank. Likely, the governor, as the leading official in the National Bank, allowed the average salary of the National Bank to be 108 thousand dinars, and therefore the governor and vice-saver of the governor to pay five times the average salary, which is indeed more than rude compared to the average salary that the citizens of Serbia have, and it moves barely around 40,000 dinars. Today, in the debate, we heard representatives of the proposings who explain such an urgent change of the National Bank Act, with the motive to introduce the largest control role of the National Assembly and this institution, which the DSS has no objection in principle that the National Assembly, where MPs have been defined in the elections, have a greater control function over all bodies and over the NBS. However, this motive is not the primary motive since Article 29 of the Law says that after these amendments to the law will come into force, the election of new leadership in the National Bank will take place. So it was going to be a small door to change management. On the other hand, representatives of the former regime are calling for frequent statements by representatives of international financial institutions and individual ambassadors, that this will undermine the independence of the NBS and that they are concerned about how the NBS will function and how this will affect the country's general situation, financial security, and also the standard of citizens, whether the euro will jump or not, whether there will be greater inflation etc. They forgot that during the current governor, only in the last six months the dinar has depressed 20%. In no way have they looked back for these six months to say that they will protect citizens who have loans indexed in foreign currency and what measures the government and the NBS and the current governor will take to protect the standard of citizens, so that they can repay those loans. So both of them are dishonest in these stories, and we are absolutely clear when we hear frequent criticism from international financial institutions and EU representatives that something is not good, then we are sure that it is really not good, but for them. If it'll be good for us, we'll see, that'll show time. We disagree with the need to introduce a duality in the management of the NBS. We can understand that there is a body called the Supervisory Authority, but we cannot understand that this body is a panda to the governor and that it has powers that are approximate to the director of that administration having powers that are approximate to the powers of the governor. This is not acceptable to us, and I think that in this sense these provisions should be amended in a change. In any case, we will see on Monday, when the appointment of a new governor comes on the agenda, whether the debate on the work of the NBS administration so far will be opened, to shed light on the facts of what happened to Agrobank, the Vojvodina Development Bank, how there have been so many dubiosiss, and who will respond to what the state has had to intervene with more than 100m euros to save the banks. It is obvious that someone who is unconscious in his work, I assume the governor and his assistants, has allowed such a minus, which will eventually be covered by the Republic of Serbia's budget, and it is filled with citizens' taxes. So everything will break on the back of citizens, as they break and pay so high. Someone's got to take some kind of responsibility in the end. I believe that when this debate is opened, it will come to the agenda and that finally the public of Serbia will not only get the right information, but someone will have to because of it and that it will respond to what that kind of money is going to be for citizens to cover someone's unconscious work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1039	Thank you. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Vesna Kovač, MP Ivan Jovanovic, joint MPs Mirko Cvetković, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Sojić submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Dusan Petrovic. Before I give you my word, Mr. Petrovic, I would like to announce that the remaining time for your parliamentary group is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1040	This must be one of the most important provisions. That's what we talked about earlier. It is good that the Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Mr. Cvetkovic had one very important and good exposure yesterday and it is good when the former Prime Minister from his point of view sheds light on such an important thing. Once again, it was that foreign exchange reserves could be used on the secondary market, which would say that, including the savings stakes of citizens, that money could be used by the NBS management decisions to buy different securities of value, to finance not only budgets, but also some other things. We've all managed to put aside a solution like this. Without a general consensus on how this money should be used would be really unsustainable. I'm sure we've prevented a great deal of disturbance from the citizens, because, who knows what would have happened if such a provision had been adopted and what would have happened on Monday or Tuesday, when this was published in the Official Messenger, in the banks, but it's good. I think this is one big victory of reason. We do not see this as victory or defeat, but it is good that this Parliament has the strength to come out of risky solutions that can produce very serious consequences. As far as foreign reactions are concerned, it is important to know that all this affects the cost of the loan. If international organisations and the IMF and the World Bank and all others who deal with finance come to the conclusion that the country is not in good shape, then our credit rating will be lower than it is now. This affects the increase in the cost of insurance of money coming from abroad to Serbia. These interest rates, which are now 23, 24 and 25% in the dinars, make them even bigger, which are 11.12 or 15% in the euro. We are all interested in having one stable system, that others have a good opinion on our financial system. It is not our concern whether or not someone will like us, but how all Serbian citizens will live. So one big and good thing is that money printing and the primary show are disabled. I think we all made one big win together.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1041	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I thought there was no debate on this amendment, given that the motionor, the committee responsible and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives adopted the amendment, and that in that sense it became an integral part of the bill, but if I was wrong, although I still think I should, I would just say for a moment. Of course, we too supported this amendment for primarily psychological reasons, so as not to cause public panic about someone but pre-planned abuse. What confuses me when it comes to this member is the NBS opinion. The National Bank of Serbia, in its opinion, which specifically referred to six members of the proposed law, three of which were accepted objections, when it comes to Article 18 of this Law, the NBS opinion confuses me precisely for these reasons, which is why I said that we have encouraged this amendment, for psychological reasons. Here's what the NBS says. Article 18 is amended as follows: The NBS Act, by determining what is not directly regarded as buying paper from the values issued by the entities referred to in Article 1(1). You can't see the practical effects of this precision. So don't question it. What I insist on is the next sentence. According to the NBS, since even so far on the secondary market, charters of the value of those entities could be obtained. So, the NBS in its opinion says – this is a meaningless change, because so far they have been able to buy charters on the secondary market. The National Bank says that, not us. I'll get back to the beginning, we'll back up, we've backed this amendment for a reason to send a message to the public that there's no reason to worry that someone out there is going to play with foreign reserves, that they're going to print money, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1043	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our proposal was not aimed at spending foreign reserves on buying state securities of value. It was not only the Committee on Finance that accepted the amendment, but also the representative of the proposings, and it became an integral part of the law, as my colleague said for a little while. Foreign exchange reserves, it's true, are for the country's credit rating. Not only foreign reserves, but also funds deposited by Serbian citizens with banks, business banks on savings, etc. However, I can say that, not by the guilt of the motionor or this law, our credit has been brought into serious question. I remember very well, I think it was November or December, when it was given agreement on one 700m-euro loan. It was then a billion dollars, I think it was right in dollars, now it's probably more, because the euro fell from the dollar and that loan was called – a precautionary loan. That loan was spent. We as MPs back then, and even now, we didn't know about the purpose of this loan -- whether it was for covering the budget deficit, whether it was for other government projects, whether it was for funding the election campaign. And any credit that the government raises and increases the country's credit debt affects the country's credit rating. We got that loan at an interest rate, it seems to me, of 7.7% on an annual basis, and then it was a thank you for one very good loan, and EU citizens can raise such loans themselves. In Italy and Spain, considered over-indebted countries, if the growth rate exceeds 6% annually, they enter the red zone to seek assistance from the European Central Bank for further borrowing. All your wishes, I think, are the proposings of all these amendments, and even from the current regime, and, as you like to say, the MPs of the former regime, were in one good direction and with one good wish. We have accepted this amendment. We don't want to cause any doubt in our citizens that foreign reserves will be spent covering the budget deficit. We don't want to give anyone reason to say that, because of the adoption of this law, there will be hyperinflation and printing of money. It is known under which rules, under what conditions and how such moments occur. So, if gross income increases, foreign reserves increase to ensure financial stability. It is not just financial stability, in the sense that the euro is no longer growing. Stability is monetary when the euro does not fall and does not grow. And these are perfectly normal economic rules that are used. That's why we accepted this amendment. We don't want to cause any doubt in our citizens, and at least, since it seems to me, it was a desire to cause panic and panic, that citizens are afraid - what if this law is passed. We have an example from the past that the citizens of panic rules - what if Boris Tadic is not elected president, what if this party is not in power and what if someone else is elected president and another government comes. Authorities are leaving and coming and having an obligation to the citizens, not themselves. I believe that any party that thinks so and who comes into a position to be in power will earn trust in the next election. Those who got the chance, I'm sorry, but they didn't take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1045	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1046	As I said before, we support the acceptance of this amendment and support the removal of any suspicion that foreign reserves will be issued or that the National Bank will print money. But it's also important to pay attention, all those who deal with finance know that there are many ways to put money without cover in circulation. We'll take care of that here. I would also like to point out to all MPs, especially the ruling majority MPs, that we expect this to be just the first step. Two years ago, it seems to me, while the finance minister was Diana Dragutinovic in amendments to the Budgetary System Act, the government has the same mechanism, and then we discussed for a long time when the law was amended and the member -- why the government would allow the same thing. I think it would be good if one of the following laws were to be amended by the Law on the Budgetary System, where, as we did not allow the National Bank to do, and when we reached a consensus that the National Bank could not do so, that mechanism would be taken away from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or directly by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1047	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic and joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović. The representatives of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Milovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1048	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Unfortunately, I didn't get a reason why you refused this amendment. What's the matter with me here? It is also an exaggerating and confusing provision in the amended Article 63(1). The law, which stipulates the NBS to issue and withdraw work permits and to oversee financial institutions through the Supervisory Authority, suggests that this administration has legal entity separate from the NBS. The question arises – how does the governor manage the work of the NBS, if he is unable to influence the operations of the Supervisory Authority, nor is the director of that administration responsible to the governor for his work? I believe this can create serious problems in the exercise of the control and function of the NBS, as well as in the management of the institution. I will not vote for these amendments to the law for a reason, not to repeat what is said and what the representatives of international institutions have said, but what is worrying about me in this law are the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. On page 11, it is proposed to adopt this law by an emergency procedure, given the circumstances that could not be predicted, and its non-administering would prevent the National Bank from working uninterruptedly, which could result in adverse consequences, there is no analysis of the effects of this law. I will only remind the MPs that the first bank in the Kingdom of Serbia was founded on 2 July 1884 and that the name of that bank was – the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia, by the reputation of the most prominent Belgian bank. I think for those independent institutions we've been fighting for all these years, we have to keep going. What I fear is that future political parties will interfere in the work of the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency and other institutions voted for by this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1049	The 21st Amendment together includes MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Veselinovic. The representatives of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional and Law Affairs considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional and Law Affairs considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1050	Thank you. I didn't know this amendment was accepted. We don't have a report and we don't have an explanation. Of course, I am pleased that the right of the Board of Governors, if that is true, to choose an external auditor, because I believe that if this right of control, or the election of an external auditor, would be left to, as otherwise proposed by these amendments to the law, the commission elected by the Assembly Committee on Finance, then everything else would be left in that people's office – cadija sues you, cadiya sues you. What surprises me a little bit, and maybe I'm not surprised, I might also understand why, as during the whole NBS debate, two attitudes are faced. One that stands for the opposition, today's opposition, and one that stands for the current ruling regime. The opposition warns of reducing the independence and independence of the NBS, and the ruling regime argues it is not true. The amendments to the National Bank Act take place two years after the adoption of the Law we voted for together from the DS and the G 17 Plus Party and the coalition gathered around the SPS, I mean the PUPS, JS. It would be a little amazing and boring to read the records from that debate. I remind you, this law was passed two years ago, but what I'm going to remind you of is that even then, I'm going to say briefly what the media quoted, MPs G 17 plus pointed out that the National Bank Act is a step forward in determining the independence and independence of the NBS and that its provisions guarantee that this institution will be fully independent and as most important etc. The same attitude was given to the SPS and claimed that it would vote, as it did, for this law, because it means that this law strengthens the NBS institution and its independence. I'm not surprised that the SNS, the legislator of this law, is talking like this today, because they stayed consistent. They also advocated, very clearly and very explicitly, that the National Bank be placed under greater control, not only the National Assembly, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our former coalition partners say something different, it's quite clear to me, because the dilemma of whether to be consistent or to be in power is easily resolved by the commitment to be in power. Once again, let me remind you of one thing, when I'm talking about consistency. What all parties and the ruling regime are somewhere, although declaratively, where they remain, is respect for the EU standards and fundamental values, this is the fourth law that we get for this short time how the new assembly's new assembly started working in which it wrote at the end of the legislative proposal a declaration of compliance with EU rules that there are no relevant regulations to harmonise the text of this bill, that this text is not translated into any official EU language. To question number seven. - was there any involvement of consultants in draft law? There's not even an answer, because it wasn't there. Since we have criticised the National Bank a lot and its work over the past few years, I would not explain much, but I would also remind the ruling regime, and also colleagues from the former regime, who are now in the new one, that in a report by the European Commission, on the basis of which Serbia received the EU candidate status, the commended work of the National Bank and that the report said that the authorities had used monetary policy, as an instrument for maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability, especially the timely response of the NBS after the break-up of the financial crisis was useful for rapidly restoring confidence in Serbia's banking system. They are similar for 2009, 2010 and 2011. Whether such assessments, not only about the National Bank, but first of all about the laws that this assembly has been considering for the last few days, will be in a new European Commission report, we will have the opportunity to see soon. Unfortunately, I'm not sure they'll be the way they were in this previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1051	I would only inform you, for the sake of the public, that all MPs and MPs received a report from the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives at the beginning of the debate, stating that your amendment has become an integral part of the law. The remaining time for the DS parliamentary group is one minute and eight seconds. The word is Mr. Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1052	Mr. President, I hope that we will correct this breach of the Rules of Procedure in our walk, because the President of the National Assembly is in accordance with article 19 on the work of the National Assembly and the application of the Rules of Procedure. We have now come to the situation that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on the amendment to Article 23, which was submitted in the same text by Mrs Gorica Mojovic and a group of LDP MPs, means, both ask for Article 23 to be deleted, decides to accept the amendment to Article 23, which was submitted by Mrs Mojovic, and proposes to reject the amendment to Article 23. - deleted, submitted by LDP MPs. In that sense, if it's the same text, it can't be decided differently, please correct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1053	Mr. Mikovic, I don't take this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the Committee is responsible for making a decision in the manner it considers necessary. By the way, I think there is a principled agreement of the motion to accept this amendment. The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised my colleague, from now on the former regime, speaks. Because I remember very well when my amendments or amendments to the SNS were rejected, and in the same text they accepted them, not once, but more times. That can't happen here. Here are both amendments from the representatives of the former regime. There was only one small technical error, and I, as a representative of the motion, accept the amendment, which was submitted by a group of MPs to Article 23. With the National Assembly having to make a special statement on it in the voting day, but as a representative of the motion, I accept the amendments submitted by the MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korac, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic to Article 23. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1055	I thank Mr. Arsic for his constructive approach to solving this problem. The word is Mr. Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1056	I am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and I was hoping that the proposal's representative would attend the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and when we discussed the law in principle, and when we discussed the law in particular, that is, all amendments, otherwise, he would point to that. I think it's incorrect that for something of the most well-meaning, I might point out here as well as a mistake, a failure, and say for yourself that it should be corrected, in any way transferred to me. I pointed to a few more illogicalities in the very text of the law. So, in relation to the text of the law and to what appeared, it means what was printed in the annexes. These contradictions are not corrected either. This is about the issue of performing a political function and the issue of actively performing a political function. That mistake was not corrected, no matter what was left in the material. The same is true of the conflicting question of entry into force of the draft law. I suggest that such mistakes should not be repeated. I'm sure it made it possible for everyone interested to get involved in a public debate, that they could be properly involved in the debate in principle, so that there would be no printing errors. That's what I've been pointing out to the board and everyone, with a desire to fix it on time, and I think it's incorrect for anyone to be called a regime, if this or that, former, future. We are MPs here with the aim of correcting every law, making it correct. Every law that comes out of here is a picture of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1057	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1058	I don't want to make a lot more of this. First of all, this is Parliament law. We don't, you know, have a whole cabinet behind us that's gonna write laws and line up texts, but MPs are sitting down, leaving side by side, member by side, row by line. On the other hand, I don't think you DS have the right to object. You have no right to do this. I've been experiencing amendments from you, that you reject them with a list, up to one, and then three or four months later, we have amendments and additions to that law where our amendments are. There's no coincidence. That was the intention. The absolute intention of showing the opposition as incompetent. We accepted the amendment. The mistake has been removed, and you know yourself as a lawyer what is read, bill, explanation or individual provisions. I've seen a lot of things in my career, that some colleagues have even written amendments for an explanation. Wrong man, so what? It's no big deal until it's published in the official messenger. That's the kind of rulebook you've made that's now a rock around your neck. You've done such things simply here in the National Assembly, that your reach in the development of democracy through one of these Rules of Procedures, and I've been in a task force working on this Rules of Procedure, and in the end, when I saw that it wasn't worth it, that it was choking and restricting the rights of the MPs, it came out of that commission. You know that well. Now that Rules of Procedure is a rock around your neck. Don't be afraid. We'll change it. We'll give the opposition, or the former regime a greater right here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1059	Replica, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1060	Mr. President, in front of you, the lawmaker's representative said that I have no right to speak and that I have no right to point out what I think. You didn't warn him at the time. (President: I realized it was in the spirit of discussion. A bit of a heated discussion, not in the sense that your right is really limited, because as you can see, of course, you have the right to speak. ) When we discussed the proposal for a law on ministries, Mr Vukic said I had no right to submit an amendment to Article 38. Now I'm re-experienced here to say that I have no right to speak, to point to an obvious mistake. (President: I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Mikovic to complete his presentation. ( ) Anyone who followed my work during the previous National Assembly and now within the framework of the Committee’s work, I think they could see for themselves all correctness and principledness in advocacy. You were present when I suggested the rejection of Mrs Gordana Komic's amendment, vice president of the National Assembly. Absolutely how principled we treat our obligations. (President: I ask once again all the MPs of the people to allow Mr. Mikovic to complete his presentation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) Am I going to insist on the exercise of the right of every MP to defend his opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that he has the right to defend his opinion, because regardless of whether or not we have an opinion, we must fight for the right of that insinuator, to express his opinion, even if he disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1061	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. You're a good lawyer, I appreciate your discussion, I just want to tell you that I didn't understand the presentation of any MP that they wanted to deny you the right to speak. As you've seen, they can't do that, and while I'm president of the National Assembly, all MPs will be able to speak. Don't worry about it. Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1062	Replication of consistency or inconsistency in the Assembly, my dear friend, Mrs Mojovic. She says that G17 plus for the previous law said it was a step forward compared to the previous one. I say, it's possible to take two steps forward. I'm not saying that about this law. Today I've been listening to discussion by DS representatives and trust me, an extraordinary discussion and a professor. Micunovic, Dusan Petrovic, who I fully agree with, that you do not believe, and believe me, I would vote against this law only if these discussions were consistent. If you had discussed it this way in 2003, in 2010, I would have supported you, however, you have just shown what it means to be inconsistencies. Mr. Micunovic mentioned today that even Milosevic allowed Governor Avramovic to defend his work here in front of Parliament, and I will remind you that the National Bank Act was passed in 2003, when Dinkic was cleaned from here as a broom. The government wrote, or Ministry of Finance, the bill was not in a position to defend itself or defend itself. Believe me, that's why I respect these discussions, I support them, but I really have to say that this is a real example of inconsistency. You know what the people say: "whoso the sword is cast down by the sword and die." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1063	Mr. Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1064	The occasion for the announcement is the replica of Mrs Mojovic's presentation. In its presentation, within which it was intended to look, as far as I know, at Article 23, or at the proposal for an amendment to Article 23 of the Law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. She mentioned some kind of consistency or inconsistency. In this context, among other things, she mentioned the SPS. I am really pleased that someone today has time to review the press from two years ago and look at what the media published when we discussed in the Republic Parliament on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia in June 2010, as far as I know. Believe me, I didn't get a chance to look at today's daily press, but when you mention June 2010 and the debate on the amendment law of the National Bank of Serbia, then look at, I suggest, the stenographic notes. Here you will best look at all the suggestions and suggestions that we have made for you and also during the debate we had a few days ago, or the day before, when we discussed in principle the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Then we made it very clear to you how we feel about the changes to the system laws at the time and that it was good to go to the adoption of the new text, to discuss the new law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Then we made it very clear again, and today we say that we are in favour, we support the independence and independence of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, because we think it is extremely important. We also do not see that this independence and independence is violated by this proposal that we are talking about today. On the contrary. The key thing here is, in fact, the point is that the supervisory and control function is being restored to the republican parliament, which is probably normal and logical. I guess it makes sense that decisions that are essential and vital to the citizens of Serbia are made here within the republican parliament through a democratic debate, through the face-to-face of opinions. What do you expect more from us? We told you in the opening statement. We thank Mr. Shoskovic. We expressed our gratitude, we had no doubt of his intention. We believed in his expertise and ability, but reality and results are something else. It is finally time to value results in Serbia. I wouldn't look back on those floscules -- the former regime, or how you define it -- in the SPS I see the present and the future, but that's the dose of political correctness and political tolerance that you show, that when we're with you, when we're part of the ruling coalition, then we're the best, and when we make a different decision, or when we decide to be part of another ruling coalition, then we're not. You know what, by making a decision that we want to share the values of this ruling coalition, we have made no decision against the DS or any other political option on the political scene of Serbia. We have made a decision in Serbia's interest and in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and we will make such decisions in the next period of time. To clarify something, there is no headquarters of any gathering within this ruling coalition. That's not a good way to function. There is one team that will work together to realise the declared objectives and principles of which the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling coalition in Serbia are gathered together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1065	Thank you. Mrs Mojovic, on what grounds? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1066	It seems it wasn't without the effect of mentioning consistency in both my fellow G17, i.e. the URS and SPS. I'd start at the end. I completely agree with my colleague Djord Milicevic's statement that there is no coalition headquarters, but he disagrees with himself somewhere, because in the previous presentation he kept saying, yes, the law was passed in 2010, but we told you then – it was true, there were different discussions, but we voted in common for this law. About who told whom then, I had a number of amendments, as well as my colleagues from the DS, to the laws our government had proposed, some were, some were not accepted, probably by the SPS and other parties of the then government. So it's not what anybody said to anyone at the time, it's what the problem is that we're together to define ourselves. That's one thing. The second thing, let's not question something that is extremely obvious, that the proposals for a new law on NBS, some of these proposals, are directly contrary to the law we passed in 2010. What consistency can be in there. Once we will vote in favour of a law that means step forward in building independent institutions, the second time we will move that independence, power and control of government towards these independent functions. I don't have any problem understanding that. I have a problem just to understand, I have never questioned that in the last term it was drawn up in one way, that now on another, that the new SNS coalition partner introduced some new concepts in conversion, the former regime, the current regime, etc., that they made it very clear to us that there was no insult in that, therefore, I had no intention of offending anyone either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1067	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 23rd amendment together. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, i.e. the representative of the motionor declared during the debate that he accepted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, that the amendment was in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mrs. Gerov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1068	Dear President, MPs, I would first of all like to thank the promoter for adopting this amendment, which has submitted to the LDP, as this improves the additions of the National Bank Act. I will, Mr. Arsic, to tell you that you were absolutely right when you said that the Constitutional Court did not decide whether the two laws were contrary to each other or not, but whether some law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. This does not mean that the legislator of any law should not be concerned when making any text of any new law or amending and supplementing any law, whether this new law is not in collegiate with some already existing law. Here it was about the Public Procurement Act. You've talked a lot about this law, and I expect we'll have this law on the agenda very soon. As an LDP, we still believe that the amendments and additions of the NBS Act bring down the independence of the National Bank and, of course, that in the day of the vote, i.e. If that happens today, we will not support these amendments and the additions of the law, because we believe that this allows the party's bank to one or more parties. What I'd like to ask you more, Mr. Arsic, is that you're a little while ago, I'm going to say very mildly, I think you've made a lapus and, if so, I'd like to ask you to apologize to us in the LDP, after you've called us a party of the former regime, and you'll accept our amendment. The LDP was not in the previous government and cannot possibly be a party to the former regime. I guess that was your lapus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1069	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanović, joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vesenović and together Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petkovic and Bojana Bozanic. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1070	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 26 and we can freely say that this is the most important amendment for us and the reason why our parliamentary group will not support the proposed amendments to the National Bank Act. We have been here for several days in the National Assembly discussing the amendments to this law and in the shadow of this debate is actually a debate that is expected on Monday, it is the choice of the new leadership of the National Bank. It is on this case that our parliamentary group, the difference in approach, how to solve the problems that exist in individual institutions, which relate to their poor work or quality work, however, and the institutions responsible for that assessment. We are now facing the situation that a new leadership of the National Bank will be elected on Monday, and we do not know why the new leadership of the National Bank is being chosen. We have a poor opinion on Mr. Šoškovic's work and we have made it clear during the debate. These days we have heard from other political states, but also from the media, the reasons why it is necessary for the current leadership of the National Bank to be changed. Political parties' stances were heard, media positions were heard, but this was not heard in the only institution to decide, as the current, former governor and council and vice-governments did. The fundamental question is whether, by law, whatever it is, we voted against a law that is now being amended, the work of individual institutions will be assessed in 2010 and therefore a decision on whether or not these managers were doing good or bad, or whether the changes in these institutions will change the laws. We're in this situation right now, and that's the difference he wants to point out to the DSS. We want to discuss the work of leadership here, that we give our judgment. We said it a long time ago. He did bad things. We want to make a decision to the National Assembly regarding this court. The situation now is that this is not being discussed, but is being resolved by the new leadership being elected on the basis of a change in the law. I would like to point out that, when there was a debate about the Government Act, it was a similar situation. We've ordered, we've submitted an amendment, to the situation that certain civil servants, persons in office, will be resolved, based on changes to the law. We have indicated that the current Law on civil servants implies a certain debate on the work or assessment or procedure on the work of certain civil servants through regular or extraordinary evaluation, and that according to that law, the work of individual officials may be reconsidered and the assessment given at the end of the line that they have not been satisfied and that, in accordance with the law applicable, they may be amended. Just as we have the case today, so individual civil servants and persons in office will be changed on the basis of changes to the law. As a party that has since the first term of our president, then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica has sought to initiate the process of department, the process at least in bureaucracy, as it is said, and in independent state institutions we have begun knowing that this is not an easy or quick procedure and that it will have its problems and that it may be misused or ignored. The example is the previous period, we talked about, when it was necessary to call a contest for persons in positions, so of 400 and some such persons the previous government had only called for some 150. During the law's entry into force, then the first government of Vojislav Kostunica was in office, a number of persons being appointed. So the previous government had access to ignoring or non-compliance with the law. Now we've come to a situation where it's resolved by the amendments to the law. We think that we need to reach a consensus in the National Assembly that we want to treat independent institutions and that we want to refer to the concept of departementisation. Today you had a chance to hear a statement from individual representatives of the majority, that the department was a topic in the campaign and that the story was over. Just look at today's media. We don't think that's a good approach. The state is being built long and gradual. It's not easy, we all make mistakes, but at least there was some consensus to access the construction of independent institutions and regular bodies. Here, we had an example the other day, a good example, that Sasa Jankovic was re-elected as protectors of citizens by general consensus in the National Assembly. (Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Not yet. ) All right, all political parties are supported in this debate, including the party leading the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So all the parties supported it. There was no need to think about amending the law, and then if a certain institution has no support, then it goes towards amending the law, instead of discussing it here in the National Assembly or in the procedure foreseen by the current laws. We need to talk about how we're going to build institutions. We need to talk about whether we're going to respect the laws that we've been up to now, and also the part that concerns the resolutions of individual officials, when we're not satisfied with their work, because we're all going to get back into the situation in four years to discuss this, because now we're making a precedent. We don't think that's good, that we should have let the mandates of these institutions last or we should have resolved them in the National Assembly by the laws that existed. The Democratic Party of Serbia will not support changes to this law. We believe that this is not a good approach, and we believe that this important issue should have been resolved differently, which, as my colleague Radojko Obradovic said, will obviously be dealt with for the next four years, to support whether we support independent institutions that were being built in the previous period. They're still weak. There are reasons to question perhaps this approach itself, but it is necessary to support them because, in the extreme line, when they were introduced, we all supported that they should exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1071	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1072	This is a key member, in fact the only true goal of the proposed law on amendments to the NBS Act, which is to replace complete management of the NBS. This, of course, endangers Serbia's path to the EU, collapses an independent institution, and in essence the key thing is that a decision has been made for the current governors, vice-governments and the rest of the National Bank to be replaced by party personnel of the ruling coalition. Even Article 26. is very unusual in legal normation, that one law gives a deadline until the previous leadership of an institution should leave, in this case an independent institution, or an independent institution, as should be the National Bank. Don't tell me this isn't true either. And before the current governor resigned, it was already planned to elect a new governor next week. So even those 90 days wouldn't be respected. As a representative of the Democratic Party and other MPs of the Democratic Party, we also call on other MPs to think twice before voting on this law, to have in mind the consequences he can bring and not support this law. Just one more remark. A fellow SPS said we said they were the best. We never said they were the best. We've been with them in power and we've been working with them correctly, but now it's a whole new context and we're going to criticise them when they pass such bad laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1073	The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1074	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group considers that Article 26. The bill contains at least two questions. The first question is the personality of the new governor, and the second question is the poor work of the former, now former governor. We will find out the name of the candidate for the new governor probably during the evening or tomorrow morning, we really do not want to enter, but we are sorry that we did not get a chance to discuss the work of Mr Soskovic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In July 2010, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia said exactly what it would look like and what the whole episode would end. Article 26, as envisaged, does not provide any answers to these questions. The only thing that is clear is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will again vote exclusively on biography on Monday. When the law doesn't change the way you do it, it just changes the way you choose, there's definitely something wrong. Will the new governor be another actor in the film "all the president's people", it is completely irrelevant for the Democratic Party of Serbia at the moment, but it is very important that the new governor has the strength and courage to say that the declared goals of the government, which we have heard here, and the goals of the National Bank of Serbia cannot be the same? We are sure that the citizens of Serbia will get a quick answer to questions about who is lying to you, who is telling you right, and I am sure that once again when we discuss this issue, we will be able to say that we were right when we spoke this way. Article 26, as envisaged, we believe that there must be no law. After Governor Shoskovic's resignation, I think he's lost every sense of being here. The National Assembly today, when it decides on it, will again have the opportunity to declare this amendment and delete this member. I do not want to believe that the institution of governors is as important to someone as the right enter, but I want the MPs to really be guided, not by who will be the person who will lead the National Bank of Serbia and vote for it, but in the interest of the work of an independent institution and, above all, the citizens of Serbia. Let's give every future governor the independence he's guaranteed and the Constitution, to give him the independence that the law provides, and let's pay every future governor as much as he deserves. My colleague Lapcevic spoke today of some really rudely high salaries they have received so far, but let's not buy his independence and independence. Until that changes, do not ask for support from the Democratic Party of Serbia. We will certainly vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1075	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1076	I would also like to thank you and say that it is very strange, but a reflection of the development of our democracy that we agree with our DSS colleagues, which was unimaginable until yesterday. However, in principle this member of the bill has absolutely lost all purpose. In a legal sense, he was neither Lex Specialis nor Lex Individualis but Lex vulgaris. Something like this has almost not been seen in our parliamentaryism or legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1077	Excuse me, Mr. Stefanovic. I'm asking the MPs just to let Mr. Stefanovic finish his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1078	Why? Because this provision has lost all meaning by the resignation of Governor Šoškovic on the one hand, on the other hand, as I said yesterday, it is pointless to edit one individual case by means of a general act. You are making a bill to install a regulation into the text of the law, and unfortunately not only did you stay here, unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, but you are saying in article 28, if the provisions of other laws, or regulations, are contrary to this law, the provisions of this law apply. This is just amazing. Something like this really, I know you have a lot of professional good people who could've figured this out a little bit. I know what you're trying to say, and I'm a lawyer myself, but believe me, this looks like who says this slander and lies differently. Please don't let such cartoons stand in the bill of law in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1079	Mr. Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1080	I would like to support particularly that principled part of the discussion that existed in the presentation of Mr Palalic, because, among other things, independent of the amendment itself, I wouldn't be so broad-minded that I immediately declare this law a national law because it is necessary to be careful, as the French words know that the problem is caused, you can only think Latin if we don't know the reliable details. This is a joke to relax the atmosphere a little bit and remind ourselves how important it is to stick to the principles of full law. I join here with all MPs and the president of the National Assembly in his subsequent intervention. Not only do all MPs have the right to represent a certain opinion. They have the right to change it. They have the right to be inconsistencies. Why not? What kind of society would you be forbidden to change in? In doing so, there is really no right to ban, and I do not believe that the MP, whose discussions I know eight years ago, literally brought him up as a warning, but metaphorically, I suppose. So the ban certainly does not apply just on the basis of which political parties someone speaks, especially in a situation where we are all aware that we have reached a level when and under the law certainly MPs speaking today from one parliamentary group tomorrow will not speak from that parliamentary group. It's not a reason, not even metaphorically, to approach it that way, but the principle is important because what we're talking about today is about the law, Mr. Palalic, to that part. This is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure's personal address but a matter of decency to look into the eyes of the one I address and whose part of the exposure I agree with. So, the principle of separation, I don't link him to the campaign. I have never participated in any campaign, and especially not in one, because as you know in the cabinets that I created once was one party person. By the way, he was a great gentleman. The same should be introduced as anything else we want to turn into a step-by-step standard, and certainly by all the parties they have accepted, whether they are presently a position or opposition, did not refer to parties from some ruling coalition proposing where no standard has been reached in public enterprises that they function on the basis that there is a shift, on the basis of whether a lossful enterprise or achieves profits. It was not about where the country's policy was simply reflected, among other things, through the behaviour of certain functions, but about the fact that not the directors of party membership were elected, as one said a few months ago, but that we had come to the porters, the referents and the auxiliary staff, and that required party membership. That's the first one. Secondly, what is essential is to fight and create institutions where it will be possible to build on the basis of the competition. That's what we all have to do together in the next period, and in the face of future results. I'm sorry, I've been out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1081	You're not, since you're entitled to a parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1082	So I guess that's what we all agree on. It is my request that we do so in the next period, even when there is a senior major compared to the problem you pointed out. It is - whether to discuss the functioning of one of the key institutions in the Assembly in the coming period. It will. And you know it. He'll argue when the report arrives at the end of the year. I have to remind myself of the experience, because I have twice received such a report and tried to gather MPs to discuss it. They wouldn't. I ask you all together that when the report arrives, it will cover both periods of whatever leadership it is, that we accept and discuss it. That's the first thing. Second, of course, all together to remind ourselves that even so far, the council has been chosen by the proposings being singled out by the ruling parties. However, I am, and I repeat this second time to the legislator of this law, I am not in favor of provisions that relax the governor's responsibility in the future. I understand the desire of a well-intentioned to introduce an additional function, but in such institutions, as well as in the case of the Ombudsman, as many officials as there are ombudsmans, it is he who is responsible. No matter how many employees, no matter how many bodies the additional governor is responsible. I certainly advocate in this way that even when the law is passed and later when we discuss the report, that we stick to it because it is only possible to see personal responsibility and that in this way and the principle of separation, which does not mean that you are not a member of any party, or that it is a sin, we end it. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1083	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1084	I would agree with the assessment that this proposed member of the law represents the very essence of the government's political and economic intention. The point is that the new government wants a politician, not a man of profession at the head of the NBS. The point is that it is likely that, as things stand, the benefits of this will be a small privileged group of people and the damage of most Serbian citizens. The profession, investors, Brussels, warns that this is a dangerous game of roulette with the Serbian economy. It is good that the amendment to Article 18 has been accepted It's a bill of law. In the campaign, the party that forms the backbone of the current government said that Serbia needs changes, which we fully agree on, but changes can be positive and negative. This is obviously a negative change, and the previous changes we've had, we've seen that they're in that spirit. Why is there still a positive shift, which is a vote for the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic? Well, in my opinion, the answer is simple: Sasa Jankovic has no money, no power of that kind, and therefore I think it was really relevant that the governor who, by playing the case at a meeting of businessmen and financial experts in Kopalnik had the only protection from Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, who would be the next governor when he was exposed to criticism from ministers from the previous government. I think that everyone in the discussions who looked at this law from black or white were irresponsible and irresponsible because the governor did a lot of good, because the previous law was a big step ahead of all previous solutions, and we are now, unfortunately, going back a few steps back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1085	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Milenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 26th amendment. The President of the Proposer and the Finance Committee The Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1086	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member has shown the essence of our debate in this House on this law the second day. The speed to install a new governor, therefore, to change the leadership of the National Bank of Serbia, somehow led to the motion to lose sight of some other provision of the same bill. It is, for example, lost in the light of the fact that Article 6 of this Bill provides that the NBS has a statute, which is confirmed by the National Assembly. And now what if a new governor is elected, a new vice governors are elected, the same will work under the new statute? It's just not natural. It is perfectly normal to first create a legal framework and then, after that legal framework, to approach everything that will actually precede that statute, which represents a single paper on the functioning of the National Bank. If this article is added to the solutions set out in Articles 28 and 29, then we see the need for this story to end as soon as possible about the new governor. We of the LDP wanted to help and for this reason in our amendment and we suggest that this order be changed a little bit and that the statute actually precedes the election of the governor of the National Bank. It's rational, it's legal and it's actually by the Constitution the most complete. Clearly, however, there is no real will for this congregation majority. We have heard a lot today about this National Bank of Serbia, what awaits it in the future when this law comes into force. We are aware of the bad consequences. Many MPs pointed to these facts. Unfortunately, with some small excuses, we did not find the right response and our arguments were not accepted. I would really like to underline one fact, that even independent state bodies dealing with the protection of citizens' rights, such as the Commissioner for Equality or the Frankfurt Agency or the Anti-Corruption Agency, have passed one right of their own through changes to the Rules of Procedure that was made during the course of last year. According to the Rules of Procedure, their report no longer comes to the plenary session, but the report arrives with the committee of directors. The committee in charge discusses the reports of these independent national regulatory bodies and only when a conclusion is reached by the competent committee is actually sent to the plenary session and the plenary session does not have the right to decide on the reports of these independent national regulatory bodies, but rather discuss these conclusions that have been made on the basis of the report of these state bodies. So when we put in context with the National Bank of Serbia all of these independent state, regulatory bodies, then we can conclude that somehow this government is not interested in controlling the work of these state bodies by realizing where the power is. Power is in the NBS, where there's money. That is why it is in such a hurry, as soon as possible, regardless of the extent to which it is actually affecting the sound logic of Serbian citizens, and in the end these MPs who have noticed what is really the lack of this bill. One more thing to mention, yes, Mr Dinkic was replaced in 2003, but was removed for only one reason, which became a party official. So, and then there was this assumption that the NBS couldn't be a party official and, well, after so many years, we're facing that kind of danger again that the party is taking over the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1087	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1088	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously the main objective of the bill has been achieved – the governor has resigned. In spite of the proposed amendment to Article 26, I have proposed that the adverse consequences of this bill be reduced, by the fact that the Vice-Governors, the members of the Council who have served until the day of entry into force of this law, continue to perform their duties until the end of their term of office, and that the director be entitled to be elected for supervision within 90 days, I think that we should still use a better option, not to adopt this amendment which I think is good, but to make another better move, to save the independence and independence of the NBS. It's all in Serbia's interest. There is still a possibility, based on Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw the draft law from the procedure. The deadline is until the final hearing of the draft law at the National Assembly session. This will not only prevent the adoption of a constitutional provision in Article 28, that is what Mr Stefanovic quoted, if the provisions of other laws or regulations are contrary to this law, the provisions of this law are applied, but we will avoid the creation of long-term, harmful consequences for Serbia. That is why I appeal once again, the goal you have achieved, the governor has resigned, there are all conditions to choose a new governor. Let's not do any damage. On the basis of article 159, you still have the opportunity to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1089	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all sitting agenda points, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, 4 August 2012, starting at 16.45 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 130 MPs voted against, 38 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, two MPs did not vote out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I will remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment: the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on members 7 and 16, as well as the MPs Vesna Kovaca, Ivan Jovanovic, Mirko Cvetkovic, Theodore Vlahović, Natasa Vučković, Janka Veseinović, Nenada Canka, Olena Papuga and Djorđa Stojsic, member of 18, MP Zivojin Stankovic, member of 22nd and National MP Gorica Mojović, member of 23rd. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Radaković and joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vesenović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 21 MPs voted for it, against 86 MPs, with no abstention, were not voted by 63 MPs out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vesenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I declare: 22 MPs voted against, 78 MPs, no abstentions, no 70 MPs voted out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic and joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vesenović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I declare: 22 MPs voted in favour, 80 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, 68 MPs voted out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Veseinović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 21 MPs voted for it, 33 MPs, two abstentions, did not vote 114 MPs out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 22 MPs voted against, 10 MPs who were abstentioned were not voted by 138 MPs out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Mirko Cikiriz, joint MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petkovic and Bojana Bozanić, and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for 33 MPs, no one was against, one MP was abstention, 136 MPs were not voted by a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 21 MPs voted against, there were no, no abstentions, 149 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 7th amendment. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 22 MPs voted against, there were no, there were no abstentions, 148 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 8th amendment together. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 23 MPs voted against, one against, no abstentions, 146 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 21 MPs voted against, there were no, no abstentions, 149 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 18 MPs voted against, there were no, no abstentions, no 152 MPs, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted the 8th amendment. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 21 MPs voted against, there were no, no abstentions, 149 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vučković and Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 22 MPs voted against, there were no, there were no abstentions, 148 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Veseinović, joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Paputa and Djordje Stojsic and joint MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Popović and Aleksandar Pejčić. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 33 MPs voted against, there were no, there were no abstentions, 137 MPs did not vote, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 18 MPs voted against, there were no, there were no abstentions, no 152 MPs voted, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 23 MPs voted against, there were no, there were no abstentions, 148 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 20 MPs voted in favour, one against, no abstentions, 150 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 23 MPs voted against, there were no, there were no abstentions, 148 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The president and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 21 MPs voted against, there were no, no abstentions, 150 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic and joint MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 24 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, no abstentions, 147 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 21 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, no abstentions, 150 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Donka Banovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 25 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, no abstentions, 146 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic and joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 23 MPs voted for, no one was against, no abstentions, 148 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Janko Vjevinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 23 MPs voted for, no one was against, no abstentions, 148 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 23rd amendment together. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 154 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, no abstentions, no 17 MPs voted out of 171. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanović, joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković, Janko Vesenović and together Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petkovic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm asking the MPs for some attention. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 37 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, there were no abstentions, 134 MPs voted, out of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savic, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 26th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 26 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, no abstentions, 145 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 24 MPs voted in favour, no one was against, no abstentions, 147 MPs did not vote, of a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 29th. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, justification for the reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: 130 MPs voted in favour, against 27 MPs, not 14 MPs, out of 171. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 131 MPs voted against, 39 against, no abstentions, not one MP, out of 171. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. We move on to the second item of the agenda – THE CITIZER'S CHOICE As the National Assembly conducted a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 14) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 4. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Citizens' Protector chooses most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the choice of citizens' protectors. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 167 MPs, against no one, with one abstention, voted two MPs out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a choice of Citizens' Protectors by majority of the votes of all MPs since the National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision and thus elected Mr Saša Jankovic as the Protector of Citizens, let me congratulate him on his choice and wish him success in future work. Dear People's MPs, I remind you it's Article 7. The Law on the Protector of Citizens has been established that the Protector of Citizens takes an oath before the National Assembly before taking office. I ask Mr. Sasu Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens, to approach for the sake of taking an oath. (The President reads, and the Citizens' Protector repeats the text of the oath set out in Article 7. The Civil Protection Act. "I swear to do my duty responsibly, unbiasedly and independently, in accordance with the constitution and the law and that I will work consciously to protect and promote human rights and freedom. "I ask Mr. Sasu Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens, to sign the text of the oath. Let me once again, in your name and mine, wish him all the happiness in his future work. Here you go. On this occasion, I would ask Mr. Jankovic to address the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1091	Dear President, members of the National Assembly Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which you have today chosen the Protector of the Citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a huge encouragement for citizens, that their complaints and problems arising from the self-will in the work of the authorities, officials and solving these problems will indeed become a matter of first-class national interest, a point in which the objectives of all political parties in Serbia are collected. The pride I feel that you have recognized the effort and honesty with which, along with my associates, I have done my job, is not the same as self-satisfaction. For complacency today, there is no room in any state authority, no public service. Citizens and administrations are often in conflict, unfair conflict, and the shadow of poor work some of us are falling for everything. The difficulties of Serbia's citizens who are inescapably imposing today have been increased because our public administration is not well-organised and organised, not unsatisfactory. There is corruption in it and there is no measure for quality and quantity in work. It is too often that the administration, instead of having citizens come to their rights equally and legally through it, carry out their obligations, a distraction that needs to be overcome in order to achieve some right. It is particularly unfair when someone, in addition to problems that affect everything, suffers further because of some personal quality, belonging to a vulnerable or minority group, and this happens more often than we are willing to admit, let alone correct. Citizens and administrations do not have to be enemies in Serbia either. There are also skills and skills in Serbia to be better, but they have been pushed deeply down for years. Among public officials, there must be a sense of self - responsibility and responsibilities, genuine personal faith in the importance of the rule of law and the inviolability of human dignity. It must also be seen that good public work is being done and that bad work is being lost on the salary of taxpayers. This must apply to everyone in the public sector, starting with us, state officials. When the public administration ceases to be a tool for social policy where as many people are employed, they pay as little as possible and do not ask for the result. When the heads of state administration cease to be party prey, but a result of professional merits, conditions will be created for the end of the war that is now lurking between our citizens and our administration. In the laws that you are making, in a series of judgments already passed from views and domestic and international court practices, in the advice and assistance of friends from the EU and other parts of the world, who have already passed this way, in the outcome of tens of thousands of control procedures conducted by the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data and other independent state control bodies, in the reports and analyses of organisations of our highly competent, civil sector, are all guidelines and rules that we need. To get ahead of them, it must cease to be an unwritten rule that political will is needed for law enforcement in Serbia and that political will is the strongest law in Serbia. In a country in which the Constitution is registered to be based on the rule of law, it must not be. I, as the highest legislative authority in this country, but at the same time as the political forum, ask you to be a partner to the Citizens' Protector in demonizing such a wrong and devastating understanding of politics. Ours, not even my goal, can be a good protecter of citizens and bad bodies of public administration. The goal is neither to keep an eye on each of the public officials in the state for one official controller, and above their shoulders for another independent controller. Our goal should be to ensure that the rights of citizens are legally, quickly, in full scope, effectively achieved on the first step, in front of a competent, responsible and motivated public government official in a well-organised, small number of exceptions, which necessarily must exist, there is an efficient, authoritative, but compact control mechanism. You are the third assembly of the National Assembly and the third government with which I will cooperate. I hope just that, cooperation in the interest of achieving and improving citizens' rights. I am obliged to use the independence guaranteed by the Constitution and the Protector of the Citizens in such a way that when I assess, and not you or anyone else, I also need to present constructive criticisms, even if I oppose what I believe will lead to or will lead to violations or constraint of the freedoms and rights of citizens, even when you are actors of that, the MPs who have chosen me. Make sure I do it in our mutual interest. In the end, let me remind you that just five or six years ago, Serbia was aware that it would not be able to meet one of the standards that in modern societies applies to the election of the Simeon, the Protector of Citizens, and that for that reason it had entered into its Constitution and the law a simple majority for the choice of the Citizens' Protector, so that he could be elected at all. Today, you have chosen the Guardian of Citizens by consensus, which is ideal for the public in the most developed societies. Among other things, and because Serbia has proved to be a country where such a special state authority, without the right to order, to force, to punish, to change the decision of the one it controls, without a two-year history behind it, without any real power, without, as one MP noticed in the debate, the classical powers we are used to, without a party background, will remind me that the Constitution forbids me to be even a member of the political party, yet in Serbia, with the power of arguments and integrity to provide a more favourable life for our citizens and a more favourable and proper relationship with public authorities. Regardless of what has been done, it looks like a needle in a haystack, to me and many, this is yet one of the signs that Serbian and Serbian citizens do not have to, are not destined to be in any kind of seal, are not condemned to any mediocreness and that we have the power to change reality for the better, and that citizens and administrations are not enemies. I will end by thanking the citizens who had the strength, will and patience and faith to address me, thanking those authorities, officials and officials in them, who were willing to accept criticism and advice, correcting their failures and thus contribute to changing the poor administrative matrix of behaviour. Thank my fellow workers for allowing their dedicated work to once again, on behalf of all of them, on behalf of all citizens who expect faster, more, more effectively in the exercise of their rights, today I take another oath, in whose words I trust with all my heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-04-0.u1092	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of both agenda points and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you.
