ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that there are 92 MPs present, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Vera Paunović, Slobodan Veličković, Milorad Stošić, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic, Biljana Pantic, Jelena Mijatović, Zoran Bojanić, Milanka Karić, Irena Alexic, Dusica Močev and Bojana Bozanić. We continue the work and search in the details of the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for the Law on Completion of the Law on the Protection of Personality Data Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and since all amendments have been submitted on a proposal for a bill (the National MP Olgica Batić, during the principled search, withdrew amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, and National MPs Milica Vojić Marković and Donka Banović, in writing, withdrew the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 on 24 October. Proposal for a Law), the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular of the 3rd item of the agenda – I have called on the representatives of Ivica Dačić, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Health Minister, to attend the meetings of Vladimir Cucic, Commissioner for Refugees and Svetlana Velimirović, Deputy Commissioner for Refugees. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGRATION You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the draft law: Bojan Đurić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Judita Popović, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Petar Petkovic, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Srdjan Sajn. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4462	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 2 paragraph 1, which gives the basic concepts relating to this law, the Proposer has explained under point 1, what migration is, but we felt it was very important to add a new point 2 in which it would explain who the migrants are. I'll explain why we said that. I'm inserting the concept of migrants here, and I define it in the way that it's regulated by some other laws, related to this law, that were passed before it. Also, I think it was necessary to explain the concept of asylum. That's what I've put up with in this amendment. I said that an asylum person who, in accordance with the Asylum Act, is granted the right to shelter or be granted subsidiary protection. What was I trying to accomplish? We have a lot of laws that have been passed before this law, as well as those relating to this law. Very often, one of our laws did not clarify enough concepts or definitions to be defined differently in one law and completely different in another law. Let's say, this famous example that Mrs. Minister remembers very well when we discussed last term, the term "child." In one law it was a person up to 18 years old, in the law of the same state it was a person up to 24 years old, and in some third law it was a person up to 16 years old. It causes a problem when the laws apply. That's why we felt it was much more important to clarify here, define what is what and then apply it. Of course, I also mentioned the Law on Asylum and the Law on the ID card and similar laws on personal documentation. In order not to have a problem with how different definitions are defined in these laws, I thought it was much more important to see it here and that we know in one place, that all concepts are fully defined in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4463	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4464	The government has carefully considered all your amendments, a team before your thoughts on very sensitive topics are indeed always welcome in the debate in this House and concluded that the concept of migration is defined by the Asylum Act, and that the concepts of migrants and asylum seekers are colloktial terms that the law does not know and should not be introduced, because the Asylum Act defines the concepts of persons who seek and who are in certain needs. That's what they call themselves. The assessment is that it would be some kind of new but colloking nomenclature.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4465	Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4466	I consulted the lawyers before we wrote the amendments. They don't know the term "colloquial" because it's right to be recognized as something that matters. That's why we put the definition, so that someone doesn't interpret what's colloquial, non-local, or something like that. That's why we wanted to define it. That's the only reason we've submitted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4467	When I was talking about the colloquial term, I was referring to the term asylumist. The person looking for protection is the term used. We think it would have been a pervasive sound if you were to use the term as an official.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4468	Mrs. Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4469	I understand the sensitivity of this termology, but this is a term that has been recognized in all other countries. Azilant is a concept that is recognized in all other countries and we can soften it or say it another way, but it's used in all the other laws that I've looked at, and I've looked at a number of laws and there's always an asylum term. It's just a job to get "asyl" out of "azilant." It just doesn't work out with each other. I ask you to look at similar laws in the countries around us, the asylumist is used everywhere, and nowhere is that pessimistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4470	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4471	Thank you. You'll be counting my time from the time of the mandated DSS representative. I really don't understand why the bill promoter didn't accept that these two terms, when the second member of this bill is a term, I don't know why these two concepts aren't included in that term, or Article 2? Azilant isn't a pessimistic name. It's used as a word in all the other laws that speak of this matter. After all, we've adopted and we have a law called the Asylum Act, so you haven't resorted to any other interpretations, saying it's pervasive. What is burdensome these days and, I would say, pessimistic for all of Serbia is the story of false asylum seekers and that the Republic of Serbia has again agreed that our EU friends are blaming us for one phenomenon, that they are using it for the appearance of so-called. false asylum seekers or the worst-case asylum seekers from the Republic of Serbia, and to use this once again as additional pressure on the Republic of Serbia and the government of Serbia to agree to any concessions and conditions coming from the EU. Why is the story of fake asylum seekers just another kind of pressure? Because the EU, or countries that fall within the Schengen area, can solve the problem, of course, with the help of Serbia, but it is a problem that they can solve. What the countries leading the story from the EU, that the state of Serbia should abolish its position on the Schengen White List, are asking Serbia to control the issue of passports to its citizens and to stop so-called. false asylum seekers at their border, and in fact all the instruments of the EU countries are in hands. First of all, countries so-called. Schengen zones have very good databases, so by checking the computer, mostly, they can identify the one they call a fake asylumist. That's one thing. Another thing, the Republic of Serbia cannot bring valid documents to refuse or ban the issue of passports. This means a violation of all the human and constitutional rights of the citizens of this country. That's one thing. Serbia cannot reject someone who has valid documents and refuses to issue passports. The other thing is that Serbia cannot prevent anyone at its border, of course, if it has a valid and orderly passport, from leaving the country, because not even seeking asylum, even if you assume that someone will seek asylum, nor seeking asylum is an offence and it is not a criminal act. What any country that belongs to that Schengen area can prevent these false asylum seekers from entering the first Schengen border. So again, for who knows which time we have taken the blame for something that we are not really guilty of, and now we invent and invent some working groups, we are even offering EU countries to compensate for the financial damage they are suffering, because of the procedures they are conducting around asylum seekers. You should have put the term "azilant" in this term, and it could have even been an obstacle to explain to Serbian citizens what false asylum seekers are and how this tool is used again against Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4472	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4473	Thank you. Again, it is our proposal to include two new concepts in this second term, which is the term "house" and the term "subsidian aid". The sanctuary is the right to stay and protect, which is given to a person on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for whom the competent authority has determined that his fear of persecution in the country of origin has been established. This is the first term we propose to be included in Article 2, first in this amendment. The second term is – what does that mean? For the sake of citizens, I will read – subsidiary assistance is a form of protection, which the Republic of Serbia approves of a foreign citizen, who, in the event of a return to the country of origin, would be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment, or his life, security and freedom would be threatened by violence of general proportions. I hope all MPs have read this bill, he's not long, he has about 20 members. You probably came across this particular term "subsidarian aid" and I'm guessing 90% of you didn't know what that meant. Therefore, all citizens who are going to read this bill, or the law, will not be clear to them either. That's why we wanted that term to enter Article 2. The answer is, again, as it was in the previous amendment, that this concept is explained in the Asylum Act. We don't think that's good. That would mean that, if you were to read this law on migration management, you had to move on so that you would first ask to know what law the interpretation of that term would be, but then you have to rely on the Asylum Act or look for it and see what it means. The bill uses the term in many places, and therefore we think that you should not have rejected the amendment. I love that Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic is here with us today, yet she has been our president for four years, and now, unfortunately, she is no longer. However, it would be much better if there were a real draft of this law here, and that is the interior minister, because he is the proponent of this law of the MUP Serbia. We know that our Home Secretary is also the Prime Minister, so he has a lot of obligations, I suppose. But he wasn't there even when we talked in principle about this law, and he's not here today when we explain the amendments. I believe he's here today, so he might accept some amendment. Of our 17 amendments, only one has been accepted. We think it will somehow, of course, not be directed to Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, but that the MUP has refused to do so by the automation of amendments coming from the opposition. Where's our Prime Minister? Why isn't he in the congregation today for this debate? My colleagues remind me that the Serbian Prime Minister is in Brussels today, because he has an appointment or a meeting, and then a working dinner with Hashim Thaci. I guess there'll be a housewife at the work dinner, I hope not the cook, Mrs. Catherine Ashton. Of course, I'm not talking about women in politics as per se or bad, but I'm just afraid that Mrs. Ashton doesn't put the chorus in our Prime Minister's mouth, so when she gets back from Brussels and with those talks, he's going to pick up all the citizens of Serbia. We of the Democratic Party of Serbia have been talking for months why we are against the fact that a statesman, in this case the Prime Minister, is talking to a person from Pristina named Hashim Thaci. Hashim Thaci is suspected of taking part in the store...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4474	Mrs. Banovic, I understand the political need, but this has nothing to do with this amendment or the agenda. You pointed out that you would like Mr. Dacic to be present today, but I think there is a place and a way to address the public on this subject. This is a debate on the amendment to Article 2 that you have submitted. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4475	I think I'm sticking to the subject. I didn't mind, because 17 of our amendments were rejected. The proposer of this law is the interior ministry headed by the minister, or Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Dacic. The interior minister was not present when the debate was in principle. He had other business obligations. Today when the debate is in particular and where we would, I suppose, convince the Minister of the Interior to accept some amendment, he is absent. Now I explain what he thinks is more important than being in the National Assembly. I think I'm absolutely on the subject. Later, my colleague will discuss the principle of border management and the security of citizens. The minister will not be present again, and we from the media find out that the Prime Minister is talking to a person suspected of trading in Kosovo and Metohija, that he will discuss with him today border management and agreements signed by the previous government. I think I'm absolutely on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4476	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4477	Mrs. Banovic, if the previous prime ministers had at least a part or degree of responsibility that has incumbent Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, he would be sitting here today. About the terms you were talking about, subsidiary protection. The term is absolutely defined in the Asylum Act, published in Official Messenger, issue 109/07. So, if we're going to re-publish it and redefine it, I don't think it's necessary to define the same terms twice in the legislative matter. I'm sure Prime Minister Dacic would say the same to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4478	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4479	Dear President, Ms Dejanovic, the distinguished Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia, I will speak as an authorised representative, and I will also refer to this amendment since it is the topic of the agenda. As I said in the debate in principle, this is a law that the Democratic Party will support for the reason that it is in some way part of the European agenda, which is part of the need to resolve asylum issues, which is part of the possibility of managing migration and part of the possibility of keeping the white Schengen, i.e. that our citizens can still travel freely to the countries of the European Union, which is well threatened. However, I must refer to some of the questions Mrs Banovic mentioned. First, I am truly disappointed with the fact that the resolute minister, or Prime Minister, is not in this assembly when it comes to issues concerning his ministry. I do not deny his obligations as Prime Minister. However, this is the problem of co-ordination between the speaker of the assembly and the Prime Minister to comply with those obligations. You knew Mr. Dacic would speak to Mr. Thaci today. Is that right? You also knew there was going to be a debate about this law and you should have brought it together. Madam Minister, I do not accept, in some way, the amnesia of some previous period that you have brought into debate. I don't remember you, or members of your political party or coalition, being dissatisfied with the way the previous government functioned. You haven't said that in four years, or talked about good co-operation with the Democratic Party that was the pillar of the coalition. Today you say that the previous prime ministers did their job as they were supposed to, that Mr. Dacic would not be where he is today. I can't accept that. I think it's a policy that says we can talk today and tomorrow we can talk to each other. On the other hand, it is not a good thing about this law there is no unity in the ruling coalition. I'm sorry that the SNS MPs, when this session was opened, were organised to leave this room. I don't know what this is about. There are a few MPs left. Is that a sequel to the story... (President: I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. At this point, SNS deputies are present in the O.R. There are more of them than MPs of the Democratic Party who are not even in the O.R. ) Mr. Chairman, all those who sat in this hall were able to notice that SNS MPs had left the hall after the opening session and that it was okay where they sat, so in the benches, there were five MPs left, and here are New Serbia MPs and part of the coalition. Whether the Democratic Party MPs will sit, and see how many SPS and the URS are. So the presence is adequate for the presence of the minister sitting there. Yesterday, we had, unfortunately, an ugly scene that the minister of the SPS had given a hot potato to defend the indefensible Amnesty Act, but I am not going back to yesterday's topic, but I am going to talk about today's migration law that I support, as well as this amendment by Mrs. Banovic. I think maybe he should have considered it, maybe he would have introduced an explanation into the law itself. In that sense, the law is good, the law is in the direction that solves an open question. Either way, it can be fixed. I see no reason for the government not to accept this amendment. I think he was designed to clarify some questions, but the people who wrote this law certainly know why they refused this amendment. I think we should consider that question one more time, even after dinner, talk to Mr. Dacic. By the time you vote, you have the opportunity to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4480	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4481	Mr. Veseinovic, as a very competent lawyer, you know that one of the definitions should not be redefined in another law. You know that better than I do. I've learned that from you lawyers in the Assembly. Second, you certainly distinguish between unity and plural. I didn't want to personalize, not to get out of the agenda, but I was talking about previous governments with a tendency not to mention and not to individualize the issue that was raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4482	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4483	I'd like to talk about article 107. Rules of Procedure. President, it is not really right to allow members of other parliamentary groups to talk about the SNS parliamentary group where I am also a member of the Roma party. There's just one thing you need to understand. Unlike those parliamentary groups that supported the government in the former regime, they were not organised, who talked about everything and everything, and had no impact on what was happening in the country, we organized ourselves in this sense. You have 30 MPs here, and it's really not right that the irresponsibility you've had before, you think everyone has the same irresponsibility today. Serbia is clearly different, and it is from its amendment that I will also talk about how and how the SNS parliamentary group is taking care of how the executive authority behaves and that in a very clear way today we will also criticise what today's government is doing, individuals who are not doing well, but that we are essentially fighting for the state to be different. I think you need the president, that things like that, not only to warn you, but to disallow, as Mrs. Comic, in due time, has turned off the microphones, because there is no need for us to listen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4484	National MP Janko Veselinović. On what basis are you answering? Replic on whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4485	It's a replica on the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4486	Can't you answer on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4487	I'm reporting as an authorised representative and responding to the previous exposure. Let me get this straight. After the entry of only a few MPs, there are now 15 MPs in the SNS parliamentary benches, and of which are members of the Roma Party, New Serbia, etc. Members of the SNS, let's say there are 10 purely for the sake of the truth of the number of total MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4488	Mr. Veselinović, at this point, if we are to make the truth, there are 18 SNS MPs sitting in these benches. But the SNS has a right of course to talk about it, and I just want to tell you this. I think we should get this debate back on the subject, that we should talk here about a law that's on the agenda, because if we count how many of whose MPs are sitting at the moment and if we take out attendance documents by the number of hours, I'm sure that many of us won't be happy about it. I think it should be a warning for all of us, our MPs that we should safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly and our presence and activities during the session. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that the title and the new member be added above Article 3. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4489	We find it inadmissible that such a law in the chapter of which some principles are listed does not contain the principle of respect for human rights and non-discrimination. I will read how this principle is proposed to be an integral part of the law – migration management is implemented with respect to human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and approved international contracts. The application of the law prohibits discrimination based on race, origin, citizenship, nationality, property, gender, age and disability. We really don't understand why you refused to include this principle in this bill. Before this bill applies and deals with some very sensitive and vulnerable social groups, which are refugees, displaced persons, returnees under the readmission agreement and asylum seekers, or asylum seekers. You again answer that you did not put this principle in place because the Constitution states that Serbian citizens and all those staying in Serbia are protected from fundamental human rights. It is true, however, that there are over 30 members in the Constitution who are dealing with this problem, we believe that is not enough. If we were to manage everything in our Constitution, it is one of the best and most modern constitutions in Europe today, then we would not adopt other laws. So we could always say that in that and that member is being processed that and that matter. So this answer, I suppose, is a response from the MUP, so this answer and by refusing this amendment is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4490	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4491	The principles set out in the Constitution, the principles of respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination are, as you have said, detailedly done and not the MUP analysed this amendment but lawyers, so legislation. So the view is that something defined and detailed in this basic legal act should not be repeated. There are also very competent lawyers around you, so this is actually a suggestion of the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4492	The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4493	I don't want to spread the discussion right now, but the Constitution is also talking about a ban on discrimination. I said that even in thirty and a few members are talking about a ban on discrimination, so that was no reason not to adopt the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in the last term. So it could also be said, we don't need a set of anti-discrimination laws, we don't have to pass them, we don't have to have a trustee to ban discrimination and the whole office because it's governed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4494	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4495	The law prohibiting discrimination is one of the laws we all must be proud of. The constitution has given principled frameworks for the adoption of this law, and complete concreteisation has already found its place under the name of the law in this law. A team before, the content and bans of the constitution should not be re-labelled, the lawyers say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4496	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4497	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, lawyers deal incredibly differently with the same matter at different times. Let's just say that when we look at the entire past term, we've passed laws that were clearly implemented by the principles that were, of course, very generally given in the Constitution, which refers further to the law. Now the lawyers are thinking differently and it's probably just the air conditioning and I don't want to get into it. But I want us to understand one thing. The first Serbian constitution says in one member -- every slave that reaches Serbia's border becomes a free man. It used to be what adorned Serbia a long time ago. I hope it should be so beautiful in the 21st century today, and why we wrote this amendment just like this. It's exactly what I told you earlier. I come from Valyev, and very close to Valyev is the Lord. It's a famous space where everything that shouldn't be happening under the Refugee Commissioner. It happened that people had no right to health care, that they weren't treated. It happened that they were forced to work. It happened that they lived in a meadow and slept in a meadow. Let me remind you what happened in Vronjska Banja. So, for those reasons, we have brought this principle. People have to respect human rights and it does not apply to each individual, but to the state and its institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4498	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4499	Thank you, Mr. President. I support my colleague's amendment, and I don't think this is about misunderstandings or differences between lawyers who interpret whether something needs to be specifically worked out in this kind of law, as far as human rights are concerned. I think the misunderstanding is much deeper. So, in this bill of law, we have one understanding of the whole subject, completely away from the complex of human rights. That's the main lack of this law. It's in the idea of where the police minister is or... It's not police law, it's a law that has a very inter-resor and multi-sectoral significance. So the minister of police cannot be responsible for the topic of migration. So it was very important that we have this principle that we would then talk about this issue, especially of migrants not being approached in a conservative way that is seen through some solutions in this law where the most important thing is to provide them with some kind of collective accommodation. It is an entirely retrograde approach to this topic, the continuation of the policy we had towards the refugees and displaced persons, and which has led to this refugee crisis in Serbia for so long, because the problem has not been approached from the human rights point of view. These people have the right to access education, health, employment, housing services. That is the essence of the insistence on this amendment which my colleagues have submitted and which I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4500	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4501	I'm glad the Assembly can have and should have a final word, especially when it comes to a strong argument of essence. I am here under the obligation to pass on to you the position of legal experts, or legislation, but MPs can always vote and simply call on the power of parliament in essential decisions that may once again need to be analysed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4502	National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted an amendment proposing that the title and the new member of the 3a be added after Article 3. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4503	Mr. President, migration flows by logic of things lead to a change in the composition of the population in the area from which immigrants go, or to which immigrants come, and that's just the way it is. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains one clear ban, namely one clear guarantee against members of minority communities, in Article 78, which speaks of the ban on violent discrimination and in particular of the ban on taking measures that would lead to change, which would result in an artificial change in the national composition of the population. It is a general ban that applies to all areas where the government, other state authorities, can take any measure. In our amendment, we have proposed that this constitutional principle be developed, incorporated into the Law on Migration Management, with the aim of creating an unequivocal legal situation, that this constitutional principle be applied in this area as well. We are truly grateful to the promoter for accepting this amendment, and I think it's a good step. On the other hand, given everything that's happened in the 1990s, and this jagged trust between state authorities and minority communities, I think from that point of view, it's a good thing that this amendment has been accepted, certainly that this can contribute to the rebuilding or strengthening of that trust. We will be on our side, and as Members of the SVM, we will participate and help. Finally, I would like to say that it would be really good to consider once again the possibility of accepting a previous amendment from the DSS, because the explanation that this amendment has been rejected in one significant way contrary to the explanation that this amendment has been adopted, so that I would join the appeals of those MPs who support and that previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4504	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 4th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4505	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, watching this count that lasts a short period in the hall, I have to say that I've invested quite a bit of time to count all the strategies that the state has made and I have to tell you that this number is 139 and I'm not even sure that I've been able to count and find everything I wanted to count. So I found 139 different strategies from completely different areas. Only in this area covered by the law, which was first adopted as a normative framework, and I found six different strategies. I may not be quite sure about that either, but six different strategies and I have to say that the problem of coordination between these great strategies is very large. When you have so many different strategies, of course it happens to completely overlook the essence, because you're trying to do what's impossible, to introduce order between six different substances. So what it all looks like in real life, you can imagine and what it looks like in law enforcement, we all know that, too, because that control function of the Assembly, we don't do as often as we should, and if we did, we could see everything and everything that the laws are interpreting further. When it comes to this, we felt here that a respectful strategy should be introduced one word, respecting the strategy. I guess we agreed that these six strategies cover this area and that we look at it that way. Now you say economic development policies. You know what, when the law is set up like that and the law is defined like that, when you go so wide and completely inaccurate and completely unclear, then you lose the essence of the law, because you won't be able to apply it. What kind of economic development policies are these? The state must have one policy of economic development, which is a framework for all those policies that are within it. You have energy policy, economy policy, agriculture policy, but that's all one framework, one economic development policy. So, please, take things down to very useful measures, because I have the impression that the legislator deliberately extends this subject in such a way that he could continue to do what he's been doing, because practically this commissioner who's had a lot of complaints is actually, and the legislator of this law, and how he's been doing and how he interpreted the law, is best seen in the draft of this law. This broadly set cannot be applied. We wanted, since this law was first passed in this area, to place things on healthy ground, on their feet, so that whoever reads this law understands what needs to be done. When you have strong strategies to call upon, the huge economic policies you call upon, what does that mean? What we can rely on as regular law readers and those who need to apply it or those who need to protect their rights by means of this law. It's very inaccurate, very fluid, very vague, and I'm asking you to understand that we can't make laws like this. It's clear to me that when one of the ministries proposes a law, they're people who do that matter, and this is the first time that we have a descriptive law in which we need to try to find what is essential, and the essence is the protection of human rights. We find it all somewhere in some other law, as it says in the Constitution, in the Asylum Act, it says in the ID card, but I'm sorry, so what does the law do if we're going to apply to all these laws? I guess we should see it in this law, gentlemen. That's why our amendment went in the direction, please put everything on sound ground, simplify things so that we can track where we're looking for and where we can apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4506	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 5. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4507	I am the signator of this amendment and it stands in the government's opinion, so please correct it. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, where I am asking for a change of title above Article 5, which would read - the principle of protection and co-operation with diaspora and Serbs in the region. We think it is much more appropriate to make this title, precisely because it will rightly define and explain the relationship between the state of Serbia and the diaspora. If the diaspora is the most numerous part of migration, i.e. external migration or emigration, as set out in the bill, then it is very important to show in the right way in this article regarding the diaspora that the country's relationship to the diaspora should be. In the previous title that speaks of strengthening relationships among other things, I have to say that things don't stand that way and that the question of strengthening relationships doesn't match the same, because they can't strengthen where they don't exist. I would say there is almost no connection between the state of Serbia and the diaspora in the right way. It's been 100 days of government, we're just now, or the government has formed a diaspora office. The list has not yet been completed, no telling how many Serbs live outside Serbia. We all know the bad situation, especially when it comes to the Serbian people in the region. The example of Croatia best shows the full discrimination of the Croatian state against Serbs living there. It's similar in Hungary. Last time in the debate, I mentioned in principle that in 2012 Hungary passed a constitution in which national minorities were expelled in the basic law, so Serbs living in Hungary for centuries now do not have the right to political organisation, have their own representative in the Hungarian parliament, but it must be Hungary. These are very serious and important issues. The state of Serbia must properly address these issues and, therefore, in the title of the issue, protection and co-operation is something that is very important. At first glance, it would seem as if it were a cosmetic change, and it is essential that we do not have, firstly, when it comes to diaspora, and secondly, what Serbs need is for the state to stand behind them, to support them, to ask questions in bilateral talks by the ministers on the agenda, especially when they meet with the ministers and officials of those states where the Serbs have a problem with coming to the agenda, and not only after all these meetings, that the ministers may also meet with the Serbian diaspora in the country they visit. Therefore, we feel that it was important for this article, or title, to make this change. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted this amendment and we are really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4508	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4509	The idea to provide for the protection of rights and co-operation with diaspora and Serbs in the region is, according to the government's assessment, contained in Article 5, which says that migration management is achieved by improving the situation and protecting the rights, interests of members of diaspora and Serbs in the region, by preserving, strengthening and achieving ties between members of diaspora and Serbs in the region with the Republic of Serbia, especially after the addition of Article 5a, which says that migration management is based on the protection of the rights of the person in the migration process, with respect to the maximum specificity of their needs and interests in line with the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia. It is estimated that the principle of protection of rights is actually embedded in these contents and that the trend you were thinking about is satisfied through these two members of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4510	Thank you. The word is Petar Petkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4511	Madam Minister, I don't think you understand. It is not about the words in this article, but about improving the relationship between the state of Serbia and the diaspora, among other things. You know there is already a Diaspora Act, you know there is a government strategy when it comes to diaspora and Serbia in the region. You know that the government has adopted a declaration with some sound name on declaring special relations of the most important state importance between Serbia and the diaspora and Serbs in the region. It's all there, and the situation is very bad. You think this article you've read will change things? No, I don't. Here was the idea of trying to start with terminology to show that there was also a willingness of the government to go more seriously into the essence of the problem, because over the past four years no one has dealt with it. We know the diaspora assembly is formed. Last time I said it again, it was just a work plan that was adopted, so the work rule and nothing else. Then what is this diaspora, this congregation, this law? The organized part of the diaspora is almost uninformed, or, on the other hand, does not call for it to give its opinion and opinion on key issues, among other things, and on this law. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4512	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4513	Thank you, Chairman. Regarding this amendment, I can repeat what I said in the debate in principle, that it is very good that the government in the draft law has introduced in the provisions as Minister Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic quoted a provision defining this principle as an important principle of action in this area of migration, both internal and external, so that I do not consider it crucial. I think it will be more important how much this government will do to realize this principle. The government's work so far, 100 or slightly more days, has shown that this principle is absolutely not respected and that the position of diaspora and Serbs in the region is on the margins, that laws from this area are not being passed, that they are not even known for their existence. I'm glad only the fact, and I have to commend it, last time, if you remember, in the discussion I asked the question of the appointment of the Director of the Office, last Thursday I asked the question as a parliamentary question and on Thursday or Friday the government appointed the Director of the Office. However, in front of it, as a female, it is a serious task to make up for and miss during this period. Untapped budgets remained during that period, what remains is what the colleague mentioned, the need for the third diaspora and Serbs in the region to be convened this year, remains to be implemented part of the resolution, a declaration from this area adopted by the previous government. A number of open issues, almost daily from this area, are open and require a government reaction, or office. Therefore, it cannot happen that the rights of Serbs in the region to individual acts of the government, or certain actions of the state authorities, without the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Office in charge of it, and sometimes the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, react. These cases of violations of the basic human rights of Serbs in the region are far too high. Finally, I thank Mrs Dejanovic for clarifying the issue of relations with the previous government, that her unit did not refer to the previous government of Mr Cvetkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4514	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Shin has tabled an amendment with an amendment, proposing that a new article 5a be added after article 5. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not stated. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4515	The basic idea of this amendment is to balance two things right now. One thing is that we have, on the one hand, the interest of a state that leads, for the sake of general interest, a particular migration policy. But on the other hand, we have the interest of these concrete people who are part of these migrations, and if we don't strike a balance between these two things, then we can have very bad experiences, and these are exactly the experiences that my colleagues have talked about before me. On the other hand, a new dimension here opens, because we are not just talking about Serbs in the region through this amendment. There is clearly Serbia talking about two different policies. We certainly have one interest in talking about Serbs in Republika Srpska or Serbs in some other parts of the territory that are in the environment, and that one qualitatively different way we have to talk about Serbs in the diaspora, which are, for example, in Austria, located in Germany or in some other countries, and there are a lot of them. According to my information, more than 200,000 Serbian citizens live in Austria alone, whether they are members of the Serbian national community or members of other national communities. In that direction, we have to run an active policy. With this amendment and some other things we're working out. We're dealing with the situation, which is best known by the Commissioner's people, that a few years ago, 12 million dinars were sent to an institution called the Roma National Council, and that because of the marifetteluks in that organization, 2 million were spent and those 10 million were withdrawn, because it was simply very clear to the donor where the abuse of these funds was. Today, we have a situation that the whole state has serious problems as to why individuals are irresponsiblely acting in this way and because of this irresponsible behavior threatens us to abolish the white Schengen. Now I'm going to agree with my DS colleagues, especially what Borko Stefanovic was saying yesterday, that we have to behave differently. We need to criticise today's authorities who are not working properly. I'm going to set a bad example today, and I'd like to ask the minister to pass it on to the government. I addressed October 12th and a parliamentary question in this regard to the government, and to this day I have not received an answer. Although the well-intention of the finance minister and the well-meaning of the parliamentary majority have separated 22,500,000 dinars to create a database for the Roma integration process, which is one of the essential things for the management of migration, as we all hear today that one of the key problems and one of the key things Serbia has to face in the migration process is the issue of the Roma national community, however, behold, Mr. Director of the Office for Human and Minority Rights says it is not interested and that it will not implement it and it will return 22.5 million to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want me here as a member of the Roma Party, or anyone in the majority, to be held accountable for the activities of the individual. We need to talk about this openly in Parliament. My colleague's on the phone right now, and he's telling us we're not here. I'd like him to hear, and then he'd like to comment on this thing with me. So, we need to put the Director's responsibility for Human and Minority Rights in the most serious way. We must not allow this mandate, as people have allowed four years in the last term, that someone has the exclusiveness to resolve the issue of the most vulnerable group in Serbia and thus redistribute the shoes after four years. Look at the greater evil, a man who was director of the Office of Co-operation with The Hague, probably thinks we should send that community to asylum now, and will likely continue its process of sending Serbian citizens to certain places. I think this is a very serious question. I suggest the minister inform the government of that. I am also informing the Chair of the Assembly and the President of the Assembly that we have reached an agreement with Mrs Olena Papuga as someone who is chairing the work of the Committee on International Affairs and on matters of national communities. We also showed concern for the representatives of the OSCE, the Council of Europe, who are interested in attending the meeting, that this is the worst example of irresponsible behaviour. This amendment is now pushing for responsible behaviour by the representatives of the Authority. This just shows that we must seduce order in Serbia, that this parliamentary majority is responsible, that we are not interested in who is a member of which political parties, that we must also say in our ranks who are irresponsible people and that this is the quality of Serbia today compared to some times past. In this sense, I expect that, regardless of Mr. Dusan Ignatovic's behaviour, who will have to respect this member we're talking about, when this member becomes an integral part of the law, that such ossion behavior must be the strictest government to sanction and that the government is about observing the activities of individuals in the state administration, must show a clear definition that it wants to manage migration in a good way, that it wants to manage the most vulnerable groups, which are usually the subject of these migrations that we are talking about. I once again say that this amendment is about all those discussions that you've discussed before, that we really need to talk about the rights of people affected by migration. In this regard, I am also pleased with the Roma Party and the citizens with whom I spoke about what the Government has adopted this amendment. As the Committee has not accepted, I hope that the Committee will hold a session and accept and possibly be an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4516	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4517	I agree with Mr. Shane that this government is irresponsible in certain elements. Probably his speech wasn't about the whole government. I'd say the entire government has introduced the inability to monitor some consistency with confusion. In that sense, I think the entire government is irresponsible. It's possible that it's also in this matter, which Mr. Shane was talking about. I don't want to defend the minority office, which has begun to work, but I think Mr. Shane has made a very difficult point at the expense of this office formed by the government, or at the expense of the most responsible people. It's possible she didn't do anything. It is possible that in some ways it shares the fate of the government's work, but I believe that qualifications for possible director activities are not certainly justified. In any case, I consider the previous government, since in that sense it was Mr. Shane's intensity, when it came to human and minority rights almost everything. Even beyond European standards in a positive way, it has settled normably individual issues, established standards, gave national major national minorities minority rights guaranteeing minority autonomy, and in this regard there is no possibility of anyone seriously objecting, except for an international organisation, which has given the highest marks on this issue. I think that this government, so now I'm joining it, is that we should be constructive in our criticisms. He needs to eventually see if any previous government has missed and implemented the laws. I think minorities will be able to be satisfied with the work of the previous government, but also these governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4518	Thank you. Mr. Shane, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4519	I need to get you some information and give you some of the things you've been saying I'm denying. They're not hard qualifications at all. These are only qualifications in accordance with the current moment. The fact that the gentleman at the time of your government was head of the Office of Co-operation with The Hague and may have gained sympathy for certain things and that may be why you're defending him, I really have no one to defend, even if he is part of today's administration today. I wasn't talking about the government. I was talking about segments of the government in depth, and this applies to the Office, not to the Government and to the members of the government. On the other hand, I don't know what you call in Bujanovac representatives of the international community in elections for national councils, where representatives of the Albanian national and Roma national communities come out, in one election place count a hundred people that have come out, and in boxes there are 500 votes of members of that list that you have supported and formed in the offices of your DS supported by the institutions of your party in Novi Sad, for which I have filed a criminal appeal to the court, which we still don't have today... Is that called tutoring? Is it called interference with the National Council and how you call the fact that Serbia could not hear today because of the blockade of the media, that your high representative at the first session of the Roma National Council sat together with an independent body, that a kidnapped man from Pozharec was on his way to change the president of the National Council and that only nine million euros were spent in the Roma integration process without anyone seeing it? Dear colleague, this majority and we as part of this majority really don't want to allow it anymore. (President: Time. I'm using the MP's time group. (President: You have no right when you get the word for replica. I'm done with this sentence then. You can't do that anymore. You can have as much sympathy for Mr. Ignatovic as you want. If he violates the rights of 500,000 people of the citizens of this country, I'm sorry, no one is above the rights of those citizens and until that changes, neither will we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4520	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4521	Just an explanation. For the first time today, I heard of the name and name of the director of the minority office. I really had no intention of defending his work, only qualifications that were difficult and I wouldn't want to repeat. I don't want to judge his work, and I suppose what Mr. Shane said is true, but I don't want to go into it. Let me just say, when it comes to the vote in Novi Sad and the consequences of that vote. The party, the group of citizens who thus won five terms of office and against whom you have filed a criminal report, is adequate to vote in Novi Sad, and is now in coalition with, guess who, the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4522	Thank you. Mr. Shane, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4523	I'm sorry, you misunderstood me. I was talking about the National Council election. I understand that you people from the National Council have brought it to parliament to give it to them as a reward for doing certain things to you in the National Council. It's your habit. I understand your habit of identifying elections with the National Council with elections for municipalities, cities and republican parliaments. However, these were not elections for city councilors. These were elections for the Roma National Council. I understand you don't tell the difference. I understand it's the same for you. However, there are laws in this country to elect MPs, laws to elect representatives in local self-governments and elections for members of national councils, in which only representatives of members of national communities can participate, and I have very reliable information that when it comes to the Roma National Council, it was not so. Don't ask those questions. Don't put any more weight on it. It's really like we're telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4524	Thank you. We've completed a circle of replicas. I've already said it, and I need to be consistent. You've been arguing for eight minutes. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: Just to answer, I will not answer again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4525	Thank you, Chairman, for your understanding. I can't help but respond to some qualifications. So there are laws concerning elections at the republican level, in the province and municipal and certainly that these are different things, different levels of government and different problems. It is this ruling coalition that does not want to understand it and does not want to see it. You could have listened to a representative of the SPS last night from Leskovec who, in fear, said he was threatened, that he was scared, and that he had to succumb to the pressures to make a coalition with the SNS. That's what I'm talking about. So Mr. Shane doesn't understand the practice of normative. The practice of this ruling coalition is quite different from what they may have advocated before the elections. Now they've trampled that practice. I won't answer on this one again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4526	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4527	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this amendment, Mr. Shaina, is very interesting. Perhaps you should consider it, even though the Bill of Law in certain members speaks of the right of migrants, and if we will, even the evasive and displaced persons. Allow for the sake of truth and for the sake of justice to say two sentences concerning the previous discussions of Mr. Veselinović, in which he made false statements, which is next. He said the previous government had done well regarding migrants and evasive faces without this one. I'm just mentioning the facts. This government, headed by Mr. Dacic, has appointed the Director of the Office, as you have heard, of the diaspora. So in these three months, he may seem late, but because of the importance of the diaspora of the refugees and displaced, he was careful who would lead the government. Then, too, this migration law proves that this government will actually give particular attention, etc. I must for the sake of truth and justice, the previous government of Mr. Veselinovic, whose party did most of the previous government, has done the greatest evil that exists in the history of migrants, when it comes to evading and displaced persons. His representatives signed with the Republic of Croatia such an agreement and an agreement that they gave up 42,000 residential units of displaced persons. It seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, that Mr. Veselinovic was in charge of the Republic of Croatia, and I haven't heard him say a word for the past four years in the last term that he said a single sentence. This is for the sake of truth and justice. I won't speak, I spoke in principle that the rights of migrants were violated, when they escaped and displaced faces and what the previous government had never done. I appeal, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, to you, and I believe that Mr. Dacic will do so, knowing him, that when visiting the countries from which migrations were made, it is to be given the task of each minister his own action and that the first item of the agenda in the negotiations is precisely about the rights of migrants. This was for the sake of truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4528	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4529	It's obvious from the plane that it's about insinuations and insinuations. Finally, in the first row, or second row, representatives of the Refugee Commissioner, who dealt with this problem during the previous period. And Minister Dacic was in that government. No agreement with Croatia has been signed on any Serb rights to be reduced. On the contrary, both the Commissioner for Refugees and the Government were committed to the issue. With their help and the involvement of former foreign minister, the country's president, the government's president, a donor conference has been organised to enable the care of the most vulnerable families, 70,000 families in Serbia, a number of refugees returning to Croatia, Bosnia and Montenegro. So this is absolutely not true. On the other hand, the government, not because of thinking about solutions, was stalling the office director's name, but because they couldn't agree. Only when the opposition pointed to the problem did they accept a solution that was already two, three months in circulation faster and better. Because they didn't have a better or worse solution, they gave it a solution. I hope it's permanent and I hope it's a good solution. In that sense, it's not about any deep analysis on this matter. All the other directors of the office were appointed after ten days or a month after the government was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4530	Thank you. The word is Mr. Atlagic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4531	For the sake of truth and justice, it is not true what the previous MP stated when it comes to household rights. It is true that the Sarajevo Agreement agreed between the four states that it would return to its previous situation. It is also true that representatives of the former government, i.e. their authorities, signed and agreed with the Republic of Croatia so-called Social care, where housing rights are not returned, which were social property. That Mr. Veselinović knows very well. Perhaps, Mr. Veselinovic, it would be good to examine your role in how much you have contributed to this problem earlier as a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4532	Don't speak directly to the MP, please. Mr. Veselinović, come in. We're closing a circle of replicas after you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4533	Thank you. These terms used by Atlagic, used by the Croatian Government and these are their terms – housing care, etc. I don't know where he got that from imputing to the Serbian government, since the Serbian government was against it. I see you are quite familiar with Croatian legislation, which is unfair to Serb returnees, and I agree with that. However, where did you get this idea that it was part of any signature agreement, etc. I was not concerned with the issue of housing, I was dealing with minority issues, issues of language protection, letters, Serbian learning, Cyrillic letters, etc. You've mixed the pots, Mr. Atlagic, as usual. [[Marco Atlagic, from the place: Please, replica. What is stated is not true.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4534	Okay, I'll give you my word now, but please, we're really closing the circle of replicas. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4535	Thank you, Chairman. Just for the sake of truth, it is true that this is Croatian terminology and that I am also studying Croatian legislation when it comes to our evasive and displaced faces. I don't think that's a negative. I think it's a plus. You have a minus, which you have been in charge of, that you do not know these laws that are being violated by our migrants, so when it comes to the rights of Serbs from Croatia, there is a greater violation than anywhere, not only in Europe but also in the world. If you have followed other rights, and in the law of principle, I have stated that when it comes to language and letter, Mr. Veselinović, we see how you followed it, because Serbs today cannot use it, in accordance with Croatian laws and the Constitution, and here you have kept quiet for four years, which is really sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4536	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Replica. I've closed the circle of replicas. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4537	The Rules of Procedure have been injured four times. Mr. Atlagic spoke to me personally four times and you did not warn him. If he hasn't read the Rules of Procedure, you've read it and I think you know it well. Please, in order not to enter in such a way, I would say, which violates the reputation of the Assembly, that you warn Mr Atlagic, or any other MP, in time. So he can't speak directly to me or to any other MP, and he's also false, not knowing the facts I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4538	I don't agree with you that I broke the rules of procedure, since Mr. Atlagic, while he was exhibiting, warned that he wasn't addressing you directly. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Petar Petkovic together submitted an amendment proposing that the title and new member be added after Article 5. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4539	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, here is another very good amendment from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, where we propose that Article 6 should come after Article 5, entitled "the principle of security of the state border and the security of citizens". Article 6: "Migration management is carried out by ensuring the safety and non-violence of the state border of the Republic of Serbia as well as the security and security of citizens, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and confirmed international contracts". Perhaps on today it is also of particular importance to this amendment, since it is talking about the preservation and protection of the state border of the Republic of Serbia, especially because the Prime Minister is in Brussels today talking to Hashim Thaci about, among other things, integrated border management. To remind me, the previous government has accepted in Brussels, agreed on integrated border management, i.e. creating a state border between Serbia and Serbia, that is, Kosovo and the rest of Serbia, because this precisely means integrated border management. Let me also remind you that the issue of migration policy is related to "IMB", because it is one of the basic elements of migration policy, as is also in the Strategy on the Management of Migration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the regime of integrated border management. It is very important for this bill to also be a member, because it is a mechanism to protect our borders, especially when we talk about migration flows, population policy, when we talk about freedom of movement, etc. In 2009, the interior minister signed with the European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders, which is one agency called "Frontex", which deals specifically with integrated border management issues as state borders where border police officers are located. The 2009 Migration Management Strategy mentions the same signed agreement between the interior minister and the director and the agency, which clearly states that it is the external border, i.e. the state border. The Lisbon Treaty mentions integrated border management as the highest form of mutual, or good neighbourly co-operation between the two countries. That just means "IMB" and what is being negotiated today in Brussels, but also what the prime minister announced, that everything agreed on in Brussels and implemented. This means establishing a border between Kosovo and Serbia. In the light of which this amendment is rejected, it states that the Constitution means the protection of the state border. Madam Minister, if the Constitution were to be understood, many things would not have been done and were done. First, the Constitution is being violated on all sides in the previous four years. in the case of the former President of the Republic, when it comes to the fact that the anti-constitutional Statute of Vojvodina was adopted, also, the Information Act, etc. After all, all of these regulations that the government has passed, and on a proposal from the DSS, we have launched a constitutional evaluation procedure before the Constitutional Court. Does it make any sense that in Brussels today, the Prime Minister is negotiating with Hashim Thaci, and that the Constitutional Court has not made a statement on the DSS proposal, which concerns constitutionality and regulation, including border control, and that we require that the Constitutional Court introduce provisional measures until the final decision is reached? Serbia's constitutional court is the right address to address the issue of integrated border management. Serbia's assembly did not mandate the Prime Minister to go and negotiate with Hashim Thaci on the issue, as well as on other issues. The KIM platform has not been brought in, and should be brought into this parliament, so that with a clear platform, with clear views, by respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we will perform in negotiations, but under the auspices of the Security Council, the UN, not the EU, which is asking Serbia to recognise Kosovo's territorial integrity and that all the previous four years do everything to create an independent Kosovo, asking Serbia to participate in what is the EU's ultimate goal. That is why it is very important, I repeat, that this law once again establishes a mechanism for protecting the preservation of the state border, as provided for by the Serbian Constitution, because there is a danger, as there was a threat, because of this, although it implies in the Constitution of Serbia, a preamble has been put in place to highlight what is a danger. It is also important for this law to highlight what is a danger, and the danger is because the government has made it clear that it will implement integrated border management, because this is the most serious way of breaking and destroying Serbia's state and national interests and destroying our constitutional order.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4540	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4541	It is the constitutional principle of the Law on the Control of the State Border and the complete content of which you have spoken that is foreseen by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4542	Thank you. In the words of the People's MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4543	If foreseen, on the other hand, I have mentioned what the integrated border management regime means, that it is no longer an administrative line, but a real border between Kosovo and the rest of Serbia. That is why it is very important, by respecting the Constitution, that this member be found in this bill. Believe me, if you think it's too much, let it be, the extra head doesn't hurt. Someone would say the Preamble of the Constitution is too high, but it turns out that this constitution, with such preamble, has proved to be a dam for disintegration of the Serbian state. Had it not been for the preamble of Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS, whose pledge unanimously adopted the Serbian Constitution in 2006, many would have been freed hands to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. That is why it is very important for this bill to find this member, because believe me, especially today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4544	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4545	I don't think the amendment should be accepted in this form. In any case, it is necessary to clarify some things in order to defend the spirit of this proposal, which is very positively motivated, as we said earlier. So here, very tendingly, visions are made up that are contrary to material law, if you will, with logic and common sense. If a regulation refers to integrated border management, it refers to integrated border management. We don't have a limit to KiM, nor will we have a limit. I understand that certain MPs and parties have that vision, but it's your vision and you can't put things here like they're done and they're meant to be in some sense. They don't understand each other. What exactly am I thinking about? The state border is clearly defined by international regulations and our regulations. It has very clear features of the state border. Integrated border management exists. Integrated border management will have the Republic of Serbia, in the future, according to our neighbours. Kosovo is not our neighbor. The border means you have a national flag, a state coat of arms and a state border stone. Neither of these three elements will exist in an integrated, shared management system of the administrative transition. Free to talk, free to repeat. It's just that some people don't want to hear it. Why? Because they're building their political platform on the truth. I understand and let the competent authorities, first of all the Constitutional Court, deal with it. We don't mind that. I agree that it is necessary to conduct negotiations with a clear platform that has come to parliament or, if anything, came to the Serbian government. None of these conditions, unfortunately, are met. In that sense, I agree. However, I think it is very wrong to put such things in the same flat, by replacing thesis, by carrying out false data as given, your personal visions which, unfortunately, are very narrow. Don't introduce yourself as defense attorneys. The constitution was brought together. You know that well. You speak to the people and the parties who voted for this Constitution and made it together, as you should not speak of many other things from the past as your merits. It's simple, the Constitution is common. The highest legal act of a single country brought together. I think there was only one party against this constitution in this House. Therefore, not now, we have entered the preamble, and you have entered Article 4. How do we measure that? I think it's incorrect to abuse this session with a whole 10th subject. Not to say that the Rules of Procedure are being violated, but I didn't want to answer on that basis. The truth is, don't open up a discussion about such things. After all, you're known legalists, let's wait for the authorities to give their judgment on that. You know who the authority in this situation is. It is absolutely inappropriate to discuss migration and to discuss integrated border management towards KIM. As far as it's borderline, you gentlemen are Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4546	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, are you answering by amendment or by replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4547	Replica. You know, when there is a clear difference on such a large issue as the relationship to KIM independence, then it is no wonder that counterpart Borko Stefanovic defines the position and opposition of the DSS as a narrow point of view. You know, if our narrow position is that we didn't want to accept Eulex, who, according to Ahtisaari's plan, came to Kosovo to make an independent state, it's our narrow position. If we didn't want to accept your proposals to ask such a broad question to the International Court of Justice, so we could get an answer where your party president said it was a blow to the back, instead of suing a state for recognising Kosovo's independence, we accept that it's a narrow point of view. If we felt that the UN should resolve the issue at the Assembly that was scheduled in September 2010 on Kosovo's independence, instead you, under pressure from the EU, are withdrawing the proposal, so you are allowing the EU to conduct negotiations that was the key inspirer of Kosovo's independence, we accept that our position is narrow. This broad view of you, gentlemen, has led us so far that everything in Serbia today hurts the head of your agreements, negotiations and ways of seeing how the KIM negotiations should be conducted. So today this Serbian government, and we pointed out, came before the final act that you did the whole job on Kosovo's independence. This is your broad view, and what we accept is everything that is thought to be narrow, and in fact is the fight against Kosovo's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4548	Thank you. Mr. Petkovic, are you using the time of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4549	So, here, many would like to see the question of KIM not opened, as has not been done in the previous four years in this House. It's been discussed everywhere, just not in this House. Of course, the DSS will open that question, especially when it comes to integrated border management. That is why many do not like DSS, but we are therefore a state-run party that will always be on the side of truth and preservation of state and national interests. Gentlemen, Hashim Thaci is the one who advocates integrated border management. It's the best indication that it's the external border, or the state border. Secondly, I would like to point out only one small example of how some have defended national or national interests, and in fact, behind this was the intention of establishing good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. Here's an example. It is agreed in Brussels that there are driving tables, such as KS or RKS, that Serbs take tables that are KS and thus show that they do not recognise Kosovo independently. What was the hidden intention? The hidden intention was that by accepting one or another license plate, you must have the only driver's license from Pristina. It is the driver's license of an independent state of Kosovo. Therefore, everything negotiated makes no sense, because the ultimate outcome is that you have the driver's license of an independent republic of Kosovo, a false state. For that, you need to take out the identity card of the fake state of Kosovo. You need a copy from the citizenship of the false state of Kosovo to do this. So the ultimate instance is to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. That's exactly what this is about. The regime of integrated border management exists, for example, between Montenegro and Albania, or Montenegro and Croatia, so it is not an administrative line, but a real border crossing. And if all of this adds that the EU, which also requires the establishment of integrated border management, is that Serbia accepts Kosovo's territorial integrity, it is clear what it is. That is why we will speak openly and now and always speak, and we are waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision where it will be clearly seen that the regulations that have been adopted under the Belgrade and Pristina dialogues are anti-constitutional. By the time that decision is made, it would be good to wait, if it didn't break down in Brussels with the talks. That simply the state of Serbia first established its platform here and set goals when it comes to talks with representatives of Pristina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4550	Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4551	Based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4552	You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned. You can use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4553	So, the truth works, and not for political bickering here in the Assembly, it's completely understandable to me, and I don't want to get into the political positions of the DSS. Your attitudes are known to the public, they are repeatedly expressed in various places, they are completely legitimate and I don't see why this session has to be discussed in this way without arguments. What's the real intention and what's behind it? The knotovic argument drags this country into a abyss. So, I must say, if the topic is integrated border management, and it is not, I agree that this system, as I said, and you have listened well to me, exists between Montenegro and Albania, and there will also be between Serbia and Croatia, there will be between Serbia and Romania, there will be between Serbia and Bulgaria. It's the most normal thing to save time, resources and everything else. But you find me an integrated border crossing that doesn't have the three elements I've listed for you. Why do you always avoid saying that? Find me one of those integrated that has no flag, no coat of arms and no border stone. Find me one of them who doesn't have the so-called. No one's land in between. Are there elements on which you can call the border or not? Of course there are. What's behind it, what are the intentions? It is unfortunately that vocabulary that is very recognizable and will not do anyone any good. There are clearly written things and they are interpreted, the facts are clear. The government's regulations and conclusions are clear. This government has gone one step further from us because we are not acknowledging Kosovo's independence a big deal. We made seven agreements. The government goes on because this government knows it is the only way to go to solve problems without Kosovo being recognised as an independent state. You may disagree with that, but that's a fact. Show us the results of your reign. Show us the results of your defence of Kosovo and Metohija. Show us why Ivica Dacic has to negotiate telecoms and energy now because you didn't let these companies register with UNMIK, which you love so much. That's the result of your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4554	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4555	So, I think that the question of migrants, the question of population movements can be effectively implemented through a clear strategy, through things that have been presented somewhat in this bill and those in no way depend on whether the state policy and state decisions on Kosovo and Metohija will have an impact on this issue. Just because state policy is also based and what the current government is doing and what it has done before, it has a clear control of people passing through, goods passing through, so control is being introduced without prejudge of status issues. If someone doesn't want control over migrants and economic exchanges, if you want illegal trade, they're already talking about those who are against it, but then that's what to say. Migration can only be controlled by the fact that there's a point where you can determine someone's identity. Somebody tell me how different it can be done. Anyway, I think this is a step up and I think things need to be fixed, but in any case this country can't be incompatible with the European continent if it doesn't manage itself with problems that are something which is a modern trend, which is a very dynamic population movement. I think this ministry is still making significant efforts in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4556	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4557	Mr. Stefanovic spoke of issues that were not resolved allegedly during the DSS's leadership and results. All the issues you mentioned were raised, we raised them and discussed during the 2005-2007 negotiation process when the Western countries decided to suspend these negotiations. We wanted to put all questions on the agenda, but within the basic requirement of the then government of the Republic of Serbia that the Kosovo and Metohija issue be resolved in such a way that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. When Kosovo and Metohija illegally and counter-constitutionally declared independence, we have not been able to speak in the same way as you have started to talk, that these are status neutral issues, that we are not interested in status issues. And as far as we're concerned, that's the first question. First question we wanted and opened. Kosovo and Metohija, and you know very well what the main points of these negotiations were in 2005 and 2007 among other things, the "Telecoma" issue, all of which were in motion, but only within the framework of the Republic of Serbia. You avoided the status issue after 2008 because it was imposed on you by the EU. We can talk about anything. All questions are being touched, questions of life, but you should not have raised the question of status because you have put the basic maximum, your political belief that the EU has no alternative because you were afraid of EU pressure because you are raising the issue of status and because in the context of the status debate you are opening other issues, life issues that are also important, you have avoided them. We didn't want to accept that policy, nor did we ever want to accept it. The first question of status and, of course, all the other life issues that are within it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4558	Thank you. Mr. Petkovic, you've called again, you're wasting your time with the MPs' group again, just to let you know you've got a little left over, and there's three and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4559	It would be good for MPs who discuss this topic to get acquainted with the subject, the problem of migration, and not make mistakes like they used to make mistakes. The bottom line is that in the migration management strategy itself, in general, the definition of migration policy states that one of the basic elements of migration policy is the integrated border management regime. Because of the danger of being a border crossing on the administrative lines, I opened this issue, we wrote the amendment and proposed it to the government. So these are facts. That's what must be respected as such. Secondly, the President of the European Parliament has openly said that Serbia must recognise Kosovo if it wants to continue its path to the EU, i.e. to obtain that conditional date or already that sticker from European integration. So that's what this is about. We and how we are on the subject, and those who do not understand the subject, would do well to first read the documents and see what this is about, especially when it comes to the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, because we should also protect and defend this Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4560	Mr. Stefanovic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4561	I will try very briefly, very well we understand each other, agree and repeat for the third time, integrated border management exists as a concept, it is welcome, it is generally accepted on the European continent, it is a future that facilitates life, facilitates functioning, reduces the importance of national borders and national crossings. I repeat, this does not apply to administrative crossings. It doesn't apply to KIM, we read carefully, we know very well what we're talking about, but you're changing thesis, you're imposing a topic that has absolutely nothing to do with this proposal. I repeat, you have my word against your word, but the essence of what it says there is in the text. It says there in the text that it refers to border crossings. You're not the only ones with maybe Hashim Thaci who admit it's the state border. I wouldn't want to believe that, really. In the end, the status negotiations were conducted for a long time, they were conducted unsuccessfully, many times our government launched a failed status issue, and this government was playing with that magic word, misleading Serbian citizens to negotiate their status. The Democratic Party initially says there will be no discussion on status, not because it imposes on the EU, but because the status has proved to be on the model that you have led to is impossible to talk about, because the opposite party says the status is resolved, we are an independent state, and the Serbian side says, the status is resolved you are part of the Republic of Serbia, as we say and then you tell me, what are we going to do after those minutes and a half of the talks, do you want to write statements again? Therefore, be realistic and tell the citizens the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4562	Mr. Palalic, here you go, and we're closing a circle of replicas with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4563	You've done a very specific thing. The answer to that question, you've given well, you're an independent state and we're talking to you about life problems. That was your answer. Where are we? Sir, the statements that were made after the agreement that you had with Edith Tahiri and your statements, the media here, were – an integrated border management agreement has been reached. Mr. Defence Minister and Deputy Prime Minister here said we have a big problem and that he can't sleep, because he inherited the problem of how to implement integrated border management. And you initialed it in Brussels. These are statements made in the media. In this regard, the DSS amendment has been submitted to discuss all these issues. It's the condition you've brought us to. Your response to the Kosovo separatists' statement that we are an independent state was – we will keep it quiet, let's talk about life in Kosovo, and we will make double arches in relation to Serbs in Kosovo, when it comes to passports and license plates. We will force them into independent Kosovo, just to get a bid for European integration, a start date for negotiations, to brighten the European path that you have outlined as the interest of Serbia so as not to be endangered. That's the result of your policy. Now everything in Serbia really hurts, when your response is seen after 2008, when we say, we will never accept that Kosovo is independent, and the way we are going to solve these problems, we will solve them within the framework of the International Community, within the framework of international law, and that those who supported tomorrow after that to continue negotiations on the basis of the allegedly resolved status issue, they cut off negotiations and encouraged separatists to declare independence in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4564	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4565	I guess a large number of MPs don't know it's about adding the title of Article 6, because that's the topic we're talking about. Simply, here is now in this beautiful discussion we have heard a lot of what it says about 12.00 hours, that the ratings are great, that this is a good opportunity, that in different ways new MPs can learn how possible it is for one amendment to run large general political topics, for which we are all interested, and that in the end of the controversy we all use the fact that Minister Djukić Dejanović, who knows that you do not have to change, because if you want to allow someone to sleep easier, there are pills, different treatments, does not have to change. The amendment also reads that I fully understand both the motives and the content, and it is perfectly normal that it was proposed by both experienced MPs and quality such as Mrs Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic, but please, it is an amendment which, in our Constitution, contains high general principles in international rules and international contracts, brings them into one technical law, and that brings them to Article 5. So simply from the point of view of writing the law, this is not the place to repeat such a general principle that has already been established by higher legal acts. Why am I saying this? Because I suppose it is extremely important for all the serious MPs to be one of these, not with these definitions, so it is the amendment that we try to define differently and some of the terms that are wrongly referred to as terms here, but that one problem that our society has, in terms of the possibility of non-control of migration, is not possible, but the potential management of migration, is now defined from the point of view of the carrier, because we have not so far defined adequately and from the point of view of efficiency, because Serbia has a major problem with false asylum seekers arriving from Serbia, but even more as you know, because our borders are permeable at different levels, because they are both missing and the borders of other countries and we have a major problem, our citizens, you have seen in Loznica last year what kind of problem they have, in whole parts, that we protect fundamental human rights, and on the other hand we find a way to ensure both safety and humanity, but of course, that we avoid all the principles that are in which are in order to avoid and some of the way of the way of the way that we are in which are in which we make the way of the way of the way of the way of the way of the way that we are in which we can be in which we can be in which we do. We try only through this law and I thank everyone who tries to fix it, find a technical way, locate this matter and determine from the point of view of the law at least who will be responsible and the basic principles that we can do. Otherwise, this is no system law, and in that sense we can't expect an amendment like this. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4566	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4567	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a pretty big member, I mean Article 8. He has five views in the first position we have only tried to reintroduce that order of unity and plural, which you are using and to narrow down to what is understandable, but what was very interesting to us in this article and to what we put the accent on is that he is involved in submitting the annual report to the Commissioner and you suggest that this annual report be submitted only to the Government. What we considered to be the committee responsible for Parliament, the right place to submit the report, is precisely because it is a very important control function of parliament, which is a very sensitive area regarding serious human rights and the protection of human rights by the state. That's why our intensity was that we had this report as MPs, the right to see. We have repeatedly experienced as MPs to discuss on our committees the reports of working bodies, groups, institutions, institutions, institutions, and this is very important for the MPs, who come from certain local backgrounds. I made a mistake earlier, so I said that Vronjačka Banja, since I'm dealing with nickel, of course it's about the Mockingbird, and I've been permuting, we had a lot of problems there last year. Should the MPs know about it from the newspapers or by having a report in front of them? We believe that you should submit a report to both the government and the National Assembly, and therefore our amendment is written in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4568	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4569	The supervisory function is certainly one of the most important functions of the National Assembly and your idea of having it realised on this issue is more than appropriate and necessary. However, the Law on State Administration in Article 3 provides that the National Assembly shall oversee the work of the State Administration Authority through the supervision of the work of the Government and the members of the Government and the provision of Article 78(1). The government's rules of procedure stipulates that the government adopts an annual report on its work to the National Assembly. As you know, when we discussed in the principle of this law, it was already regulated that the Commissioner is obliged to at least once a year and whenever the Government asks for a report from all these topics that I am talking about, and a member of this same law says that whenever the National Assembly asks the Government to do so, every report that comes to it. Therefore, I think that this matter is already fully regulated, however, in a way that the Commissioner submits once a year and may report more frequently to the Government, and the National Assembly requests that report whenever it is estimated that it is necessary to analyse it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4570	Thank you. Mrs. Vojić Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4571	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Will you tell me, Madam Minister, that I can't, as a Parliamentarian, get every report that's natural to me, because I'm dealing with this matter, and it's very important to me that I have it. This is a large area, important to the state, important to the National Assembly and to the MPs, and that if I have an interest in asking someone to submit this report to me for insight, or possibly to address Rodoljub Sabic. Do you think that this is a natural path for something called the report on the work of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration Management? The most natural way is for this to come here, to the Resolute Committee on Human and Minority Rights, and that committee is seriously involved in this matter. There's no need to ask anyone, any other report. I think it's a natural path, and I don't think there's any more natural path than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4572	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4573	Will you tell me how much time I have as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4574	Fifteen minutes as an authorised representative and plus these two as a proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4575	Then you took it from the group when I was talking, because I spoke longer, but it doesn't matter. I sincerely hoped that I wouldn't have to explain this amendment and that the Commissioner and the Ministry of the Interior or those lawyers who responded to our amendments would simply see why I submitted this amendment. That's attitude four, I think, is attitude four. Otherwise, here in this Article 8, all responsibilities and many new responsibilities are listed, as well as the old ones held by the Commissioner for Refugees, and Article 4 speaks of the Commission's carrying out expert and administrative and technical tasks for the needs of the Commission for Missing Persons, to keep a unique record of missing persons in armed conflicts and related to armed conflicts in the area of the former SFRY, hence conflicts between 1991 and 1995 and conflicts in the AP KIM territory since 1998 and 2000. According to the Commission's latest missing persons report, about 13,300 people are still missing, or their families are trying to find out what happened to their family members. So that number's still big. Where did I intervene with the amendment? So, here it is said that the Commissioner is obliged to provide all services to the Commission for Missing Persons, but in this part of the attitude is later said who carries the costs of some shops and related to finding missing persons. Therefore, it shall pay the costs, the Commissioner, or the Government, shall pay the costs of the exhumation, identification, funeral equipment and transport of the remains of the identified persons to the place of burial in the Republic of Serbia, or to the border. What we propose by amendment is that this part be buried after the place of burial, then in the Republic of Serbia, to delete to the border, that the Commissioner should bear the costs of equipment and transport of remains of identified persons to the place of burial, point. Unfortunately, I know a lot of people gathered in the missing persons coalition, people looking for their loved ones, and those missing faces were born, for example. in various places in Montenegro. If you adopt this amendment, so when the family finds a missing person, or remains, and wants to bury their family plan, for example, in the White Pole, and you say this Commissioner, that Serbia will bear the costs of transport to the border with Montenegro. So you bring this family and these families into a very unpleasant position, that they will have to carry Serbia to the border, and then they will have to do these administrative jobs and seek, for example. from the Montenegrin state's authority that it pays the costs from the border with Montenegro to the place of burial. That's why I thought I wouldn't have to explain this, that those who responded to these amendments, that they wouldn't answer in that way, as they say -- you know, it's a common international practice, because it's written in all, in some international documents. I thought you'd have an understanding and I wouldn't have to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4576	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4577	What is important is that the family has never actually paid those costs, and we have incorporated the full position of the international agreement into this law, which is why the Government does not accept your amendment. In fact, the international agreement predicted that when it comes to missing persons, each state would bear the cost of exhumation, identification, funeral equipment and transportation of remains on its territory. It already works that way, really without any problems, and what is the essence, is that a family that is truly unhappy with the act itself and an event that stands as the basis of this regulation, which we are trying to edit, is never in a position to take care of itself in any segment that is mentioned. So your tendency is completely in place, but I think the international agreement has solved it and life hasn't been denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4578	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 9th amendment together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4579	Article 9(1) states that for the purposes of, therefore, the conduct of operations from its work, the Commissioner shall cooperate with the authorities of the state administration, organisations carrying out the activities of social protection, health, education and science and associations. What is the essence of this amendment? It is that we, when you are already in this position, have listed what organizations and institutions are and what their activities are, we have expanded it because we believe that it should co-operate with state authorities that are responsible for both internal affairs and diaspora and Serbs in the region. So, because it's simply in line with the bill. So it can't be that you don't think that you really need to cooperate with all these elements and that it's not enough to be just social protection and health care, so expanding this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4580	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4581	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister of Health and the dear former president of the Serbian Parliament, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I support the amendment of my colleagues from the DSS because I believe that both the Commissioner and Commissioner Cucic should have greater authority and authority, as this amendment better regulates the role of the Commissioner for Refugees in this law. I don't think there's any valid reason not to accept this amendment. I would like to remind you that the Commissioner for Refugees is performing refugee status tasks, refugee care, refugee assistance, providing conditions for their return, etc. This amendment would practically extend powers and would more precisely specify the role of the Commissioner for Refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4582	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4583	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, it is not easy to defend the amendments after which they each tell you – not accepted, not accepted. We think that we did them right, that they really have meaning, so we defend them this much, and we try to convince you to accept them. Article 10 refers to the Migration Council and refers to members of the Council. Here you mention that you have a Council on Migration regarding the province, the circuit council and the advice on migration of local self-government. Let's get this straight, we don't think the province really has room here. First of all, there's a lot of administration. We multiply it by this. If every local self-government in Serbia, with this and in Vojvodina, has its own advice, then there really is no place to multiply the new administration. As far as local councils are concerned, you say that the composition of this council should be governed by an act on its education and made up of representatives of the executive bodies, so you say – the president of the municipality, or mayor, the Centre for Social Work, the Police Administration, the Employment Service, the trustee. First time I've seen you mention the trustee, but I'll talk about it later. We believe that the Council should also be attended by representatives of educational and health institutions from that place. It's simple, we think it's a covered topic. You have experts from all areas, you have one complete, as well as members and their professional work, covered subject. With this trustee you mention, at least I don't see his status right now in this law, especially I don't see his status in relation to this advice you've given. He's a member of the Council. Does he stay in the local self-government as a completely independent body? What are his instructions? Who pays him? Those are open questions, but I'm leaving it for another story. I'd like you to accept this amendment of ours regarding members of the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4584	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4585	These two amendments, as they concern the same article and St. 3 and 4 are linked and constitute a whole. However, the legislator of the law in the reasons given for the rejection of the amendment in particular to paragraph 4 shows that he did not observe the continent because they correspond to the amendment's proposer, that it is necessary to be members of educational institutions, health institutions, whether from the territory of the AP or local self-government. No, this was just a synchronization. With these two attached amendments, we've left the possibility of that being the case. So thanks to these two amendments, we believe that the members of the Council must also be representatives of educational and health institutions from the territory and local self-government, not to remain this possibility, as you say, and say – I can decide in the work of the Council. So, no, we don't leave the possibility that we can do this, but we think that if you've already included a social work centre, i.e. representatives and representatives of the employment service, well, there should really be representatives of educational institutions and health institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4586	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4587	The minimum structure of the Council is given by the proposal of this member. Your amendment would extend that, but it does not exclude such a possibility where the need for education and health and sports and other segments of life to be included is indicated. Simply, it is given the possibility to complement itself in terms of the environment and the need of each environment, but the minimum structure of the Council is determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4588	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4589	I must say, do you, as Minister of Health, feel that health care should not be involved in this council? I can't believe it. It's an obligation. It's one of the basic human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4590	The word is made by Minister Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4591	There are municipalities where there are no single migrants, but someone will go through that municipality, so she should have some kind of minimum structure. Where there is a problem, a health problem or a number of migrants, I am convinced that a member of the Council will also be a representative of health care. So it's just a slightly different situation, and that's why it's just a proposed minimum. As Minister of Health, I think wherever there is a need, of course the health care should be involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4592	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4593	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia really has a huge experience with emigration, with refugees, with temporary displaced persons, with asylum seekers, false or economic, however, and has experience with the functioning of the Commissioner, or collective accommodation for the reception of refugees. Despite this great experience, however, he obviously did not learn anything. Some lessons have not been understood and it has not been understood to what extent migration affects economic development and how much migration is important for the rebirth, or for the further destruction of Serbia's economy. First of all, it was not a matter of being fully understood and of discussing the policy that caused this huge migration. On the other hand, when the large number of departures of young, educated people from the country and the arrival of such a large number of war-stricken citizens from the former republics of the SFRY have already occurred, everything needed to resolve the issue of these people coming to Serbia has simply not been taken care of and the issue of their housing has not been resolved by collective centres and the issue of functioning of the Commissioner has not been resolved. Unfortunately, collective centres still exist after 10 years. Unfortunately, many citizens of this country continue to live on these collective centres because they do not have the opportunity to leave them and to provide themselves with some existence, at least a minimum quality, to survive all the horrors they've been going through. There is also this solution in the proposed law that does not give some hope to see to the end how much it takes for economic asylum seekers to do the right thing in this new problem. If nothing else, unless the climate of economic development and economic growth is already created, allow people to find their existence in Serbia, at least help them when they are forced to return to an agreement on readmission from the EU countries and to help them in terms of providing them with some clothes, shoes or such by the Commissioner or to allow them to spend some reasonable time at the collective centre. You will allow, it is indeed the least this country can do in its own interest and in the interest of those people returning from the EU. We are all aware of how much white Schengen is in danger, precisely because we do not have an adequate answer to what to do to reduce the number of economic asylum seekers leaving Serbia, and we do not even have an answer to what to do when these people return to Serbia and leave those collective centres, where 15 days when they are staying, indeed in this time period, in no way to get their hands on or to provide themselves. Then we will have the opportunity to try again to find some existence in EU countries, and we will launch a new wave of economic asylum seekers and so on. This law was necessary. However, it is obvious that it does not give the right answers, does not give the right solutions, and then we will have opportunities, most likely in the near period of time, to have this law on the agenda again and to discuss some changes and additions. This law came to the Assembly's agenda after 20 years, when all these migrations began in such an extent that they also caused these consequences today that we cannot solve. If there was so much waiting for the law, it could have waited a little longer and had been approached by a more reasonable way of creating a law for such serious matter as migration. Migrations in some ways also touch the issue of human rights, and to a large extent some economic rights that all citizens of Serbia should have. Unfortunately, unless we have the right approach to address the issues of these economic, or false asylum seekers, as presented in public, we will be able to violate human rights, because human rights provide, among other things, for free movement and within a state whose citizens and free border crossings. So, any way that we choose to solve this big issue of people leaving this country to find an economic future, we have to make sure that the needs for citizens living in Serbia are harmonised, that they find their existence here, and that none of these needs are a trigger for breaking fundamental human rights. All of this requires far more serious access than the one presented by this bill. Therefore, our amendment applies to only one segment of this approach to our citizens who are forced to return to Serbia after their asylum request has been rejected in one of these European countries. For this reason, I don't see why the amendment was rejected, because it really refers to only one small and tiny form of compassion with all these citizens of Serbia. So it only applies to clothes and shoes, which is absolutely necessary when someone does not know how they will survive the day in which they are. I think Serbia finally has two things to solve. It's one thing for him to study his past and understand it to the end and find a way to move on. Whatever law we have here in this House, we are constantly spinning around whether we know where we've been, what we've been doing, where we're going and what we want. Thus, no matter how small this amendment may be, it is through it that the entire policy of this government is being broken in terms of state leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4594	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4595	The tendency of the legislator is, in fact, something that is the same for each of us, that at the collective centre, whoever finds himself spends as little as possible, as short as possible, and to make it maximum in terms of documents, health, social, whatever needs. We have one of the statistics that is still sad for people who live in 20 existing collective centres, but who deserves to especially thank the enthusiasm of people who have worked for many years in the Commissioner, because we used to have 700 collective centres. This is why it is important for the Commissioner to continue to be responsible with the same tendency to solve the problems of the transitors of the collective centre in a more efficient and better way, but sometimes he will need a "Red Cross", once a Centre for Social Work, once a health service. That's why the legislator has this way of formulating this attitude. That is also why the government has not accepted your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4596	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4597	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the rejected amendments, as before. I don't know how much we put up with it. Never mind. It is now becoming quite clear to me from the way you defend these amendments that in fact the legislator is the Commissioner for Refugees. He's been reviewing our amendments. He has given himself too much authority, and there is no need for the congregation to control him. It's all crystal clear to me now. I would not be able to accept that he himself is making decisions on whether or not he is going to close and open collective centres. I don't think that's really right. These are too much authority for any man in this government, for a much higher official than the commissioner. I believe that's what we wrote in the amendment, that the commissioner can only propose to the government what needs to be done on this matter, to open or close collective centres, and that the government makes a decision on all this. Of course, the commissioner does not put up with such a proposal here either, but the Commissioner does. I guess here we're talking about some institutions, we're not talking about people who have such and such rights to do such a thing. We have an institution. This is the Commissioner proposing to the government, the government is making a decision. That's what we think is a normal path. Otherwise, we think that what you just said, Serbia is a burdened area with more asylum seekers, because we are on the road between African countries, Middle Eastern countries crossing this area through Bulgaria, Romania, Greece and further towards the EU, Hungary and EU countries. That is why we believe that only in such circumstances will we do nothing in this country if one man makes all the decisions and asks no one and no one controls him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4598	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4599	Just for the sake of information, the asylum centres are opened by the government and it is a completely different matter and other content, and this issue is regulated by another law. Mrs. Sanda Raskovic, who has been dealing with this issue, probably makes a distinction, the difference between one and the other, and may be that at a time when she was most responsible, she also sends appropriate solutions, giving appropriate solutions and sending appropriate messages, so that one can be combined. I think this law really is one step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4600	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4601	Thank you. If you're telling me to talk to Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić about it, I've already done it. She also believes that what you are giving yourself excessive authority is not something that is done in democratic countries. Of course, I mentioned asylum seekers, and of course it refers to the collective center. Why would I be surprised if the commissioner asks to open and close such a center tomorrow? If you're giving him all the rights, I don't think it's working. Your answer is absolutely not in favor of what's written here, but in favor of what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4602	Thank you. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4603	Article 14 speaks of the integration of persons who have been granted the right to shelter. Here in Article 14, we have two positions, but this article is not mentioned and is not talking about already adopted strategies, strategies adopted by this country, where a lot of these things are regulated and later elaborated through action plans. I believe that even in some law that is so universal, there should not be a sentence – a person who is granted the right to shelter, social, cultural, economic life is ensured, in line with the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia. And for a general law like this, it's a little too much. What did we want with this amendment? We wanted to remind the promoter, and this is also in the Law, that in the context of our opportunities, and in line with the Migration Management Strategy and other strategies, there will be conditions for inclusion. We want to show you that there are very important documents that regulate this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4604	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4605	Now we have moved to the law's head where it is said that the Commissioner, as I understand from the debate in principle, will run a single system of collection, organisation and exchange of data. Or, more simply, the Commissioner will run a single database when it comes to migration management. And in the debate, in principle, I said that in this law, it's not clear who's going to run that database. It's pretty clear how they're getting together. This is about networking of all state authorities, institutions, etc., how they will be obliged to submit data to the Commissioner, and regularly and exceptionally, when requested. We all know how to collect, collect data. However, I said the same thing in principle, I think the Commissioner, as she is today, has no capacity to build and manage such a serious database. I suppose Mr. current Commissioner is telling you how it will work or how the Commissioner will be reorganised, that he will have a different systemization, etc. It's something we also don't see from this law. You have nothing to say about a new organisation of business, how many new people will be hired here. If you have an ambitious plan like this, then you'll have to increase the number of employees. Not to mention, in the end, as is the case, and most of the bill discusses the financial needs for this law to be implemented. There is neither a word about you increasing the number of employees nor how much financial resources you need for this. In particular, to return to this amendment, we wanted it to be stated in the last position that the protection of data covered by the single system is being carried out in accordance with the Data Protection Act, and this law and other laws governing that area. We wanted it to be really highlighted in this law, the Data Protection Act, because it's a very sensitive population and, unfortunately, very often there are people in these populations and victims of human trafficking, so it needs to be taken special care of. I'll just add one more sentence. Why am I skeptical that the Commissioner will be able to create a valid database that will be updated, which will be networked and which will serve as a source of timely and accurate data? Because I know that for sure in the last ten years, good information, i.e. a good network of data is being created when it comes to educational institutions in Serbia. This has not yet been achieved in Serbia today, and this is the networking of all schools, not to mention how much money has been invested and we still haven't made that network. That's why I think this is something that won't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4606	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4607	Article 16 does not really refer to personal data. The data referred to in Article 16 of this Act are a set of numerical data on migrations that are relevant for the management of migration. Absolutely refers to statistics, and that's why it's said, and in accordance with the law, considering exactly what you're talking about. Absolutely refers to no single personal characteristic, or mark of any person.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4608	The word is Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4609	Thank you for the interpretation, but rather than having these general numerical and statistical data, a lot of personal data will pass. There's nothing to talk about, and that's why we thought we should apply to the Data Protection Act. How are we gonna collect all that if we don't know that individual data?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4610	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4611	Anyone who collects data is obliged to respect all legal acts. Simply, there should be a suggestion on the education of those who work on these data-gathering jobs, but I'm saying it refers to statistics, not personal data. It is known how statistics are collected and how those who do so must respect all laws, including the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4612	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4613	Thank you. It is an important topic, given that it is handling personal data and possible use and abuse, as well as for a population that is not migrant or asylum or refugee, a very important topic. For this reason, I ask both the promoter and all of us to pay attention to this Article 16 and give the Serbian public a clear answer, so that there is no doubt and dilemma. Therefore, I ask Mrs Djukić Dejanovic, to answer the question quite clearly – does a member who is without amendments, as proposed in the text, leave any space for unauthorized use, abuse or handling of personal data of members of a migrant, asylum or any other population whose rights are otherwise subject to the law? The answer is also important due to the validity of the Personal Data Protection Act, for which Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic is responsible, but it is even more important to remove any suspicion that any word, part of the member we are currently discussing, leaves any legal possibility for personal data to be used or misused, i.e. to include statistical processing, creating a profile of immigrants and asylum seekers and what otherwise involves statistical processing. If you could explain it a little bit more widely for people who are following the debate on this law, and they are not quite close to terms -- statistics, personal data, who is the authority to take data and what happens to those data once they are, if they can be, asked by members of the migration population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4614	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4615	The most decadent response and clarification of Article 16 is actually contained in Article 17, which says: "The data of Article 16 of this Law are a set of numerical data on migration, which are relevant for the management of migration. "So, the ministries, respecting the law, supply exclusively statistics and that is the only way to explain and answer. I think it's a good thing we had this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4616	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 18 and 18. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 19 and 19. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is an international MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4617	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, I don't know if I should be ashamed that I've written so many bad amendments and unwittingly, but there's one that they've accepted. This last amendment in Article 19 refers to time limits for the adoption of regulations, i.e. sublegal acts. We felt it was necessary to change those regulations into sublegal acts. What we have particularly responded to are deadlines. What's cancer of our early laws is that the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts are extended, that some sublegal acts come out in 36 months, some 48 months, and some don't show up today. The newest problems are the training of future drivers that cannot be regulated, and in doing so we had a law that was passed two years ago, it shows that we are right when we say that you reduce that 12-month deadline to six months. We think it's an optimal deadline, because if all of this you wrote in the law that you can, all of the powers you've taken over, achieve, then it's natural that you can write sublegal acts in six months. Otherwise, without these sublegislative acts, the laws are inapplicable. Please, so that we can apply the law as a state, because this law is an emergency procedure given to the Assembly, so that you, by emergency procedure, do what you do. Otherwise, we haven't solved the issue from the previous amendment – what data? To process them together, we need to know what data we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4618	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4619	Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I support this amendment to reduce this 12-month period to six months. Maybe it should be shorter. I will remind you of the maintenance of the fourth European Legal Forum on 25 September this year and the presentation of Ksenija Globokar, which mentioned public debate, draft laws, regulations, sublegal acts and how this is handled in the Republic of Slovenia. I think the six-month deadline is quite appropriate for such an important law to be detailed and to be passed under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-07-0.u4620	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on medicines and medical funds National MP Milica Vojić Marković, 23 October 2012, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 1. Since this amendment was the only amendment to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal FOR A DAVENATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE USE OF THE BANK OF SERBIA A.D. NEW NOW, "VOLKSBANK" A.D. BELGRADE, VOVODIAN BANK A.D. NOW, SOCIETE GENERALE BANK SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE, UNICREDIT BANK SRBIA A.D. BEOGRADE, AMSTERDAM TRADE BANK NETHERLANDS AND DEUTSCHE BANK AG LONDON PURPOSE OF THE PUBLICABLE OF THE PUBLICIAL SERBIAGAS, A. The Rules of Procedure, in voting day, decide on a bill in general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Thursday, 8 November 2012, starting at 11.00 a.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you.
