ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6558	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since it is Thursday, we have the application of Article 287 and I ask the MPs to apply for a question. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6559	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have been witnessing the recent release of information to the public regarding the business of individual Serbian clubs. The money spoken of and debts are rudely large, and no financial picture of any Serbian sports club has ever been established. They don't know their own structure, they don't know how to operate. Debts are mentioned, according to public enterprises, and yet to be greater, in praise of themselves and their business board members, directors, trainers always point out that they have managed to secure very high sponsorship contracts and funds that are being paid to them by just the public enterprises, the republican public enterprises. These funds, these republican public enterprises are not the funds of the directors of these companies, but are the money of all Serbian citizens. Therefore, I would ask the government, the citizens of Serbia must, have the right to know how they spend their money so that the government of the Republic of Serbia educates a working body that will collect the following data. How much money have public enterprises in the last decade on the basis of sponsorship contracts and donors paid into the accounts of Serbian sports clubs? What is the debt of sports clubs to the state, so their unmistakable obligations as well as their debts to the same public enterprises that finance them through sponsorship contracts and donors? Then we could see how many hospitals, schools, kindergartens we could build for money that was unwittingly thrown into the well with minimal results that justify investment, secretary generals, board members, managers, sports directors and other officials in our sports clubs. The biggest problem seems to me in the last decade is that, and I am not talking about the 1990-2000 period because it is the darkest part of Serbia's modern history, and it is not only about sports but only about the problematic political situations that we have found ourselves in. That's why I'm saying that the biggest problem in the last decade is that there's no responsibility for sports failures. For a few months, I was a member of the Management Board of the Fighter Football Club in Cačka, 2004, when fans wore Q Klux Klan uniforms. I resigned because I felt that every vandalism and every abuse of sport should be reacted. Of the other people who are in sports clubs, and there have been unkind scenes and unfortunate events, I have not seen their reactions, adequate to all those problems or demands in solving the problems ahead of them or in this case in front of the whole society. Sports should be fun and a good time. Sports could also be the pride of a nation, it could also be a very important economic branch, economic potential. So if we continue to act irresponsiblely, we will have everything that we already have in the continuity of further destruction. There is another or perhaps another better way if the state already shows incompetence in the past decade to deal with everything that is bad in sports and abuses when spending money coming into sports clubs, to define ourselves by investing in mass sports. Children deserve to have the best possible conditions of growing up, the best trainers, the best terrains, the rinks, the athletic trails, the pools where they will develop spirit and body. Are we facing a decision to leave the club sport funding and that the state simply says that it is not able, as it has not been in the past decade to deal with abuses, with vandal behaviour of fans, with everything that in the modern European country, the EU country, which my ideal is trying to Serbia, is not possible because there people go with their families to watch sports manifestations leading small children without worrying about their safety. I pray once again and appeal to responsible people, and there are also in this government, that once and for all we break this decade of practice, the practice of last decade that there is no control and that there is no obligation if someone invests in you to justify these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6560	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go. I thank Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Mr Selakovic's Justice Minister, does he know that the Face is forbidden? Is it known to him that it was an organization that had to break up its work because of a proven dissipation of religion, national and racial hatred, and that it continued to organise meetings, has activities, shares propaganda material, has activists and that even at some of these meetings, the minister himself participates? It's an organisation that put together a list of Jews in Serbia a few years ago. It is an organisation that has made, now famous, a declaration to Serbian enemies with all the plans that these enemies should be removed from Serbia. We now have obvious continuations of the organisation's tradition, these are the Serbian People's MovementOur 1389, which make up a list of unwanted NGOs, a list of unwanted media, and I expect that it is only a matter of time before a list of unwanted citizens who, according to their vision, should not have room in our country. The minister obviously doesn't care about these activities of the organizations mentioned. It does not prevent him from working with them, from participating in the meetings these organisations are holding and the issue also for the Constitutional Court - what should happen is that these organisations are finally banned and how can later be ensured that their work is banned, not just deleted from the register of organisations in our country. It is only a matter of moments thanks to the Law on Amnesty adopted thanks to the decision of the Court of Appeal when these organizations will start working on the list of undesirables to begin and to be implemented, given that the consequences of the Law on Amnesty are such as to see, that apparently hatred, that violence against undesirables in this country has no consequences. That is why my question is how the minister intends to ensure that decisions of the Constitutional Court are implemented in this regard and how he thinks to ensure that these phenomena are no longer present. It's my suggestion, at least for him to stop working alone with such organizations that he would send a message that those who make lists not wanted in our country can't function, or at least they can't have the understanding of the state. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6562	We've had various justice ministers over the past 20 years who have been in government, who have conducted extremist politics, hate speech, crimes, etc. I don't remember them participating in meetings with organizations that conduct such policies. Now we've got one, I'm continuing to question my colleague Jerkov, and I have no question for such a minister. I have a question for the government, there's a law prohibiting a public gathering in front of parliament, this was an illegal rally the other day. The legality of this meeting gives, behold, the Minister of Justice, a part of the organizations that make lists of NGOs and the media for the shooting, so I ask Mr Dacic, this is his minister, did NGOs talk to Thaci, did the media editors negotiate with Thaci? What does that look like, Mr. President of the Assembly, that the minister didn't lead them before the government, why did he bring them before the Parliament? Has this assembly adopted the Kosovo Platform and what do we have to do with the negotiations? Today, European Milvan cancelled the Kosovo Committee, and it was supposed to be, as his people call it, on the IBM agenda. He didn't get the state's leadership position, and in the paper, they filled the papers this morning. Is it like one policy for Brussels now, and inside we pump extremists. The extremists are on Jarinj, what do you think? You bring extremists here in front of the assembly, and they will be peaceful and good there. What's this about? The question for the government, we will do what we can to initiate, therefore, an initiative to replace the minister, is not enough for us, I hope that colleagues from the League, all those who are considered opposition, and some from the ruling majority who do not want Serbia to return in this way to the 1990s and who sincerely wants to get that date for the start of negotiations, will support that initiative. What does it look like to demonstrate in front of the assembly with the lawyer of assassin Zoran Djindjic, I mean the Legion? Can we expect, since the president has somehow trained us in sudden amnesty, something like that? So the government has to fence itself with its minister and therefore ask the Prime Minister if the government is going to say in some form that it is not standing and that it does not support the list-making organisations. The government can't shut up, you can't run European politics, and you can't do everything in the country, how can I say, that support for European policy is falling. That's how your government's support goes down, that two-faced, and that hypocrisy, for internal use, and now we're a little patriot, so we don't sell anything and we don't betray anything, and we're out there being cooperative and it can't end well, and that's how your predecessors did, let's go to the barricades, let's get off the barricades. You deceive citizens from the north of Kosovo, you don't tell them the truth, you avoid talking about it, and today there was an opportunity on the Committee, plus a minister of justice, a government member participates with extremists in public gatherings. The question is very clear whether the government will be fenced against what the minister of justice is doing. That's the first question. The second question, that is for you, how did you allow a public meeting to be held in front of Parliament at the time of the meeting, when it was not allowed?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6563	The word has Dr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6564	Dear People's MPs, Parliament Speaker, yesterday, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic told our public extensively about what he was talking to Mrs Catherine Ashton and Hashim Thaci in Brussels. He made it clear that a deal was made regarding customs, half-way, but some were made, in connection with ID cards, that Serbs would not have to change their ID cards to freely cross this border crossing. They won't have to change traffic tables, driver's licenses, etc. He explicitly pointed that out, and he mentioned some more topics. In a statement from the same meeting issued by the EU foreign policy chief's office, none of this is mentioned. In that statement you have extensively what was said. It has been said about integrated border management and the transition to be made, that Thaci has made multiethnic police to protect Serb monuments of culture and worship, that dialogue will continue, that a certain link will be educated through liaison officers and other things, but no mention of any ID cards, customs, or driver's license is made, all that Mr Dacic said as some sort of oral guarantee for Serbs in Kosovo. This causes one great suspicion and suspicion in the case and nature of the talks that were conducted in Brussels the day before. This finally justifies that demand for people who have been protesting for 48 hours at the uncle's winter, in Jarinj, that they need not only oral promises, but also written guarantees. The statement from Catherine Ashton's cabinet is the best confirmation that they're right about their insistent demands. They've said that so far they've been fooled by a lot of people. We know what all the fraud was and what was going on and about the 2011 protest, etc. My request is that this matter be cleared, so the government comes to parliament with a clear report on what was agreed yesterday, and what was agreed during previous meetings with Thaci and that the debate was conducted. It is no longer easy to conclude and make agreements, as was the case at the time of Borko Stefanovic's negotiation. These were some non-binding papers, which would say "non-peipr" in the diplomatic dictionary, which was later introduced by the government into the legal system through its regulations, and these regulations are now subject to the Constitutional Court's assessment. We've come this far. It continues in the same way, and this is the subject of my question, as long as this is how it will work and when Parliament will be informed of what has been done. We have learned today that an appointment of the KIM Committee has been cancelled, and the reason is even justified, because a Serb representative from Kosovo is expected to come to the interview, but it is not justified that it is the second meeting to be organised since the constitution of this parliament. It could have been organised last week, before last, we had time to discuss, it wasn't just yesterday and the day before it was difficult and dangerous in Kosovo. A new issue of information is being opened, a new issue of the role of parliament in the issue of -- Serbia's survival within its borders. I don't know if it's alarming enough for you, but I will repeat, Serbia has been at risk within its borders, and this parliament acts as if that's not the case, and that's why it has to be debated in this House, otherwise the same thing that's happened to the Serbian parliament since the beginning of the multilaterals, both in 1991 and 1996, in October 2000, the people went out on the street and stood in front of this parliament to protest, because they have no information about what's going on and because they disagree with the government's policy. That's what's happening today. A meeting of several days ago was organised by Serbian students, five student universities, the organizers of the Serbian State University, came here in front of the Assembly in a huge number and said what they think of The Hague tribunal and the gods as well as KIM. Don't be surprised if that movement grows, I'm always up for institutional action, and that's why I'm saying this. If she doesn't, if the state sells out like that, and we don't even know it, then she's gonna have to do so. "open Parliament", a street, so gathering in front of this parliament. That was the other day, not something else that was also said here. I've asked clear questions, please give clear answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6565	Just a short answer for Mr. Ostojić, since I checked, just to be sure. The President of the National Assembly has no authority to approve or prohibit any meeting. Any approval or maintenance of the meeting gives approval, or prohibits, of the City of Belgrade, the regional authority for a certain municipality, so that the President of the Assembly cannot approve or prohibit any maintenance, any expensive, or earlier, or will be able to do so by law in the future. The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6566	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask and ask a question to the Assembly and the competent services of the Assembly about the incident that took place yesterday in this high house and the statement of the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, Milosovic. The public, as well as MPs and the entire medical profession, is limited by such one conduct, especially as Professor. Milosović abused his position in two ways. First, he misused the fact that on the Committee on Health and Family, he broke the Rules of Procedure and brought the parents of the sick children, who presented their problems. It's a precedent that shouldn't have happened, because if we introduced such a practice, since we have a lot of dissatisfied people to help, the order would probably be from the congregation to Slavia. It is an abuse of the position of the chairman of the Health and Family Committee. Second, yesterday, the letter that was made by Professor Milosavljevic waved here in the Assembly, he deceived both MPs and the public, because that letter was addressed through his name to the Committee on Health and Family, i.e. A committee that solves patients' problems with certain health problems. It is not personally addressed to him to deal with it, but to the Committee on Health and Family, so it is a deception that he is in charge of bringing it out publicly, regardless, and even though I say that it has been violated both the medical code and the code of ethics and the broken legal advances, which do not allow the presentation of the names and last names of patients who are ill, with their diagnosiss and the problems they have. Since time allows me, I see that here are some questions about the legality and legitimacy of the rally that took place the other day outside the Serbian Parliament. I wonder, as an MP for this assembly, whether the issue asked by Mr Ostojic is the continuation of his party's policy on Kosovo's independence. Yeah, that's right. You can laugh. Do you think it is necessary for this assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to agree with the UN tribunal's decisions? This way, what you're saying, you agree with those decisions, which is inadmissible, absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6567	There's only one technical problem. You can't ask yourself a question. You said, "I wonder... ". So you have to ask a question to a certain government body, and of course you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6568	I'm not setting myself up. All right, all right. I didn't expect to get a round of applause from the LDP for this, and I figuratively said that I was asking myself, but do I still ask the question, does the party in question consider that the government of the Republic of Serbia, this assembly, agrees with a shameful verdict issued in The Hague, Ramush Haradinaj and Croatian generals, who expelled 250,000 people and 2,500 people? I think it's a question like this, I might even bear the consequences, embarrassingly, Mr. Ostojic and LDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6569	Please, Mr. Mijatovic, don't use offensive expressions and don't say such things, because it really ruins the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't want to be Mr. Milosavljevic's lawyer, I talked to him about the subject that we started yesterday, I want to tell you that it's about a patient who is Mr. Milosavljevic's patient and I think that this is what I'm saying just because I don't want today's session to mark the questions that we've already, I think, said enough yesterday. I think we all agreed that these cases would not be in the future, but I honestly believe that Mr. Milosavljevic did not have a bad intention to offend any angle. I think we cleared that up yesterday, thoroughly enough. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6570	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Amnesty Act on 8 November, and a number of people who were on trial for various crimes were found at the time. In recent days, I've been getting complaints from a number of citizens that they have cases in their families, among friends, frequent cases of burglary of apartments and houses, so in that sense I want to ask the question of the Minister of Interior and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to ask for information, did this law affect that? In the election campaign, we had from the biggest ruling party, the SNS, a promise that such a law would be passed and its application that began a little less than a month ago showed that those convicted of serious crimes are now at large. Is the explanation, which was given at the time of the adoption of this law, that it will be much easier to fund and maintain prisons in Serbia that the state cannot deal with this problem differently, be the right for citizens who remain without their property, and are at risk of security at the same time? Will the state be able to compensate these citizens for the damage they suffer under this law? Who is responsible and who will take responsibility for it? The question for the prime minister, too, is what is the percentage of the increase in burglary in Serbia since the application of the Amnesty Law? The second issue concerns the postponement of the session of the Kosovo Committee, the issue for the head of the Kosovo Office and the foreign minister and the prime minister, why is the session for Kosovo delayed again? When will the ruling coalition take responsibility for the negotiations it holds, for the agreements it has signed? When will there be a platform, which has been promised to us at the Committee's last session, because I really think that such an unserious relationship to such an important subject, has really gone too far? Please, as soon as possible, MPs, especially members of the Kosovo Committee, will receive information on all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6571	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6572	It's a business thing. I think a member of the 106s was violated during a speech from a previous colleague... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6573	I'm sorry, you can't do business. You can't, unfortunately, in this part by hurting the Rules of Procedure. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. (Bojan Đuric, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Mr. Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6574	I don't want to talk about this, there's no reason to be scared. You sort of explained what happened yesterday and all the activities, Mr. President, which you later, in collaboration with a colleague who was president of the Health Committee, did. I agree with that, but I suggest that, in accordance with Articles 107 and 118. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let's do one more thing, at least remove some negative effects. Please, by your decision or through the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, who takes care of the stenographic notes and the minutes, order that it be deleted from the minutes and the rock of the names mentioned yesterday, so that that information is not yet available to the public. As you know, they have recently been published on the Open Parliament website, even if we can remove that part of the damage. That's my request.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6575	Thinking in the same way, I gave the Office a warrant to obtain the opinion of the information protection commissioner, Mr Sabic, in order to do so, in accordance with the law, to see if we could protect the information in such a way, or something that was spoken in the session of the Assembly to hide it in some way from the public. In principle, I agree with you, and I think that would be a good way to do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6576	I'm reporting again maybe a little past the Rules of Procedure, but I think the same effect can be caused by the gentleman who spoke like that here yesterday, Mr. Milosavljevic. Namely, there is a right to approve what is said. I think he can put those names away or what happened. If not, then I agree with your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6577	I refer to the Service of the National Assembly to carry out this correction in accordance with the law. We're going back to work. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6578	Thank you. The chairman, respected counterparts and fellow MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia passed three health laws that envision significant reforms in this sector. These laws solve, in my opinion and in my colleagues' opinion, important issues in the domain of health care. Whoever of you lived outside Serbia, lived and worked in some Western countries, knows and will agree with me that there is no ideal health system. What you see in the shows you watch, in the movies, general hospitals in America are in a much bigger crowd, in much more chaos, in much bigger problems than you see in us. The private hospitals you see in those same movies are made up. Doctors drive "ferries" and "lamburginia", but we return to Serbia and return to reality. Serbia's government has come to an enormous debt. The first law of these three has been tried, and before us is the thought and debate that this debt will return and the health care system will begin to function properly. This found state that we have, above all, cannot allow patients to be given quality health care in accordance with the law and the Constitution, because there is no medical means and medicines. On the other hand, we won't be able to pay any new debts unless this debt is settled by this law. What's important is that centralised through these laws enables savings to be even up to 20% to 40% through these major public procurements of the state. What is important is to point out that local health institutions will not be able to borrow more and provide the necessary resources themselves, but to deliver plans to the ministry and as much supply as possible will certainly be obtained even smaller. First of all, it is the introduction of financial discipline into the health system. Many of you pointed out a health failure, corruption. I'm sure with this set of laws, corruption will come to a minimum, because I don't think that can ever be rooted out. What is important as data, for example, in 2012 was more than 250 days long. This set of laws reduces debt in 2013 to 150 days, in 2014 to 120 days and in 2015 to 90 days. This is an important stimulant, and this is what we force private pharmacies to make contracts with the fund and get them into co-operation and get them into the state system. On the other hand, health management, local hospitals management, health homes, clinical centres take much more responsibility. I would briefly, since my colleague Dušan has raised some questions, give some concrete answers. If we adopt this law, what happened to me at the Clinical Center in Nis, which is that we have a waiting list of 1,500 people to treat cataracts. Those who know little about medicine know what I'm talking about. We've got 400 lenses, we don't have any consumables. There's no way to get spending money, because the company that's supplying us with it is in a blockade. If supplies were made through the state, this list of 1,500 people would be removed in two halls for two or two months and a half months, so that no patient would complain, either of the MPs from southern Serbia. Yesterday morning before I got here, I had a meeting with the pathology people and all the findings will be maximum speedy and the list will be removed. I'm back on the law yesterday, again on the potential of that if the state takes over the supply, then for the management of health care facilities, it does its job. Yesterday, which was awkward to me first, I replaced the director of the technical service because he didn't report the end of the third machine. We've got three radiation devices in Nis, so we're rescheduling patients with air therapy. If the state were to buy the machine, deploy correctly regionally, provide quality service, there would be no such thing. On Friday, I replaced the director of a clinic. On Friday, there was more than 200 patients in the infirmary. He didn't give me a good answer, which is why there's a traffic jam, and the man's been out of office since yesterday. The purpose of the first law is to provide all medications, all medical means, that this business is not covered by the management of the facility, and ours remains to work on raising the quality of services to patients. The other two laws in this set need to create conditions to protect the most vulnerable categories of population and establish a quality financial system, which is primarily sustainable. What is important is that the amendments in Article 1 extend the maximum circle of persons who have new forms of health care. On the other hand, the share of all of us in the fight against cancer is increasing. Here, above all, is thought of scringing, early cancer detection. All these screening methods will be prepared by the Ministry. It is thought of breast cancer, uterine cancer and colon cancer, patients are treated with diseases. The third part, which is an important segment of this law, is that single parents with children up to seven years of age, according to a member of the Constitution, receive what is guaranteed to them by the Constitution. In Article 2, which she was talking about yesterday, and my colleague is talking about extending power to the provinces, cities and municipalities. Why does this matter? This is primarily important if we are talking about houses or areas that have clinical centres, there are four clinical centres, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, by expanding the powers of institutions whose founders of local self-government are getting much better treatment for patients. Local founders will not only be able, unlike earlier techniques, to obtain and purchase equipment, but will ensure that patients do not burden the entire health care center before they reach the clinical center. When I say - they burden, I don't mean negatively, but they create crowds and patients can't finish quality with a review. In those areas where there are no clinical centres, where there are health centres and health centres, if the founder is local self-government, that institution gets the opportunity to renovate according to plan, rebuild equipment and work better. Just before I said that through the centralized procurement, first of all in Article 6, the establishment of a public procurement administration of health institutions from the network plan, we get what? We're saving 20 to 40% of the purchase price of the drug. It is important to point out that the purchase prices are drugs. We're getting cost control and that I'm from Nis, which I know, if this year I've had two to three thousand cataracts operated on, my plan next year will be three thousand cataracts again and the state will provide me with lens and consumable material. Three thousand patients will be operated. There won't be an outflow in private offices. Of course, this makes it easier for another part of the story mentioned by some fellow MPs to clear out who made this debt and that since the law was passed, each of us in health management has been carrying his responsibility and carrying part of the burden, to be ready to fit if he makes a failure. Article 8 proposes to regulate the area of establishment of health care institutions' human resources plans. It's related to the network plan, and that means that if the local environment or my clinical center in Nis has the need for child neurologists, the need for anesthesiologists, the need for radiologists or cardio surgeons, is mine to deliver it to the Ministry, to bring the Ministry to the conclusion of this, together with Batuta, to coordinate the position and to go into line up the personnel plan. You know for a fact that when someone enrolls in medicine, until they become a sub-specialist, it takes 14 and a half years from the day of enrolment in the medical school in Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac or anywhere. Unlike us doctors, whoever entered the rights and economy after four years is a graduate lawyer or economist, after a year has a lawyer's exam or some specialist exam from the economy and after two years can be the president of the court. It's a little longer at the doctor's, and it's taking a little longer. It is important that, through the equipment procurement plan, medical equipment in Serbia is deployed so that if someone in the local center is strong enough and powerful enough to buy a magnetic resonance or buy a scanner for some local health home or local hospital and there is no accompanying surgical hall that the patient who has been diagnosed will be referred to the surgical room. With the network plan, the correct, good and regional network plan, by deploying or introducing standards such as in America, the 100,000 inhabitants go through seven scanners, we come up with figures that are important to all of us. What is important in this whole set of laws is that the Ministry has formed a republican expert commission for each particular area of medicine and that, for each issue, both on procurement and on the human resources plan and everything else, it is mandatory to seek the opinion of the Republic's expert committees in which the most prominent experts are proposed totally outside the parties, proposed by the director or management of local community management, a very large number of academics are there. These commissions will give their opinion on any matter related to the plan, personnel, procurement, with which the ministry will go towards the Fund. The SPS parliamentary group will support a set of health laws in the voting day. We'll see if there are any amendments on the resolution board. Anything that is quality proposed will be supported and I expect a large number of MPs to understand and understand that this is an attempt, a good attempt, by this ministry and this government to introduce order into Serbia's health system which is seriously shaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6579	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6580	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have found a lot of problems as a health minister, many inherited problems, and you are obviously trying to stabilize health opportunities in general with this set of laws. A 13-and-a-half billion debt has really threatened to bring down the health system and this bill to take over health institutions and turn public debt, you have at this point managed to ensure the sustainability of the health system, the functioning of the health system in general, and so I am the survival of the wholesaler.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6581	I apologize, Mrs. Filipovski, for interrupting you, a little technical confusion. Do you speak as deputy chief or as first speaker?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6582	As deputy chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6583	Then everything's fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6584	It is obvious that this proud knot could not otherwise be solved but rather on the burden of taxpayers and we hope that the dynamics of reconciliation of these obligations, as foreseen by the bill, will improve the health situation in the next period. On the other hand, it will not put too much burden on the budget, which is restrictive for 2013. Also, there remains hope that in the time that is yet to come the overall economy and the economic environment will occasionally improve, resulting in a better situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus a lower burden on taxpayers. According to research and scales, health care in Europe is the worst in Serbia. All those involved in these research must know that health investments are the smallest in Europe, from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Healthy citizens are the cornerstone of the future of every society and the development of every country. In this respect, the health care system cannot be seen as consumption, but rather as an investment. The objectives that aim to achieve the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act improve opportunities in health care itself. In some ways, I expect that in the next period this scale, when it comes to Serbia, will rise to some higher level and that we will not be a country that is in the last place of health, primarily because the number of endangered categories that you cover by this bill is increasing social concern for people and commitments undertaken by the province and local self-government. And what's most important to me is that you, by centralizing public procurement, are actually solving the most important thing in health, which is systemic corruption. Yesterday, in your presentation, you asked us MPs to suggest whether this system of public procurement, the whole procedure would be conducted by the Fund or by the administration at the ministry. For me as a MP, it's completely irrelevant. For what? Because if things are set right from the beginning, it doesn't matter whether it's the administration or the Fund. It is important that by the estimates you have at the beginning you reduce 20% of corruption. It's something that's really important. It is also important that the proposal to amend these laws strengthens your financial responsibility and will create greater discipline for health institutions as a user of public funds and that the draft of this law precisely regulates the humane plan, when it comes to employment. As regards the third Amendments and Supplements Act, it is also very important that vulnerable categories appear in the compulsory health insurance system, the profession has its place as part of the possibility to regulate the way and procedure of placing medicines on the list and allowing the Republic Health Insurance Fund to make payments on behalf of and on behalf of health institutions from its resources when necessary. You, in my opinion, have done three key things in the last few months. You've prevented the collapse of the health system. You're centralizing the public procurement system and what's very important to me, you've launched the Torlak. If you succeed in ensuring the transparency of investment in health projects in the next period, this has been a major criticism so far and if you succeed in moving on the waiting lists, you will have great support in this House from MPs. You've got it now, because you've done a lot for this short time. I thank you for that, and I want to tell you that the NS MP group in voting day will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6585	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. You're like an authorised representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, my discussion will vary greatly from these great praises which, in my opinion, have not touched the essence of the problem, not the essence of the debt, but the demagogue story, without one single indicator, justify covering everything that was bad in the health system and the debt that this law has caused, by people who have previously managed health institutions, will pay the citizens of Serbia. In the meantime, we've led several major drugstores, thanks to this unsettled system, to go bankrupt. Many people lost their jobs, and many basic medicines such as nitroglycerin, which was the only one that produced the "Serbolek" with us, so the damage was for all citizens of Serbia because of two ways. First, because there was a huge debt that they would pay, and secondly, they didn't have the medications necessary, they shouldn't talk, if I only mentioned nitroglycerin from which it is important for the health of the population. We're not voting for any of these laws. First, because, in the light of the law, the public debt made by healthcare institutions shifts to the burden of all citizens of Serbia, there is not a single valid indicator, and then we had to prepare for this session to come to a series of data that were not presented in this Assembly because it is likely to be a secret. I think all MPs and all the public should know who made that debt. There was a general story here. There were health institutions that respected the personnel plan, they didn't hire people beyond the contract with the Republic Health Insurance Institute, they respected the financial plan, they did good business, they had a good organisation of health care. The management of these institutions was well and should have been commended publicly and commended, which are the institutions. Then comes the second general story – but there are some. You know what the communists say, and by starting Tito, there are some. Who are some of them? Who's the one who didn't respect the financial plan? Who is it that spent the unintended funds of Serbian citizens? Who's the one who blamed all this debt? What do we do now with this law, turkey dots don't apply? In the same basket we put those who did the best work and those who did the worst work, but with what we say to Serbian citizens now, a new leaf is turning today, because today everything is going to be a fairy tale. It won't, because we still have a very old health care system in general, which is not in a modern way arranged and which has also shown through what has now happened all the weaknesses of your system. This looks like that story to me that you hold fire in one hand, light a little fire, and then in the other hand, put out a little fire, and then ask for a reward because you put out the fire that you yourself produced. Nothing is said here about what the health ministers have done within their jurisdiction and control of health institutions. We had two health ministers during whose term of office this debt was made. What is the position of the last minister of health, your predecessor? He's an advanced gentleman, and he's back in high position in the state service. As long as the system in each area functions in such a way that everyone who screws up in their jurisdiction, not to answer for their misdemeanors, but to shift to the burden of all Serbian citizens, and in addition to getting promotion in the service, do not expect SPO and DHSS support for such a reson and such approach to the problem. Here this central problem is 100m euros. I repeat, 100m euros in incapacitated, corrupt and poor healthcare institutions will be paid by all citizens of Serbia, and on the other hand, one B 92 media house is leading a few years of battle for babies because the appliances are missing and because it is unable to do so by the state, and the state has declaredly advocated the fight against the white plague. We're no longer interested in a declarative pledge, we're not interested in demagogy, we're interested in what's happening in practice. Now, with the immunisation of all persons who do not have health insurance, which is a good measure, which will, on preventive checks in the health care of single parents of up to seven years of age, be able to immunize these persons, provide health care, etc., which will create a legal basis for centralising public procurement for the needs of health institutions, which promises to strengthen the responsibility and financial, which will be respected by the human plans, we should admire and say – great, we support this. Not until it is systemically arranged, and until it is determined who is responsible for what happened and for a debt of 100m euros. We haven't even been here, in reason we haven't received one single piece of information about the financial debt of a health care institution. Not all health institutions are in the same position. At the moment, I think about a dozen hospitals of 46 or 47 are at the level of the Republic in a blockade. This is where we were supposed to get the information from the hospitals in the blockade? What are they in the blockade for? Is it because of some objective reason, is it because of corruption, is it because of the accidental spending of funds? Who are these people and are they responsible for what they're doing? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Second, how did the debt come to be? Simplely, state or health institutions owe pharmaceutical companies and most of all to major drug companies. The wholesalers owe the drug manufacturers. Drug manufacturers, due to outstanding claims, go bankrupt, fire workers. The result is that empty shelves in drug pharmacies, suffering the health of the population, and, besides "Unemko", "Velefarm", "Yugormedia" is in a very difficult situation, is also in a very difficult situation "Galenika", which Velefarm, which is already in bankruptcy, owes 65m euros. It is a difficult position for the Republic Health Insurance Institute, because it has a huge claim on the name of a health insurance contribution, because the register of the Republic Health Insurance Office is 70 percent full of these funds. Then the Republic Health Insurance Office owes the drugstores, which have been issued on a prescription, and the drug debt issued on the medical prescription of 13.8 billion dinars. I know this was a ceasefire, this measure the government adopted two months ago, and it adopted the debt settlement programme towards the Republic Health Insurance Fund in the 12 months of the war. We didn't even get as much information here as we now have employees in the health system. It is said that the Republic Health Insurance Institute, that is data that we can find on the Internet, a barata with a number of 104 employees, but that there are 125,000 in reality and that those 21,000 are employed by the plan and by the contract with the Republic Health Insurance Office. Then one logical question arises – who hired these people, surely party personnel? Why was the money that was supposed to go to drug suppliers and drug dealers spent on wages? So, the head of the health care facility has done two disastrous things. First he hired past the permit of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and certainly beyond what the Ministry of Health would approve, he hired his staff, and then instead of the drug suppliers, he made peace on a regular basis, so that they would not go bankrupt, so that there were no problems, then instead of settling their obligations, he spent that money on salaries. We also see that not all majors are in the same position. That's what no one here has said. Let's just say, "Yugoremedia" has charged all the claims. How? Were they privileged because they organized themselves, that they strike, that they protested or that there was another reason? How could they have charged all the claims, and some other major drugstores didn't? Or "Actavis," which was privatized by "Healthy" Leskovac, says they've charged all the claims. Why do we say we won't vote for this? We won't vote until the debt is determined. If we say – turkey dots are not valid, it means that we will also stimulate the current healthcare institutions' managers, regardless of the centralised public procurement and they are said to respect the financial plan, the staff plan, etc., but it has been applied so far, so it has not been respected, so until it is determined who is responsible and who has made the debt. What we're interested in is really being systematically done and bringing new modern health insurance laws, health care, to improve the doctor's position, to protect doctors, because we've improved the patient's position. When we talk about health institutions, about medical staff, I talk with a lot of respect for a lot of wonderful doctors, who are really doctors in the best sense of that word, but what you've been doing, that might not be bad. If it's just a marketing move, I expect an answer from you. Yesterday, fellow Milosavljevic mentioned it, we read it in the newspaper, that you know that you stop by an unannounced health care facility, which is fine, to even walk in the back door and see how the system works, etc. If that's true, then I'm interested, sure all health care facilities aren't equally well organized. You've found a ride somewhere, but you've found a good organization somewhere. What did you do where you found the ride? Did you immediately initiate the removal of that director and the head of that health care facility, or did they give you a friendly promise, that in the coming period, this ride will correct? You're because of that piety, because I know you're sick to doctors and you're always defending your profession, which is fine, and I don't blame you at all, but if you're already going unannounced, then you should announce the news that the Minister of Health has stopped by some medical facility, that she's found a Javaljuk and that the director who, by the way, has made debts and has a poor organisation of the work of a health institution. Now, that's one move that we have in mind, if this doesn't happen what I'm talking about, that doesn't have any concrete results. Secondly, I think we should finally separate the expertise from the intricacies, the work from the hard work. Here in Parliament, I have called with my colleagues on numerous occasions for some good experiences, from us close to Slovenia, which has stimulated doctors who work in rural hospitals, in rural health homes, by increasing their earnings by 30% - 40%. Oh, my God, it's a big crowd and there's a big race that's gonna work in the rural area. We, being intertwined with the responsibilities of local self-government and the Ministry of Health, expect that, in agreement with local self-governments, deforestations and abandoned rural infirmarys, health homes, reconstruct, that people who are far away from the city are going into the area because of sore throats or some very light and harmless disease, should not be harassed. They have a bigger problem, especially for the rural population living in some remote areas, they have a bigger problem with going to a doctor because of sore throats than the disease itself. Secondly, as a political party we are in Kragujevac, and now you are familiar, I expect you to intervene, to finally solve the problem of a military hospital in Kragujevac, which should be a general hospital. You also know that the clinical center in Kragujevac serves about 2.5 million people and that there are huge crowds in the clinical center, that the clinical center should be relieved and that the really military hospital, which is in a good position, is close to the clinical center and that has good capacities, even has good doctors, but that would all be done in agreement with the Ministry of Defence, that Kragujevac finally gets his city hospital, which is quite normal for the city of the fourth-largest city in the country. What we think is, not to go into the profession, the cancer of our health system's wounds, with all these problems I've talked about before, it's disrespect for this ethical relationship doctor-patient. You know, as a psychiatrist, how important this incentive is, this drug, this reception, this ethical relationship, because the good word of the doctor at the beginning seems to be a dying word for a patient with the most severe diseases, not to mention something else. As the other way around, the em man is sick, the em comes across a bad doctor's reception, they treat him like he's not a human being, and he has no motive to fight, no motive to go to the doctor, because he doesn't expect a warm human word, he doesn't expect to go to a doctor who's really going to have a sense of his problem. A lady who had been treated, a complex operation at a state hospital in Prague, told me that the chief nurse had escorted her to the hospital gate and told her that she hoped that the treatment had been successfully completed and that when a tourist came to Prague to stop by her hospital at all times. Do you know what her comment was – when our sister will escort you to the gate? One more thing, I need to draw your attention to maternity homes that are often in catastrophic condition. I'm going to name an example of a Kraguje maternity home that up until a few years ago had no hot water, very bad nightgowns, torn slippers, and often after the birth of a cleaning lady they put in a wheelchair, and on the maternity bag with her things next to the swearing – where you're going down to drive you to your room today. What do these things show? They show a picture of the state, they show a picture of the minister, I'm not saying it's just your responsibility, they show the seriousness of a system that needs to change. When all this is done in a positive direction, when you know who's right for what, when good doctors are stimulated, when these others are punished, when citizens feel that the country's true intention is in that direction, you'll have our support. Without that, don't count on us to support all these blindings, makeup, cosmetic changes, because that's not what we're helping you with, because your commanding officer can get away with what's happened, nothing, what's happened, that's the situation that's been left behind, the mandate has passed. What people will remember you by, as another minister in a series who has done nothing. I'm not saying it's your intention, but if your intention is in the spirit of what I said today in front of our parliamentary group, when you come with such suggestions, count on our support. Without it, you won't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6587	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Chikiriz, allow me to express my satisfaction that you are obviously involved with emotions and content in the need for the health of Serbian citizens to be better. Your contribution to the debate today is obviously with the idea of supporting something that's good. At the beginning, I would like to tell you that if I accepted all your suggestions, it would mean that I should wait for some other authorities to finish my work, and then to deal with what this assembly decided to be a health minister. So, the health ministry's function is to improve the health of Serbian citizens. This function and the laws we propose have not been ruled out, nor have we predicted that other authorities, inspection services, the prosecutions are not doing their job. A lot of that in your content has been directed to the inaccuracy, which apparently has in health care. I agree with you that I use terms that may seem painful, but I don't behave like that at all, because I am aware of the role the Ministry of Health plays in trying to get certain things, but within 250 euros, it is today's theme, as far as people are concerned, that allows better health care. We define ourselves in health care for prevention, for early detection of disease, we define these laws to increase those health insurance rights that will allow the largest number of people what the amount of money is allocated to health care can give. That's what I was talking about yesterday. As for the need to finance health care by means of budgets, we are in the fact that 40% of the Pension Fund is going out of the budget. The government will continue its social programmes, the state social programmes will force. Of course, it will be the right solution for the economy to reach a higher level, to make the separations bigger and completely different. I agree with you that I'm putting out some fires, but I don't agree to make up. I think the introduction of pharmacies, private pharmacies, into the status of making deals with the Republic Health Insurance Institute and having the exact same status, i.e. that the patient has the exact same right to use his prescription in both, and in a private pharmacy, is something that can't be called makeup. I think it's a centralized supply, which has an anti-corruption character, but first of all it has the character of saving. If you are getting more medicines, of course you will achieve a lower price and that is an economically important move and that is why it is on the agenda today in the set of economic laws. I think the capitulation formula we've started to use in the last three months is going in the way of your idea of taking care of the country's hospitals and hospitals on the periphery. We believe that health homes should not be tents for hospitals and clinical centres, but must deal with health activities. We think that health care professionals and doctors don't all do the same, so those who are willing to work in screening programs, and in rural hospitals should be rewarded more than others. I think the steps that the rule of introduction of the DRG will also solve the problem of extra healthcare employees. This financial capacity Serbia has is not enough to maintain a network of health institutions and employees to the standards envisaged. This can be solved in different ways until we all look forward to the fact that health separations are bigger. One way is to introduce a DRG. What does that mean? This means health care facilities that require the payment of the number of beds or the number of doctors or the number of employees. Under these circumstances, they can't expect it. That's not gonna be our funding standard. The standard will be the number of diagnostic categories, i.e. related services. So, we will have standards in terms of minimum and maximum staff, and whether one institution will define that a certain number of interventions work with a smaller or higher number of doctors and health care professionals, of course, should not go below the minimum, because of the provision of quality services in health care, will depend on what salaries will be made to doctors. We can't solve something at this point that's impossible, but I think we're essentially running and we're not wearing any makeup. So we essentially started the process of introducing order. What are my impressions when I go to a health care facility? I think I should share that with those who work in that facility. I don't think it's good for the directors to get fired in front of the cameras. I don't think it's good not to point to certain failures. I must say, with great pleasure, that health care professionals, that doctors continue to work on the highest quality, most humane, most professional and necessary work in this society. I belong to them, and I'm very proud of that. Only such doctors and healthcare professionals can give the quality of health care you expect, as a potential patient, because all of us in the health care system are equally important. I think it's the role of all of us, as well as these doctors, around whom the perception is that they're the most corrupt, to make one demystification. The highest number of doctors do their job perfectly, professionally and quality. We health care professionals are most interested in some other institutions nominating those who are working to destroy the reputation of health care and health care professionals. On many occasions, I said you couldn't expect the Ministry of Health to bring you lists of corrupt, incorrect. That's what other institutions do. I invite them to do it. If you wait until you get lists of these, and then I'm doing the job of the Minister of Health, I'm afraid that your basic observation, and it would be very well founded, would be that I'm actually waiting for a better time, and that's just called the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6589	The word is Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6590	I don't think we understood each other at some point. I was talking about the responsibility of those who made the debt. Is there no information available on who blamed these 100m euros? Do you know what kind of money that is? Do you know how much for 100m euros to get equipment and what health problems could be solved with that money? Secondly, I have great respect for doctors and for everything you have said about the human structure, about their sacrifice and the importance of their work for society, I absolutely agree. We have extraordinary personnel and conditions like this. I especially don't understand, regardless of the great lack of anesthesiologists and radiologists and cardio surgeons, how professional they are and how with so many Elenas and with so many medical ethics they work in these conditions, which means they're extremely human. My basic discussion wasn't on the system of corruption, it was on changing the whole system. You are a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Your president is the Home Secretary. When he does something good, you say, "We are a team, one soul." When something is wrong, you say – sorry, this is my ministry's jurisdiction, it should be done by another ministry. So you're not a team then. I'm telling you that you need to be a team in everything, for better or for worse. Don't ask me to do the job of the Home Secretary, not just these health problems, but the problems of all kinds. Secondly, I know that every doctor in general has a daily checkup of 60 to 80 patients, that a specialist doctor has 20 to 30 examinations, that neurologists and these personnel that I mentioned earlier are missing, but I think our intention is common. (President: Time, Mr. Chikiriz. I'm sorry, I'm done. If we were to discuss the problems of our health, surely you could bring much more problems out as a health minister than I do. That's why I expect you to deal with all these problems bravely and when you start systemically solving it...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6591	I have to stop you. The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6592	So there's no mystification. Yesterday I said 13.5 billion invoiced services, spent medications, salaries for those who are off-standard hired to work in health care. Even the largest number of these salaries is for those who are under the standard hired, but the Fund couldn't make a contract for their engagement because he didn't have the money. What's the fact? The fact is that there were directors who absolutely stuck to the text of the contract and that their quality of work was not important. You know, you can treat one disease with different medicines, more expensive and cheaper. Every man has his own medicine. There must have been somewhere and a little more comfortable employment, less savings, more savings, but no one put those 13.5 billion in their pocket and took home. It's simply used for the health needs of citizens. Some directors claim that the patients survived and were treated thanks to the very part of the funding the Fund will not recognise. The Fund only recognizes what is the subject of the contract. As a minister, I've come to a terrible situation. The Fund recognises the debt at that moment of 17 billion, now it's reduced to something like 13 billion, and it doesn't recognize these other 13.5 billion. You're asking who hired that excess of 20,000 people. It was mostly the directors who found it when they came to the director's post. Of course, since they were the only ones working in families, they had this social component in them, so they had a hard time firing them. We'll have to make cuts that are painful. All the analyses show that in a network of health institutions, the founder of the government, there are more personnel than we have money to pay for. That's why we're going to have to use the private sector, because there are no funds for new investment in space, in equipment, in new personnel. Our private sector will be a resource for what we cannot do in the state sector at this stage to organise or think it will improve the quality of services, as we do with pharmacies. So I understand your concern, but the perception that in health care so much is happening corruptly, believe me, based on very serious insight, I'm saying it's not true that it's just perception. This is the very crowning authority of our doctors, our nurses, those who are the most qualified in some other systems, because you know that, unfortunately, brain drains refer to healthcare professionals. They're extraordinary wherever they go to work. The education they receive from us, the experience and skills they have are such that they are one of Serbia's prides. That's why I don't think it's right for healthcare professionals to impute negative attributes. The organisation of health services must be much more serious, the management of institutions must work within the resources we have. We want to not reduce the rights insurance companies have. It's hard, but it's a multi-order performance. I fully agree with you that a warm word with a prescription medicine means a better therapeutic effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6593	The word is Dr Nikola Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6594	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, thinking about what to say today, since this is called a set of laws of financial nature within the framework of health, I believe that these laws are much more competent to be spoken of by economists and lawyers. But when a doctor, and I'm a doctor by profession, picks up a pay phone, he usually talks about problems that are personal in nature, about appointments, about lack of medication, kindness, unkindness, and what simply affects all citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens watch MPs expect to simply get at least verbal support. What I would notice after two days of discussion is very often mentioned by doctors by the previous ministries, what the previous minister did, etc. I'm a little older here in the Assembly, so I remember the government of Ante Markovic, and I know it was a great government, but I don't remember who the Minister of Health was. I don't even remember during Djindjic. This government exists as a team, not as a holding company, but as a team and on that team all work together. After the government's mandate, it is certain that Ms. Djukic Dejanovic will remain remembered as a minister who hears all the problems. It's probably your narrow specialty to understand people. But he won't remember, or nobody will say – there was Mrs. Djukic, who did it and she will remember Mr. Dacic, who is the prime minister. The government is usually remembered for its prime minister. These three laws aim to simply prevent these losses that exist, the current debt returns and to prevent further borrowing. A 13-billion-long debt is truly incredibly large. A debt of 10, and three others, probably when some heard that the central procurement law would be passed, they may have been in debt for about three billion more, which may be somehow justified by the fear of poverty. You know when someone says they're gonna run out of salt in town, everybody buys salt, and if they need salt, and if they don't need salt. This debt, which has been accepted by the Republic as a public debt within three years, 12 wars quarterly, I think it will allow both the operation of both large-scale and health centres. What I'd like to apostrophe here is central supply. Many say it is not the best central supply, because the central commission is based on the great financial power it must have a great power. But if this commission, which has 11 members, is well controlled, I don't think there's gonna be a problem. What's the motive? The motive is savings, 20% savings. At the time of the 1980s, some euphoria of the purchase of ultra-sounding apparatus, at the Belgrade fair, which was then really a fair, Serbian health institutions were coming and buying appliances, as it appeared. Is Aloha, is Toshiba, Sonik, Johnson Johnson? Slovenians came to the fair then and bought 50 Toshiba appliances worth $45,000 and they bought 50 machines for $35,000. So it just saves at least 15 machines. What did they do next? They formed a service for Toshiba's appliances and hired their workers and served the whole of Yugoslavia, then. The possibility of centralization, we are now talking about the drug law and that medical equipment, the material, but the fact is that even when the law is passed, and the health law has to be passed then doctors will probably be much more involved about it, because I think in that sphere we're swimming. I think economists and lawyers would do it much better. A little while ago, I heard a debt return. It is not a return of debt, a payment of a prescription, but simply by adopting this law, the government will reduce the recipes they paid by 200 days per year to 150 days, in 2014 to 120 days and in 2015 to 90 days. That's some price, that's some deadline that's satisfactory for both the Fund and the wholesalers. What's another newspaper, which is not respecting the Batuta decision that simply makes the program as many doctors, as many nurses, we have about 14,000 health workers on the desk, the possibility that local self-government should be able to employ certain structures, whether doctors or nurses, about the budget cost of local self-government. It's some newspaper that if the municipality has that money, they'll probably be able to do. Together for the Shumadi, whose MP I am, thinks, but also the URS that this law should be supported and this is certainly not an ideal law, but in this situation, it is certainly something that we can offer right now and only. In voting day, we will give support to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6595	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6596	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us three laws that represent only one link in a series of laws that we need to pass to complete the reform of our health. But these three laws already show some outlines, and you can see one strategy that certainly, if it continues to work this way, can lead to the improvement of our overall health care. They say our health care has suffered, that there are many negative occurrences of corruption, working on black, inconsistencies of state and private health, disturbed relationships between doctors and patients. Maybe that's true, but we need to know that health care is only part of one sick society. Health care is only the heart of a sick society but as we know there is a cure for everything, the SNS is convinced that together with its coalition partners they will find a cure to solve both the sick and the sick health care. In fact, the most important thing is that the cancer is removed, and the yellow metastases will be removed if they need one at a time. Therefore, what is important here to say, which is actually something other MPs have called on, when we talk about these negative phenomena, that still the vast majority of health workers, today in difficult conditions, with a hundred problems very responsible, safe and above all humane doing their job. There's actually the most important thing that matters to us, and that's that humanity. Because we can be society and poor, and poor, we can be divided and torn and quarreled and spit, but we can never and can't be not human society. Because then we wouldn't be who we are and the two basics of our traits, justice and humanity have always been, no matter what the consequences of history we've had. What is the essence of this first proposal to convert public debt, a debt that has not been settled, a debt of about 13 and a half billion is a sincere wish and perhaps the only way to help producers and to turn what someone has done into a public debt. What really makes us in this situation, which is the answer: who, when, where, why, and who he has made 13 billion debt with in the last few years. By the fact that individual directors and institutions are without contracting the rules of debt with all citizens of this country. Is it possible that this will go without consequences? Is it possible that the Ministry might not be examining a story of its own internal control, not getting into the fact that it was all criminalized, that maybe there was a reason but it had to be done in some other way anyway? But what's the point of the story is while we're trying to iron out these 13 billion and while we're fighting in a way to fix things, the yellow metastases continue to bite. Now, the day before yesterday, while we've notified everyone that there will be central procurement, that a 13 billion-dollar debt is being made, the Fund is calling for an emergency tender procedure, a procurement worth 137 million dinars. This all sets out in 4.12.2012, in order for the documentation to be submitted by 10.12.2012 so that they can complete these purchases. It's about orders for dialysis, dialysis materials in that value, and now while we're fighting to fix our producers, they're looking for a 17-item tender, of which 10 of our producers can't participate. Of those 17 items we have three items that have never even been called in the tender before, which is the scariest thing we have one that isn't even registered. One dialysis that's not even registered in our country. So here, 10 items are imported, some are not even registered, some are never imported, it's actually a procurement for a famous buyer, from a famous producer, through famous people. This and similar purchases during this period to protect against making a new 13 billion we have to stop immediately. It all happens when the director resigned and when he left, one arrested, the other resigned, a nice company to the Health Insurance Fund. What's even scarier and what's going on right now, Madam Minister probably knows, one of her letters on November 13th that's been circulated to all health institutions, a letter very correctly explaining what kind of strategy we're going to apply, that we're going to go to centralised procurement, that these plans are being made, that these plans are being made through the Institute of Health Protection deliver to Batut, that the Batuta can already go into this story, that we could do something by December 20th, that we're working on it and that the savings are huge. Not only saves, but also preventing corrupt shops and everything else, and eventually getting rid of health care. Three days later, after you sent this letter to the Fund, which sends a second letter informing its subsidiaries to request that, in the shortest time, they deliver from institutions and make contracts so that they can make purchases and, say, make materials for vascular surgery, cardio surgery, installation material in cardiology, hip implants, and so on, the most expensive things. All written on some dozen things they want to do quickly now, if possible, to do the job as soon as possible and to repay some people or to fulfill some of the obligations they had before. It's all about signing the director of the sector, the lady who came, and she was the head of the clinic pharmacy and she was transferred to the Fund, so she could probably, as they say, know the combinations real and well. It's one of the combinations that needs to be done now, to add to all of this or to prevent any additional purchases, which is amazing that there is no consistency and that they try to make certain contracts as soon as possible, relying on the Public Procurement Act and thus prevent the complete strategy that healthcare is trying to make. When we came to this, the desire to centralize the purchases, to save about 20% if possible, and if saved, and 1% will be large, and if saved 20%, it will be phenomenal. It doesn't matter if it saves 1% or 20%, it's going to be phenomenal, and it's important that every penny that citizens separate for health care is really there. Now the question is, which way and which system in central procurement to make. I think it doesn't matter which way we do it, because everyone's going to be better than this "drp system" we've had in the last few years, when it comes to health supplies. Now it's a question, and it's for discussion, whether this right now or before the Public Procurement Act, but in any case, the Public Procurement Act won't deviate from this because we're harmonising it with it. The question arises whether to conduct such a centralized procurement in the Fund or the Ministry? I think it's more logical to do it in the Fund, normally, if we get rid of ourselves and clear up the situation there and get rid of all those negative phenomena that have been in the Fund for a few years, because the Fund has capacities, there's one part of very high-quality people with experience, there's information and the Fund will, in any case, have these specific purchases that are very specific personnel for it, and they can do it. What's also important, which is that we need standardisation in health care. Standardisation is something without which we cannot form market comparable prices and when we reach that level that we can do it, then we will be at the side of some countries in Europe. However, this now raises the question whether centralised procurement can be due to its size, due to its volume, whether they are trom, slow, whether we are going to create certain problems with health institutions, whether there may be some shortages or something like that. There may be some explanation, but that's why I suggest that we maybe go to centralised procurement in phases one step at a time, so that in the first step we'll have the purchase centralised for appliances, new technologies, equipment and energy. In this way we will gain some experience in order not to be wrong, so very soon afterwards we can expand it until we achieve complete centralization of health procurement. Of course, there is a need to exclude food or something that might have to be obtained somewhere in the bar, because we can't even go into some absurd decisions. We need to be very careful not to make some new Jugochemia, which, for, of the 2m euros in annual traffic, Jugochemia has arrived at 80m euros in good co-operation with the Fund in four years. So every monopoly, each must be excluded from the different rules that will only come later. I would now show Mrs. Minister a book here, this is in some translation – health in one respect, or a view of Europe's health in 2012. I don't think you may have seen this, but here are all the parameters that indicate the state of some country's health in Europe. And there's us here, so, a fully done study, I'll let you read it, see what problems you've taken, and even though you're a neuropsychiatrist, I'd advise you before you start looking at this to drink something to die, you'll take it easier, but I hope that's the problems we can overcome together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6597	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary group answering for a word? No, I don't. National MP Olgica Batić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6598	Dear President, there is much that my colleague Mirko Chikiriz has brought up, and I must first address some issues that were raised yesterday, first of all, I am thinking of Article 1 and the proposed additions to this article 1. In fact, I have to ask the Minister's question, what about the persons and whether they are covered by this health care, in fact, why they are not covered by those persons who are doing, say, the most risky and dangerous jobs, and statistics show that they are taxi drivers, farmers, farmers, miners, electricians and construction workers, because in all these categories, there is a high risk of getting disease, and this is official statistics when considering the number of deaths at work, on 10,000 workers doing the same job. My doubts are, in a way that provides health care to malignancies, who have to be subjected to radiation, when there are not enough radiologists in our country and those who have, are not trained enough to do their job. You should look at other countries doing it, especially in terms of radiology. Take Turkey, which is known and famous for so-called but advanced gamma radiation, which has perfect trained radiologists, who cannot happen to radiate healthy tissue that will become ill in a few years. Also, take Israel, which has top oncologists, which, through the stage of the cancer of individual organs, determines the microscopic pathway with 100% accuracy. You can consider Spain, which has extraordinary radiologists, who are also very well-trained and you can take the example of the Netherlands, where people who have total laryngtomia and built in tracheostoma are no longer familiar with the possibility of exophagus speech, because it has been overcome. There the installation of vocal prosthetics takes place in 10 or 15 minutes under local anesthesia. Take Croatia that is in healthcare far above us. Croatian doctors, for sure, laugh when we say that in Serbian health someone who has been treated with laryngthomy is built into metal canals, regardless of their surface, because they have long used silicone canals there. I don't know why health care isn't covering some other categories of socio-hazarded population. In point 5 of Article 11, which is complemented, it is stated – persons suffering from Hiv infections or other infectious diseases. The other day was World Side Day. Shouldn't you as a special category include members of the LGBT population, because we know they're the ones spreading the most infectious diseases. Also, why health protection from the same member is not covered by voluntary blood donors, voluntary donors of some organs, voluntary bone marrow donors. Of course, there are a bunch of laws in our country that are neither in the process nor in the procedure, but it's not your fault. This may be an awkward topic right now, but I'm going to open it up, it's never legalized prostitution, and we know that people like that fall into a high-risk category that carries infectious diseases, but for that kind of thing, we don't have grounds to count them. In addition to these countries that I said, I don't know how many doctors in Serbia who are trained enough to install ports, so that when they implement chemo, they're implanted, so that until they're exhausted, they don't destroy peripheral veins, but there don't seem to be more than two, as far as I know, so many of them in 2010. In 2010, also at the largest health center in Belgrade, at VMA, staff had no even ordinary gauze, I am a witness to that, so I know very well what I'm talking about. The military medical academy in shock rooms didn't even have the basic means, so it didn't have the gauze. It is, unfortunately, a picture and opportunity of health care in Serbia and we cannot talk about any of its improvements. What I also want to look back on is to mention what some have already done, and some former justice ministers have mentioned. You have, for example, almost a decade, Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, who said in 9.10.2010 that the satisfaction of employees is on the rise within the health system. It was, of course, an absolute lie. It's not on the rise, it's not on the rise, it's not on the ton today, it's on the fall right now. He also said that 150m euros have been invested in the Clinical Centre in Serbia since 2008 to 2010. The famous, logical question is raised, so where are the money and where are the 150m euros, what is it actually invested in? Also, the same health minister said we don't have the money to invest. (President: I must warn you that the time of the parliamentary group is up. Finish your sentence. I'm done. He also said we don't have enough millions of euros to invest, because we're already investing a lot in equipment. I ask, what equipment? Is it the one I listed that the Japanese government donated to us, but we can't apply it because of the untraining of our doctors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6599	Ms. Slavica Saveljic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6600	Thank you. I am advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 96, which says that applications for a word with a order of MPs are submitted by MPs and MPs, who are not members of the Parliament groups in writing until the opening of the search. We've got a list of the proposed ones. According to the order here, there is no SPO parliamentary group. Please, in the future, or I respect your tolerance, to allow the MPs to speak, but I ask that we receive adequate lists in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6601	Since you know, indeed, article 96 speaks of it, but you know that so far, and so far it has always been a practice in parliament, it happens that MPs with some delay apply for a word. My view is that it is necessary to allow MPs to speak on this subject, because I think the aim of Parliament is to hear the opinion of the MPs. In principle, I agree, but I think that the position I have just stated is more important than the principle of blind respect for the Rules of Procedure and I think, since it has been a practice in this Parliament for many years, that we should not violate it. Since this is also about the deputy head of the parliamentary group, I don't think that's really a problem for anyone, but I certainly agree and I call on all the parliamentary groups to always deliver phone calls in business. (Zoran Radovanovic, from town: Replica. ) You can't replica now, I don't think you have a basis for replication. Mrs. Savelic is right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6603	I would agree with you, provided that all MPs, who change you when they chair, have the same attitude and do not. So it wasn't every time we got a word when we asked for it, and we didn't report the speakers on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6604	I will consult with the Vice-Presidents, and from now on, I hope everyone will respect that position, but I do ask the MPs to show respect for the Rules of Procedure. The word has Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6605	It was useful, whether it's procedural or not, your participation in the debate, Madam MPs, because, in fact, I want to explain, we've expanded the rights for everyone, for anyone who doesn't have insurance. So, taxi drivers, the foresters you mention, they already have insurance, but all the people in Serbia, whether they're insured or not, will use budget funds to use immunization and screening techniques. So we just increased the volume absolutely for everyone, and LGBT populations, and for everything. That's the point, so I think it's very good that we have this dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6606	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6607	Dear President, Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning you mentioned some vice presidents who do not have a uniform practice. I can confirm to Mrs. Kovac, who is an MP, vice president of the URS, that on several occasions herself, once allowed me to speak in this way, and in this sense I do not see that there is any significant deviation from practice. I commend that, of course I don't think that's supposed to be a rule, but an exception. Now this second part of these laws. I'm kind of bothered by this ease of spreading the theory of the human organism to society and those stories that are basically organic, when diseases of the organism or man are passed on to society. I think it's always the introduction to other more dangerous theories that have done a lot of dangerous evil to mankind in the past. And I'm going to use it in part, and there was that, and in previous discussions, I don't think it's going to kill us these severe or most severe diseases, our health care system like this or somehow fighting them. I think that we will be destroyed by this disgusting demagogy and populism, which often in our society, and I must say that the most common in political debates on the health system is, in some ways, here, for two days now, since yesterday afternoon when the debate on these laws began, with rare exceptions among MPs and with the exception of the minister representing the law, which, I would say, falls most rarely into demagogy, if it does so at all. I don't think that you're sick to health care professionals, I think that in this debate you've been very often overly painful, to those who talk to you about the ideal system, dream dreams of free health, give you phenomenal suggestions for whom everything needs to be free of charge without anyone telling you how much it costs. So, to argue at the end of 2012, whether you are a doctor, a lawyer or a forester, to advocate for free healthcare, is an absolute nonsens. There's no free health care, like no free lunch, no free medicine, no prosthetics. Health care isn't free now, it wasn't even 30 years ago, and it's never going to be, it's going to be more expensive as treatment techniques and different diseases develop, etc. Those who advocate improvement, as we may still say a little old-fashionedly, social care about human health or social care, should first have it in mind. Another thing, at this point, health care is not free of charge because Serbia's health care is financed by those who pay contributions, on the one hand by the largest part, and one part by all Serbian citizens through budget allocations for health care. Otherwise, we can be such demagogues, so we can talk about how we advocate free health at the same time, and then ask ourselves, how do debts in the Fund come about, how do debt in the budget arise, how do health institutions' debts towards wholesales, etc? The story of how debts have arisen in this debate has mostly come down to what is most popular these days in Serbia, which is to find Pedro who will hang and to make some kind of arrest on TV. All the bridegrooms are being made in some way, as if the directors of Serbia's health care facilities had fallen into those health institutions, taken them over, stamped them and signed them, and started making debts, ordering medications, aids, etc. All directors were appointed by political decision, i.e. on the party line. That seems now. Some colleagues here say that, I believe, I cannot judge, but apparently, top medical experts or doctors, but at the same time they are MPs and directors of clinical centres or directors of some other institutions. When the election campaign starts, or when the elections are closer, when the political cycle begins, then of course politicians are pressuring both health centres and doctors and directors, that nothing should be wrong at that time, that service must be the best possible, so that people will not be satisfied, that some party or some authority should not be punished in the elections. In the last four years, each time in the elections, and especially when some extraordinary local elections are organised, these are the choices you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, have called, as president of the National Assembly, Serbia is overwhelmed by doctors who work all the time. In their campaigns, some political parties shared glasses, regular checks, etc., all in an attempt to buy as many votes as possible or collect. When these debts eventually arise, when both local communities and central authorities have made those debts, then we come before parliament with a demand to cover the debts of 130m euros, and no one wants to talk about how they are essentially created. They came from a bad system. Of course there are cases of corruption, overauthority, abuse of authority, etc., but this is not a fundamental problem with Serbian health. The fundamental problem of Serbian health was the moment we believed, 20 years ago, that we could live and heal from, as Mr Blazic said, humanity, solidarity and patriotism. Just as patriotism is not poured into the tractor, so the scanner is not involved in patriotism, but also involved by having to buy it, maintain it, finance its maintenance, find money to educate doctors who will use it in an appropriate way. As Serbia could not survive and be treated then, it will not be possible in years to come. When you have a country where the government passed, and this one does, every few months connected the internship to the employees, giving them the illusion that they would have quality health care, so debt in the health system was created. When the government and the ministry connect the internship, no real money is paid into the health fund, only a political decision is made to stamp the health book. I don't mind. I didn't mind in the last session that people get that health care, but it's a consequence of the illusion that you can have hundreds of enterprises that are more than a decade, some two decades in the restructuring process, that don't have to pay contributions, that don't have to pay taxes and that make a loss in that fund. The Serbian Health Fund cannot serve Serbian citizens, cannot treat them in a way that is appropriate, cannot treat them even in a way that is standardized as standard at this time for the simplest possible reason – there is no money, there are too few insurance companies paying for contributions and there is this loss. It is not only a debt of 130m euros, there are still a bunch of debts in Serbian healthcare that have not been shown here, just as it is not fair to talk in this debate about finding a permanent solution and the debt being covered. This only created the legal possibility that, by the end of 2015, that money would be paid off in 12 wars. The question is what will be the budgets for next year and whether we will succeed in any situation to solve this problem. The second thing, I don't think it's been said, the big drugstores, the other credentials in these relationships were still correct towards the state and its budget. Someone would say correct, and I would say as someone who is basically a liberal, that they couldn't choose much. You know, they don't have a completely free market. They can mostly work with the state and its funds or close down because they can't survive on the market. I'll quote one of your sentences a few weeks ago, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I hope it's true. You said you were trying to build a system with the Ministry's Bank. I think this approach is wrong because I don't think the Fund can be so tight, directly tied to the Ministry. The fund in economic terms is not a state or budget institution, it is owned by insurance companies, those who pay contributions to the fund. We lost that relationship over the years, if it ever existed. All of Serbia's perceptions of the Fund as some part of the state administration, a budget category that works closest to the state, the ministry and the budget, and which is to be financed by health institutions. I think this delusion creates what you were talking about, which is so difficult to change today, that the Serbian health system works by having a certain number of buildings, employees, beds and appliances, and that the Fund is expected to cover the monthly, or annual costs of these beds, appliances, employees, etc. That's why you have so much trouble getting into a private institution or private pharmacy system, because these social or state, as we usually call them, are now funding as much as possible and then simply, there's no money to finance other institutions. Here in a very negative way, several discussions mention the private health system. It's true that this system, his relationship with public health, is not arranged for us, but it exists. In the past 10-15 years, as much as there is in the larger volume, he has essentially saved this nation, I rarely use that word, although people have paid, although it is a great burden for them, even though they do not have those rights that they should have as insurance companies. Who knows how many lives in this country have saved the environment that there are such, I'd say more and more quality, private institutions, doctors working in them, etc. The question has been raised about how people in state institutions are not kind. That's right. There are such and such doctors, there are such and such medical staff, but how is it that most of these are the same people, as we know, that a large number of people in our health care system work simultaneously in both public and private health care, kindly in the afternoon and at the service of every patient? It's motivation, of course, as always. You can't stop life. Not only can the state health system rest on love, commitment, at the wish of doctors and health care personnel to be human, to be devoted to people. These people have to have some motivation. It is not true that if the system were otherwise arranged, these people would insist on working in both sectors. These people still work 12, 13, 14, 15 hours a day. It's not because they're all curious, it's because it's the only way they can provide themselves with enough income per month, that they can often educate themselves on their own and on their own cost. You know perfectly well that in some of the most developed for Serbian conditions, the richest, so to speak, health care institutions, doctors who get new equipment, new appliances, buy their own books, educate themselves, and try to keep up with the development of science. I know how long the process of training doctors and some other people who work in health care takes, and I respect that very much. I don't mind you talking about some other professions in a slightly different way, comparing them and saying that education for other experts takes much less. I think that education lasts the same way, from the moment you started education in primary school to the end of your professional career. Economists or lawyers who imagine that when they passed a judicial exam or got their first job at a social firm, they no longer have to move forward are the worst lawyers and economists. Such forces are in our institutions, and that's why these facilities work. I believe that the same goes for doctors, as in some cases a top specialization or title standing in front of the doctor's name, is in itself not proof of quality. In the end, only patients can judge that. Another big question that hasn't been opened is what do we really need on the market? Why does anyone have a problem with it, unless it's a case of abuse, setting up a tender, I take it as a remark, the fact that something will be bought by a foreign producer and not by a domestic producer? Why would that interest an insurance company, or one who is seeking and is to receive health care? Is it the goal of seven and a half million Serbian citizens to force domestic factories that obviously cannot survive on the market or is the goal of providing the most quality medicines, aiding and other medical equipment for our insurance companies? That kind of demagogy has brought us into this situation. That kind of demagogy has forced this parliament, the ruling parties in the past session, to throw 70m euros into the well for Galenika, without interest, which in the next 10 years or I don't know what time it is to pay off that loan, will exceed the amount of the basic debt itself. Is Galenika better today than she was? Is it our interest to have an open market in which drug factories compete or is it our goal to destroy everyone else by helping an endless state-owned factory? The possible answer to the question how Actavis collected his claims or some other private factory, because the factory cares about some people to collect claims they have, depending on whether they will collect those claims or get fired, and the company will fail. When state-owned companies trust, they will never try to collect their debt until politicians allow them to do so. Everyone in this country knows that. Thus the state systems and state drugstores, state drug factories, etc. failed. That's how they've been going down for the last 20 years. When Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic says yesterday, correctly, that we have to ask ourselves how many people pay contributions and how long it will last, I think it is a correct political appeal to people who are involved in politics in this country and who should make decisions in this House. Mr. Korać partly talked about it, I won't use too much time, LDP is not convinced that the centralised public procurement system will be a good solution. I understand that by the principles of the economy, it is realistic to expect that the discounts, the use, that the price will be lower, but I think that another important need is ignored, which is efficiency. I am afraid that in this country we will very quickly come into a situation that, especially in some smaller places, more distant from Belgrade, very often we will run out of basic material in health and that this will be the result of inefficient procurement. Not to mention whether it opens up space for other abuses. It's often been said here that some suppliers are privileged. This was often used as an argument in the fight against corruption, but I think that when a centralized institution, which is related to the ministry and which makes annual plans, is going to be big in such great planning and procurement, then the conditions of the tender will only be able to meet large players on the market and that it may endanger some who are smaller, but let's see how it works. I don't think you should be sharp and take more pictures and be rude when you go to health care facilities. I appreciate you being so... At least I don't think you should be at first, I think people should get a chance. I'm kind of happy that you're being discreet, and that you're going in the back door and I'm the happiest that you don't have the manners of Milovan Boyic. He was 13 years ago with hordes of cameras and television terrified in the middle of the night of doctors, nurses and pharmacists, putting them on a pillar of shame. I'm not sure that in 1999 and 2000 health care in Serbia was better, as I don't believe that from this now on, society-led haranga, expecting someone to be guilty of all political failures and that health care will be better afterwards. As far as LDP is concerned, these aren't big enough moves, big enough steps. Some of those you have announced are encouraging, but I completely doubt that you will have political support in your ruling coalition to run and finish these big cuts all the way. They mean a sharp break-up with demagogy, as on one side requires a sharp break-up with demagogy in Kosovo's politics. These changes cannot be superficial, as they cannot be in Kosovo politics either. For nothing, a rational statement by Mr Dacic or Vukic that we must take care of what is being lived about, when the next morning in the parliament of Serbia, the MPs of one of these parties speak as if they had returned to radical suits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6608	The word is Dr. Zoran Radovanović, by the replica. Did you mention that? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6609	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a little while ago my colleague misread my exposure. I didn't say that fellow lawyers, economists, and other college students are weaker than doctors or anything else. I was going to say that the doctor's profession takes a long time, and the doctor's mistakes are extremely painful, most painful than the lawyer, who's going to make a small mistake, so it's going to be the Supreme Court, the second degree, the third degree. Our lives are at stake and we're working extremely fast. A colleague sitting behind my dear fellow MP Đuric missed the topic. There are seven radiologists in Nis alone who can install a venous port for you today. I do not recognize Members of general practice who know all the details of everything and everything. A fellow MP sitting next to a colleague has decided to say thank you. Of course it's praise for the law. It's normal to praise a law like this. We've cleared up where partisans and Chetniks are and when World War II is over. We can't wait for everyone to get arrested, because that woman sitting there is called Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, not Slavica Dacic Vukic. They report for arrests, and now we're talking health care laws, and they're very precise and exact. What does it mean to wait for the system to settle? That it's 50 years, so let's figure out what's going on tomorrow at the Nis Clinical Center, there's no such thing as a cure. It's life. Medicine is life. Medicine is not a phrase, medicine is not a right, medicine is not an economy, and that is what must be respected. None of you asked you to vote for this bill. All you're asked to do is, if it's a good thing, and you haven't said anything wrong, you've already talked about the arrests, to support the law. If you don't, 1941 started again and you're back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6610	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6611	You said I misunderstood you, and then from what you said, it turns out I didn't get you wrong. Of course you're right when you talk about the importance of medicine. I don't argue with that at all. I think you're just sending the wrong message that way. I think it's very important for the people in this country to see or get a message that they have to behave responsibly. In recent years, they haven't received this, so they've tried to defend themselves in courts, or to close their apartment purchase contracts, and then to the last station, that means that people buy their own drugs on the street, buy their own glasses, frames, and glass, and try to heal themselves. In the end, the consequences are catastrophic. They don't make it to the doctor. That's all I meant, I didn't mean to get all worked up about which profession was more important. I don't think anyone should call Wolf or Dacic. There's some elemental order in this country, you've chosen the government, and the whole government has to respect the laws. As you know, I have not advocated arrests, some other colleagues may have, but the LDP has repeatedly advocated the order of the institutions, but don't direct anyone from the position of the MP to appear to the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister, in order for someone to be arrested or punished. It's 1944, not 1941. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6612	The word is based on the replica of MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6613	My dear colleague, we didn't understand each other. I'm definitely repeating that there is no difference in profession. I was talking about the sensitivity of the profession. What you know or don't know, the first director I set up in Nis, just before you mentioned the directors of the clinic center, the first assistant I appointed was a member of the LDP, it doesn't matter name. The important thing is that he's an expert. His party commitment doesn't matter to me. It's important to me that the house works, and that's what I've been saying about house management. If these laws are systematic, it's good support for something, management does its job. At my place, the other assistant directors that none of them are from the SPS. Check the site now. Without a throw, there's plenty of personnel. If you have anything to talk about, come in as a man, raise your hand to talk. What I told you earlier was simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6614	Don't talk to another MP, look at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6615	I'll look at you, but he turned to me, I didn't know who he was. I went wide, there were few, but I didn't know who it was. It's easy to make a deal. The point was one thing. If one of the MPs is talking about laws, three health laws, and they're asking where 13 billion are, the thesis is missing. It's a missed subject. It's like in a Serbian language class, you get homework to write -- as I see spring, and you write about snow. We're talking about a set of health care laws. Who made the debt? It's a question for the vice-president of the government that deals with it. I didn't say you called him. That's a question you can ask when he's here on Thursday, when the government's here. In that context, it's said, not to answer, I think I have the right to direct you if you don't know who to go to and for what.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6616	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. On what grounds? (Bojan Đurić, from the place: I give up. Mr. Chikiriz answered. Here you go. On what grounds? (Mirko Chikiriz, from the city: he mentioned me. All right, I'll let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6617	Mr. President, I don't need your mercy. Mr. Radovanovic made a breach of the Rules of Procedure by speaking directly to me and his colleague Batic. That's when you were supposed to intervene. By the way, he misread my presentation and I mean next.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6618	Since you want to talk so formally, do you want to say which member you're referring to? It's a formal conversation now, since you say it's my mercy, say by which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6619	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6620	There's a member that you mention, but tell me which member it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6621	I'm reporting from replica law. If you think it doesn't belong to me, deny me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6622	It belongs to you absolutely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6623	Thank you very much. There's a 130m-euro debt here, and the MP says I missed the topic because I asked who made that debt? This debt should be transferred as a public debt to the shoulders of all Serbian citizens. Second of all, no one here mentioned the arrest, but only responsibility for the debt and who blamed the debt. I said that you need to improve the doctor's position, stimulate the good work of a doctor, to admire doctors who in this kind of health care organization are doing their job with honor, correct, professionally, and do not let you, I think it's wrong and absolutely malicious, to interpret that someone here mentioned the arrest. I was just asking -- how did this debt, what is the structure of the debt, and why is ten hospitals in Serbia currently in a blockade? I really can't give thanks for the purposeless spending of the funds, as it says in the light of this law, for the staffing of 20,000 people without the permission of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and for the production of several large-scale bankruptcys, mainly due to this kind of system, went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6624	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6625	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MP Zoran Radovanovic, at least I know his name, and if I don't know, I look into the monitor, so I turn to him as appropriate. It is a shame that he does not know the names, so he speaks – a colleague behind a colleague and a colleague to a colleague and others. It is a shame and destroys the dignity of this House. Besides, when I was talking about "port," it's official. A fellow doctor can go to the VMA, which is the highest facility. That's where I got that information. I didn't ask him for his opinion. I asked Mrs. Health Minister if it was true and I said what year and when I got the answer. There are stenographic notes about what we are talking about here, so a fellow MP who does not sit behind there and is not up to any MPs, but named Radovanovic, can read all of this nicely in our exhibitions, not persistently interpreting all that the MPs so far have asked, both LDP colleagues and SPI and DHSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6626	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6627	Can two replicas since I've been called twice?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6628	Just one replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6629	A little while ago, as my colleague Ostojić showed me to read, I was writing down what Mr. Chikiriz is, I know what the man's name is, and I wrote down what the SPO would say, and I didn't say. So, I was writing down what he said. Now I'll read you what it says. I read that, I'll stay. It says this -- who did the damage, etc., and when you say who's guilty of 13 billion, that means someone who's guilty should be arrested, not arrested. That's how you'd do it. I don't understand. I'm not talking to him directly, I'm talking to him there. The second thing, I just told my colleague, who I also know the name and last name, now I'm not going to say on purpose...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6630	You've already violated the lawyers. There's some lawyers sitting there, take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6631	Just before I said, wrong information to the public of Serbia. It is not true that there are two radiologists in Serbia who do so. There's no such thing as that. Third, it's not VMA's highest facility. It may be the tallest on the hill, but it's not the tallest. There are clinical centres in Serbia, there are institutions of various profiles. Each has its share. And that's incorrect. I'm just talking about inaccuracy. What does the highest facility mean, tallest and lowest? I was talking here today about the law as a professor, i.e. A teacher at the university, as director of the Clinical Center, as someone who appoints LDP members to be assistants, as someone who appoints members of other parties to be assistants because they are the most professional in the part, and I am the director as a member of the SPS most professional of them all. That's what you asked, I'll stay a little while ago and you didn't understand. So the point, just before Mr. Chikiriz literally said that he was waiting, reading, nightgowns in gynecology mentioned, says – when it happens that nightgowns in Kragujevac are arranged, they will then vote for this law. If I have to, I'm going to buy gynecology nightgowns in Kragujevac so they can vote for this bill, because I didn't realize that he found an objection to the law. So the law is good. (President: Time.) I'm done. I realized that he said the law was good, that only the nightgowns were missing and that the height of the facility mattered. That's what I'm asking you. So the law is good and you have to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6632	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6633	To be understood, responsibility can be moral, political, criminal, material, etc. If a person makes a debt, he can commit a crime, he can unintendedly spend money, and there are no elements of a crime, etc. I think it is perfectly normal for MPs to vote in favour of the law, that the debt that someone else has blamed will be a debt of all citizens of Serbia, even if they should know, it is a moral responsibility, who made the debt and with what basis. That's not true at all. If someone has committed a crime, and let them be arrested, but anyone who opposes it, he is the one who brought us into this situation to talk today in parliament about this, he wants to amnesty in advance. That's the basic difference. There is a fundamental meaning of the difference in our approach to this debt that all health institutions have made. If we were to discuss these problems from health care facility to health care facility, we would surely stay here for a year and not tell all the problems. So, if someone points to a well-intentioned problem that I think is primarily tormented by the citizens of Serbia, and the maternity parents are not only at the Kraguje's maternity home, but everywhere, in a special state and bring little angels into the world and then expect at least health workers to have special attention to them, and I have talked about a special disregard and a special arrogance that is for every conviction.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6634	Thank you. Of course the MP should speak, you have the right to the Rules of Procedure and it is an important debate, but slowly to bring it down. It seems to me that all of their basic thesis has already been brought out. I have Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić and Olga Batic reported. I'd like to give Mrs Batic my first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6635	Just one sentence to distinguished counterpart Zoran Radovanovic. I'll name him always, at least it's a matter of some elemental culture in this home. When Mr. Radovanovic reads the stenographic notes carefully, then he will see that I asked the question. So much for Mr. Radovanovic. These stenographic notes will be received during today. I asked – how many doctors are there in Serbia and how many doctors are the people who work and who are the professionals and doctors at VMA, who gave me the answer? So it's being asked in the form of a question. When you get your stenographic notes, let me know, and we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6636	I'd like to give the word to Bojan Guric, because he's mentioned too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6637	As far as I'm concerned, this will be the end of this kind of debate. I tried to do the best I could to keep me out of politics while I was talking. I'm sorry if I caused something of your reaction. Somehow, I feel like I've been talking to the Minister of Health more. I believe she can do well to defend the interests of both the Government and the Ministry of Health, and if you ask me, your political parties as well. Please don't, I didn't doubt your expertise. I was just talking about the party setting up directors. I don't think you were here last week or a few days ago because of the work you have at the clinical center, I respect that, when we talked about public enterprises. Our objection in this way is not that he is a member of the party and that something like that should disqualify him from the director's post. I'm just saying that a member of a political party, a functionary, an MP, is harder to resist political pressure when making decisions, in this case on business. I'm not saying that those decisions are against the law. I'm just saying that, among other things, and because of such decisions, because of political pressures, the system can't function effectively, it can't reconcile its obligations and it has nothing to do with someone's expertise as a doctor. I hope you didn't put your assistant in this place just because he was a member of the LDP, but because of his expertise. If so, I respect that. According to the LDP, as you know, you have no obligation to place anyone anywhere for that. I don't even know who it's about, I don't know any details about the Nish Clinical Center. What I know about you is about your work here in Parliament, and I think I've treated you with all due respect. I won't answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6638	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6639	I just wanted to say I'd have to go to the government's session, because there are amendments on the agenda that concern this particular law. I think it's good to be there. My associate will be here and I have information that the government will last for a while, so I'll be back.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6640	Thank you. Let's have a little discussion. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6641	Thank you, fellow Gjuric. You didn't understand me, I said my deputy, the assistant, was an expert. That was the first parameter. Since you just said a very high-quality political sentence, that Minister and Professor Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic knows that she represents the interests of the SPS and these governments, I think there is no need to enter the discussion anymore, she will continue when she returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6642	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6643	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of Parliament, of this discussion that lasted for a while, I feel like a common desire for the problems that exist in Serbia in the area of health to be solved in the best possible way. We are aware that there are many of them, that they appear in different segments of the functioning of this very sensitive system, but at the same time it is certain that they are also an integral part of everything that is happening in the state of Serbia and what exists. The joint task of this government of all ministers is that each individual in his field of work should take care of the situation, in the sense that it is responsible, organised, functional and act and work for the benefit of the citizens. In this way, I also experience this set of laws that are in the field of health today, because they aim to help healthcare, to better organise, which is otherwise the request and opinion of the World Bank’s experts, to introduce financial discipline which, as established in a certain period, did not exist to an appropriate and necessary extent. When we talk about these things, then we see that in a state where Serbia cannot separate a large number of funds, and the minister has mentioned several times that it is only 250 euros per capita, laws that are ahead of us predicting that part of health care be expanded, and that, to a very sensitive part of the population. To repeat, this applies to single parents with children up to seven years of age, to introduce mandatory screening, to especially monitor the possibilities and dangers of illness, especially from carcinogenic diseases and thus develop prevention, which has not been adequately represented so far. In addition, to ensure mandatory immunisation of the population, the share of the population, for certain categories. I think that one of these approaches, which goes towards expanding health care, in conditions where we don't have enough resources to want it to, in fact, show one consistency in the policy that it has so far represented in all its activities and ministers, which is at the head of this ministry, and the consistency of the government to answer sensitive questions, in these days, in the best possible way possible. When it comes to the health system itself, it needs to be regulated with these measures, to make savings and to ensure the efficiency and quality of business. At one point, we forgot that a few, or ten or more years ago, we replaced a new system. Then we brought down certain values, not even critically many of them, and in the meantime we built new ones, except that a single system was set up that's worth money. With these measures being proposed today and these health laws, the intention is, as I am experiencing it, and I believe that citizens will also have the opportunity to make sure that they return to the health system of the values of humanity, work and responsibility, in the framework of what the state can provide. How, when one system is viewed as a whole in a way that best responds to the needs of citizens, could the minister have seen? She could see in this way that she had to bring in, that there was a particular plan of a network of health institutions, which according to the number of inhabitants, according to their allocation, according to their needs, etc., according to the needs of health institutions, in one unique and planned way to say – where, when and how much it takes, which also points to the obligation and responsibility of the directors at the head of these health institutions, that they must and that they can see the needs that will arise in some future period, and not at some point to put out the fire looking for ad hoc solutions. It also implies that there is a network plan and health institutions, a network of personnel that are needed from what can be further, in the long run, to consider where and how our health can develop. What is also very important for manual financial efficiency is that these laws introduce centralised into public procurement. It needs to implement several main objectives, which is to ensure integrity, purpose, rationality and savings. When such health care is seen as a whole, it must respond at the state level to all the obligations required by the population in order to protect its health and ensure its normal functioning. At the same time, however, there is something in these laws that has never existed before, and that is the responsibility of local self-government – therefore, both the provinces, both urban and municipal. Some wondered if it might be too soon, since local self - administrations are relatively poor, that they do not have the means to invest in health care. This sets up a whole new perception of the obligations of local self-government, from the point of view of seeking these funds. Surely there are municipalities, and as an example, I will refer to the Municipality of Vršac, which by its own means provided that the health system in that municipality works in a better way than it was referred to the Republic budget. So there are opportunities, they commit local communities to find ways to provide better health care, if they want to, protect them properly. Why not in such a positive way develop such an opinion and develop such a kind of responsibility? With this view of the situation, another significant effect is being realized, which is that conditions are being created for the business that is in line with the Budget Law that we recently adopted. What is also very important to say is that, regardless of all the findings that have been made in one way or another, and the director has been explicit when it comes to the debts that have been made, that they are not done by using them and taking them home, but for solving some of the measures within some of the health systems, that it is important to realize that this debt is being determined, which will also be encouraged and helped by the manufacturers of medicines, which will ultimately receive a certain amount of compensation for their goods, help and solve the problems of wholesalerry, which must also be highlighted and underlined here, and also, the problems of health institutions, which, otherwise, do not solve their debts in this way, is the question of how they would be able to resolve these debts, to bring them back and whether they would then be faced with a far larger and more complex problem, bringing these health institutions into a more efficient and efficient period. So the handout and repayment of debts ensure that the functioning of the system is in one normal way. In this way, seeing the entire health care system, in my opinion, indicates that at all times you have to know – who, what, how and how it works. In this way, as proposed by these laws, it is clearly defined that every state institution that has certain areas of work, by law, must do its part of the job. It is also about the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is to be carried out by pharma-economic affairs, then the Institute of Public Health, which is to deal with the analysis and planning of health and personnel, the ministry is to do its part of the job, i.e. the new envisaged administration that should also centralise new procurement. This centralized new procurement involves the work of certain professional bodies. I would especially point out something that is very important, which is that there are expert commissions, which come to the central commission itself, each in its field of work, or each in its branch of health care, must give this proposal of medicines that are the best quality. When it comes to this, it is not just about those medicines that are the best quality in terms of its price, but about those that are the best quality to protect the health of the population. I would say that even at the moment these laws are being analysed, it can be realized that the area of health care is vital, because it directly refers to people's lives, that he has a lot of problems, that the money is getting smaller and that as a people, we are getting older and more sick. I expect that, in a very balanced approach, the ministry will look into and see the state of need, the state of disease and the possibility of prevention. It's meant for this law. What I would particularly point out, which is particularly satisfying, is that it is envisaged that the health care systems and doctors of general medicine are returned to an appropriate place, reputation and importance, and thus the population is referred to this kind of health institution that is most accessible, and it can develop something that develops and prevents systematic examinations that would go towards making us less ill and that we come into a difficult health condition. In any case, we need to realize that our society is in conditions of great social need, major economic problems, which then also causes greater needs for public health protection. This system of laws, as I interpret it, has tried to analyze the situation at this point, to see how much money we have, to see how many personnel we have, as well as its possible plan, introduce order and better organization, systematization and savings. This time I'm going to connect to another area. A few days ago we had here a public hearing of the Education Development Strategy until 2020, which gives the strategy independent of political parties, but rather professional, scientific and very clear. I'm connecting this, which also gave the Ministry of Health some basics for systematic consideration of the development of healthcare in the coming period. That's what we met in the field of education. I expect it is necessary that the Ministry of Economy, therefore, primarily those ministries that basically provide economic grounds for the lives of the population, be obliged to give a plan for Serbia's development, which is not only based on loans from abroad, but are based on the own resources of the state of Serbia that we have, and we also have them in untapped capital, and in particular we have inadequate use of people who are high capacity. Anyway, I think even if I were a socialist, I'd vote for this kind of approach and for laws like this. I believe that this health minister has shown and confirmed the SPS policy, which believes that protecting the health of the population should be one of the most important segments in the country, in its policy and in accordance with this, has proposed these laws. h, I'd vote for this kind of approach and for laws like this. I believe that this health minister has shown and confirmed the SPS policy, which believes that protecting the health of the population should be one of the most important segments in the country, in its policy and in accordance with this, has proposed these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6644	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6645	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed assistant health minister, I am very sorry, but I seem to have no luck, since on the Health Committee when I have to say some important things to the minister, she's gone. Now, here we go again, when I have to talk about important things, she's not here. So, one of the colleagues here, the other day, I think it was yesterday, said she would never change with the minister, that the situation was very bad and that she wouldn't be in her skin. To be honest, the health situation is very bad, but I think it's a great thing for the health minister because whatever she does can fix things, provided she does something good. We have a situation where advanced people can criticise and actually blame everything on the DS. Again, we believe and are certain that the situation in the health care sector is being blamed by the former ministers from the URS, or G17, so the ministers appointed by Mr Dinkic. There's a health minister situation here now. She can do a lot of things, but that means keeping some of the promises that have been made. So, the following promises are made, that health care will be free and reforms will be made. We actually only have three regulations that really have nothing to do with reform. I'll try to explain what it looks like in life. I come from Capca and I have an office there. Every day comes people who can't be treated, who can't verify a health book. There wouldn't be any big problem, when I'm talking about farmers, they can't verify the book, they haven't paid the contributions and we're saying the thing's okay, but they can't treat children. That's a big problem. Children cannot verify their books because someone at the health ministry has decided, listening to Mr Dinkic, that the finance ministry cannot accept that obligation to finance the treatment. To say it can't be done, it's not in accordance with the Constitution. You have to solve this urgently. If a mother wants to treat her child for five years, you should now explain to her that she can't treat him, although just a few days ago the health minister on TV said that all children can be treated in Serbia. That's not true. You can't say things that aren't true. You have to tell the citizens the truth. How are you going to explain to the villagers that they have to pay 26,000 contributions, and that they have 10 acres of land, they have some garden, there are five, and they have to pay three contributions. Three contributions times 26 grand a year, who's gonna pay for it? Did you hear it was a drought? He has to pay the same contribution as a farmer who has 50 acres. Where's the equality now? Where's the solidarity? Where are the basic principles of health insurance? We're talking about important things here. I expected you to handle this, that we would have a serious change in the health system, a serious change in the Health Insurance Act. We don't have it here. We've got one supplement. Here's how they look at Capca at the Minister of Health. You're a good student now, you're expected to come to the exam and pass 10, to bring some reforms, to keep your promises. So you're someone who promises a lot. In return, we have a few regulations that offer us absolutely nothing, or offer us something, but not what you promised. I'm afraid it won't be a six. I'm afraid it won't even be a transitional grade. Another very important thing, and these are the problems we have. Each speaker said and presented at least 10 health problems. Now the health minister, whose time is very expensive, visits Serbia, enters the back door, finds problems. I don't think the Minister of Health, with all due respect, has time to do that. She has enough assistants, enough secretaries, enough employees who can do it for her. She has to bring very important measures into the health care system urgently, otherwise we don't have to write well. I don't know if my colleagues know, we were all at the Committee session together, the incidence of tumour disease in Serbia is approaching mortality rates. That means anyone who gets any kind of tumor will die. I'm talking about very serious and alarming things. In return, we don't have a strategy about it. We don't even have a plan what we're gonna do. We have mammographs we have to return. Why? Because we don't have enough radiologists. My question – what is the home of health in Bogatić, that's one place with Capca, the mammographer, if there is no radiologist? If the mammogram's already going, he's being followed by a radiologist. I guess there's some plan about it. Instead of dealing with screening programs, we have to return mammographs because we are unable to employ them, and in the meantime, who decides on specializations in Serbia? The Ministry of Health decides. So, you allow, you approve of specializations. Do either of you know that there is a specialisation plan in Serbia? When are we going to have more anesthesiologists? When are we gonna have more radiologists? When are we going to have more surgeons and all those key specializations that we don't have enough? During that time, we have in that same health care home the situation is that they are directed to the specialization of two dentists for specialities that are not needed at all by this home of health, they are not planned, they are not in norms. So what are we talking about now, and who has a monopoly on specializations in Serbia? Who decides that? I'm talking about the big money that's being spent. Not to mention the captainship. Talk to the doctors, I've talked to many doctors in the territory I come from, from Loznica, from Capca, from the unions, they're not satisfied with the captainial formula. They think the captainial formula must change. I'm not happy either. You know why? Because that capitation formula demotes doctors to work. Instead of distracting them, we have a situation that they will prescribe less medication for patients. Why? Because the billing of drugs comes into account for their profits, so they will naturally be demoted to prescribe drugs, or they will do the next thing, which will completely lead to the collapse of our system, send people to buy drugs for their money. Then why do we need health insurance? Let's give everyone some money, and let's treat them where they come from. There's a problem again, so there's no system. You don't offer us a system anywhere in these laws. You offer solutions to put out three fires and open six new ones. What happens when you centralize public procurement? I don't think even fellow advances support these regulations. You're going to open up management, you're going to hire your people in the administration, you're going to increase the bureaucratic apparatus, and then in three months, we're going to have a situation where there won't be any medicine in hospitals. Why? Because someone had a bad plan there. We all know what we're planning here. Who's to blame? Once again, citizens will go to buy medicines to be treated, so they will re-traffick, so the medicines from Bosnia, drugs from Romania, medicines from Hungary, and re-fund medicine and pay for it again by the citizens. So we have to start telling the truth. There must be a responsibility to the word. A few days ago, Minister Dinkic said here – we solve all health problems, we take on health debts. When the citizens hear it, they say, "It's good, it'll finally be better." It's not like that. It's really not like that. So it's a lie. We don't take debts in health care. Citizens will again, for the second time, pay what they have already paid. Citizens paid through contributions to health insurance treatment. Why should we pay the debt now? I think it's extremely correct to tell them whose debt they're paying. This bill will pay for the second time for poor hospital management, not for the homes of health, but for hospitals. Hospitals are institutions of secondary health care, whose directors are appointed by the health minister. So, he will pay for the poor staffing of Minister Dinkic and his ministers, Stankovic, and before him who he was. We have to be honest and tell them that. You know, all these executives, when they come to these places, they think -- now we're gonna do some screening programs, so we're gonna build centers, so buy this machine, and buy a magnetic resonance, and buy a scanner, and then we're gonna do a little bit of debt, so we're gonna buy a little more drugs, etc. Then, never mind, now all the people will pay for it again. I think we should give each of these problems a name and a last name. I don't think that's bad at all, that people know who they're paying for. In the end, I come to one conclusion, I think it's very important and that the citizens need to know that. The minister of education, a colleague said, took eight years to build an education strategy. If it takes the Minister of Health eight years to build a health strategy, we'll be in a very bad situation and I don't think we're writing well. I really expect you to get into the system after all. So, we need a new health insurance law and a new health care law, patient rights and medical rights. Then the Minister of Health will not look like someone who visits health institutions with a full bag of blessings, so as whoever has a problem, she blesses him, so what problem – will be solved, we understand everything. We don't see a solution anywhere, and that's why I don't think the Minister for this set of laws can get a transitional grade, even though we all expected more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6646	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6647	I'm advertising Article 107. – injury to the Assembly's dignity due to the carrying out of notorious lies and leading Serbia's public to completely wrong conclusions. In a previous discussion, the MP explicitly said that Minister Dinkic was responsible for their double payment of some of the debts made. It's a complete lie. Minister Dinkic, along with Minister Djukic Dejanovic, has made a programme on how to settle the debts found. This constant spin over having responsible ministers from the U.S.S.S. is completely incorrect. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health can't make debts, the debts can only be made by the Health Fund that has the money. Secondly, citizens will not pay for something they already paid, because a large part of the citizens, unfortunately, did not pay, because the contributions to health insurance were not paid, which means that they were mismanaged by finances in the previous period. How? So who's responsible for collecting tax revenues? The Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, run by the DS. There wasn't enough income for the Health Fund. Then when something came to the Health Fund, then you made sure that it was distributed in the way it was allocated and the debts were made. Please, there is an exact record that the debts of 2010 in the Health Fund were slightly less than five billion dinars, and today there are 25 billion dinars. Who ran the Health Fund during that time, please, ladies and gentlemen? I wouldn't say all this if you weren't going to point out every day that the minister was responsible. The person who ran the Health Fund is responsible and there are clear records. As funds have been allocated under the Health Fund, I'll still talk about it when it's my turn, but I think this is enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6648	Thank you very much. Mrs Slavica Saveljić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6649	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I want to thank my colleague for reminding us who the health ministers were in the previous period, but there is really no need for that. The representatives of the URS do not have political amnesia, we know very well who we were responsible for, and we are prepared to bear responsibility accordingly, of course. What was good in the work of our ministers, in accordance with the value system that is in force in our country, we are ready to commend, and for what was not well, we are prepared to make arguments to hear. That's why we're here, to fix the situation, but today we're not talking about the debts made by the ministers, today we're talking about the debts made by the Fund and made by the hospitals. As we've heard, these debts are 26 billion dinars. These institutions were headed by DS personnel. So I have collected the budgets of 15 major cities in Serbia, Kragujevac, Jagodina, Caca, Batocina, Lapova, Knić, Smederjevska Palanka, Gornji Milanovac and so on, I have reached fewer figures than 26 billion dinars. That's what this is all about today. So it is absolutely the responsibility of those who were at that point at the head of health institutions and the Fund, not diminishing, of course, the importance that ministers in all this should bear their share of the burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6650	Thank you. Nebojsa Zelenovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6651	Thank you. I'm very sorry, you're an experienced colleague, and I believe you've spent a long time in the health care system at your jobs, but it's tragic that you don't understand. So it's nothing personal, but you don't understand or you don't want to read. We're not paying back the Fund's debt here right now, it says in Article 4. – Obligations of health institutions, not the Fund. The fund is not a health care facility. Citizens will pay 13 billion dinars of secondary health institutions. These are general hospitals that handle 95% of cases of URS personnel. That must be known. It's pure truth, even very easily verifiable. If we understood one more thing, then, it wouldn't be nice for the citizens to think that only the DS managed the Fund over the director for the last year, for the last two years. What was the last 10 years? Who ran the Fund for the past 10 years? Did the Fund run a lady who bought cars through the Delta Car for 25 to 26 thousand euros, cars cost 12,000 euros, on a lease, for five years, at the end of the ransom? That's to say unserious things. I believe that's not even a topic right now, and I'd really like to go back to this and figure it out. So, if we don't waste our time, I think the citizens know well who ran the health care in the previous period and why health care is in the situation in which it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6652	Snow White Stojanović Plassic, I presume?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6653	Yes, of course, the replica. I'm not going to speak directly to any MP, but I saw a colleague suggesting, but she was wrong to suggest, I must tell you. So, this is about hospital debts, and who's funding hospitals, where are hospitals being financed from? Of course, from the Health Fund, every citizen doesn't have to be in health care at all. So, how do hospitals finance themselves? Normally, from the Health Fund, and the Fund is financed by raising taxpayers' funds through tax administrations. Check it out, please, the citizens of Serbia know it well. There is not a single director of the Republic Health Fund branch anywhere in Serbia that is from any other party but from the DS. So this is about the debts of hospitals and the debt of the Republic Fund made in the Republic Fund, because the Republic Fund did not pay hospitals what they spent to provide health care to citizens in certain cities. Please don't let anyone call me out to say I don't know what I'm talking about, because I always know very well what I'm talking about. Then a colleague tried to get out and say yes, but who managed the Fund for the past 10 years. I made it very clear what the debts were in 2010, and what the debts are today. So it was five billion, today it's 25 billion. Yeah, that's right, 13 billion hospitals and 13 billion debts to the Fund, so, please. If we're going to go into detail, then the deadlines for paying off the drugs were 60 days, today they're 210 days. Just one year of participation, so what patients pay for themselves is increased by one billion. In 2005, these debts that we're talking about, the specific debt of hospitals, there was nothing at all, there was zero. So the hospital's debts were zero, if you insist on them, and the debts of the Republic Fund to the pharmacies were five billion. So please inform yourself what you're talking about when you're talking about, because don't let us get into that kind of polemic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6654	"Thank you. Mr. Milana Kovacevic asked for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6655	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, was injured by Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point which the previous speaker said about. I'd just like to remind you of this home. It is indisputable that the people of 2000 wanted to change and no one disputed that. But the fact that no people asked about the transformation of capital and privatisation. The privatisation was done as it was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6656	I have to ask you, what does this have to do with this agenda point?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6657	Because the speaker himself said that the drugs from BiH, Bulgaria, etc. are being imported. The fact is he's trying to use this law to introduce some order and functioning in health care. Obviously, it wasn't right. That's what he himself admitted in his presentation and speech. The fact is that this government and the current government did not privatise "Zorka Farm", "Galeniku" etc., certain companies that came and led to such a situation as it is, "Yugormedia", etc. These are facts that are undeniable. Secondly, human policy in health homes is guided as it is guided. Next, determining the specialization of certain people and personnel is closely linked to the Ministry of Education. He ran it again in the past 12 years. No one from this committee group took part in this. These are basic facts that are irrefutable today. They have also acknowledged what is both the fact and the most beautiful would be to integrate certain objections, if not through the law, through certain amendments to improve this law. I don't need to, looking tendentically, I agree that the fact that cancer is like this in as many numbers as it is, but no one's asking why. We had a bombing in 1999, which we supported and touched, and today we give it up. Some have asked to extend the bombing in a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6658	Thank you. The word was won by Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6659	I really do thank you, and I won't be long. Let's get back to our subject and drop the bombing. So, what's this about? I have to remind my co-worker from the URS again, I'm really not gonna answer again, so to remind you, this debt-refunding bill, we're actually returning what the hospital directors are in charge of through a contract with the Fund. It is crucial, therefore, not what the Fund paid, whether it collected the contribution, or did not charge, what actions it was conducting. They're people who because of their megalomania, because of their greed, because of their own, to say, management ambitions, they're in charge of their own institutions that lead, so now we all have to pay for it. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6660	Thank you. The word has Dusan Milisavljevic, as an authorised promoter, the group's representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6661	Only the truth works, a debt made of 13.5 billion were created by the directors of a health institution, not only a secondary one, but also a tertiary one. Don't let us fool the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia who made the debt. On behalf of the DS, I've been asking for weeks to clearly state the names of those directors who made that debt. I'll tell you that in Nis, former directors of the Clinical Centre and health homes and some other health institutions have received personnel before the elections, i.e. nonmedical staff to vote for a particular party just to cross the censorship. Because I know what I'm saying, I'm asking for responsibility for these people, because they're in charge of the citizens of Serbia. So it's not true that Mr. Vuksanovic, so we don't want to defend anyone without cover, it's not Mr. Vuksanovic who made debts, he wasn't the one who ran these clinical centres, but rather the personnel who were appointed by the Ministry of Health. Another affair to return to the surface, the vaccine affair. Did only Mrs. Vukajlovic deserve to sit in that prison? Mr. Wolfie, look into this affair for the rest of your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6662	Mrs. Plassic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6663	Article 107. Rules of Procedure, misrepresentation, untrueness. It can, it's a violation of Parliament's dignity, you can't completely misinformed the citizens using the Assembly as a front. It's a violation of the Parliament's dignity, in my opinion, but it's up to you. Article 107 is not a right to replicate but to violate the dignity of the Assembly and I have the right to explain that the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6664	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6665	Therefore, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, have been injured by bringing out untruths. What lies that are, I'll tell you now. So, debts were made by hospital directors, all hospitals, but it was paid, from the Fund only to those directors who were politically alike. For example, Serbia's Clinical Centre, which led the party's favorite personnel, received for example. 300,000 dinars for the operations of overweight people. Why? Because the Director of the Clinical Center is involved in this, for example Only 200,000 dinars for a myocardial infarction. Do you consider that a logical allocation of funds? As funds were deployed there, so were the deployments throughout Serbia. All those hospital directors who weren't alike couldn't get from the Fund to pay the expenses they didn't put in their pocket, but they treated those people in the field, but only the directors got, and they turned out to be the wonderful directors of those hospitals who didn't make the debts, because they were paid for everything and everything. Those people on the ground who were directors from other parties couldn't even get for basics to cover people's health care. The Minister made it clear no one put the money in their pocket here. All that money was spent on the health needs of people across Serbia and don't talk about it now, some of them were gold, so they didn't have debts, they didn't even have contracted workers, of course, when they were approved to hire whoever they wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6666	She answered, I hope, according to the Rules of Procedure of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6667	Mr. Chairman, I understand your desire for everyone here to say what they think, but I think you've violated the Rules of Procedure because of what you've given, so I refer to Article 103 and Article 27. Article 103 defines the conditions under which an MP may contact him when he is given a word for his injury to the Rules of Procedure. So, if someone wants the right to replication, and they're referring to the Rules of Procedure, then it's abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which just happened a few times. The right to a replica may have an authorised representative or head of a parliamentary group. He can't use the Rules of Procedure to actually replicate the previous speaker, and I think that's where you broke the Rules of Procedure. What is trying to do here, completely unsuccessful, because all Serbian citizens know who has been responsible for the health system for the last eight years, everyone knows who has hired their staff in health institutions, everyone knows that if the system was bad, because it was bad, because today no one is slowing down how bad the health system is and what the tragic consequences of people's health and life, and this is the result of such a bad system, then no one can say that the minister was not responsible for it. The minister is here to propose systemic measures that will make the system better in the interests of Serbian citizens. Dale, today when it comes to the fact that what is proposed is not a sufficiently systematic solution that will remove the consequences of the management of the Ministry of Health from one party who is now trying to take off any possible responsibility for it, because that system is then, not only has it not been changed, but has been systematically deteriorated, and today we only point out that what is offered today will not fix this system that has in the previous eight years under the leadership of a party headed by the Ministry of Health has led to a complete collapse of the health system and human rights to health.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6668	Just to draw your attention as the chairman of Mrs. Kolundji, that you have called on the Rules of Procedure, which is a classic replica that you have now done. So don't let me tolerate what I've tolerated for you and everyone else. Mrs. Savelic answered, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6669	I was just about to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly has been injured by allowing, member of 107, that the MP from the DS in the same way as she interpreted the violation of the Rules of Procedures of the Members of the U.S.S.A., now so does she. I am reporting on behalf of this parliamentary group, which is said to have had a minister, that we want to take off our responsibility. We absolutely do not want to take off our responsibility, all of which are health ministers in the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and I underline, Mirko Cvetkovic, worked, is their responsibility, but it is certainly not the responsibility of a minister who is employed in the health care sector by over 20,000 workers, for this is the fault of the staff who ran the health institutions. It's not true that 95% of the people who ran health institutions were from the URS. It's a public secret that you couldn't get a work book, not even a cleaning lady if you weren't a representative of that party we talked about yesterday in terms of a particular color so we wouldn't challenge the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6670	I'd like to give a word to the next speaker, that's Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Just a little bit, Mrs. Djeric, the word is Mr. Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6671	Personally, I think that the only Queen of England is in power longer than the URS is in power at the Ministry of Health, and I ask you not to insult the dignity of both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, to say that someone else is guilty of the health system, but you. The Queen of England is only longer in power than you are in the Ministry of Health, and I can only say since 2000 you have been in all governments and do not transfer responsibility to anyone else. Take responsibility, and we advocate that everyone assumes responsibility, even the directors of the DS, if someone has committed some violation, but the highest percentage of your directors are trying to protect you now, and I urge Mr. Vukic again not to carry out selective justice, but to check and make clear the names of those people who made the debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6672	Mrs. Savelic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6673	We're proud to be in power for many years. The point of every political party is to be in power. I don't know if you're proud of being an opposition, and if the party isn't fighting for power, then it's either a singing society or a citizens' association. We will always, as long as we exist as a political option, advocate to be in power or part of power, and that is what is the essence of our fight both in parliament and elsewhere. As for responsibility, I have already said several times, we stand and share responsibility with ministers for what they did well, as we share responsibility for what was not good in the health system. When I listen to you, I really have the impression that you're not even involved in power at all, and I think that if it's easier to transfer responsibility exclusively to one political party, we're ready to take it. For responsibility, it obviously takes guts, and I'm not sure how much you have. I see you only had a prime minister and one 15 ministers, but what's that for the role that the URS played in the previous government?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6674	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that we have completed this discussion on determining responsibility and determining responsibility for what happened earlier should be left to the authorities in charge. The public of Serbia is watching and waiting to see what we will say about these laws that every citizen of Serbia is interested in. Health is not only the absence of disease, but the mental, physical and social well-being and as such, health is closely linked to economic development and sustainable development and survival. What we can say about health at this time, in these laws that are before us, health is our general interest. Of course, the changes and additions ahead of us won't suddenly solve the problems that we have, which are created in the budget. No free treatment, no free health care system, and that's what we found. Health is a very expensive investment in every country if we want it to be quality. Our objective in 2012 is certainly to have a quality health system and to have health systems and services available in the best form of each citizen. That's how we in the NS realized these changes and additions that came before us today, and in that sense we feel that we should support them in the voting day. Why? First of all, because it is an attempt to overcome existing conditions with the current state of the budget, with existing economic difficulties, the 13m-euro debt created in the budget in terms of already provided services or debt to wholesalers. That's what was used and that's what the citizens of Serbia used on this or that basis. Of course, late payments, payments lag behind, funds are mostly less or less destitute and empty, but each citizen of Serbia should be provided at a certain point in time with a certain and very quality health care service. That's what everyone stands for, and that's something that we all in political life tell citizens that we're going to stand for. In that sense, it was created that flossula about a free health system. There is no free health system, such as there is no free school system, especially non-quality, and we want quality, so both of them and they are very closely connected. So what we're going to stand for and why we're going to support in the day to vote on this law is what we think is going to solve a significant health problem in this way. It won't be permanently and finally solved, this is just one step to get closer to his solution. Secondly, because we think that some endangered categories of population will have the opportunity to get a better quality health care service, and that should be made possible, it is solidarity that binds us all, and that is what society needs to cultivate. Of course, it will be paid by some other budget bonds, but fortunately, we need to start a business so that we can all be equally healthy, because healthy society has a healthy economy, healthy society can work and healthy society needs to strive, in fact, that the health system is not maximumly exploited. Unfortunately, we've been through a difficult period, we've been through one severe social trauma and frustration of the collapse of the state, wars in the environment. I come from a city where there was a hospital that had the status of a war hospital and I know how exhausted it was personneled through medical supplies, through all the services that were provided at the time. I believe that these three laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws that are before us, should be supported, because we will make one problem smaller and more decisive. As far as responsibility is concerned, who, what, did, it's not a problem to determine. The roads of money are the easiest to track, and hopefully, when we talk about corruption that has affected all segments of society and that we are very happy to exploit again as a word, it is not the Minister of Health, and that is what some other ministries are doing. We absolutely welcome that, when it comes to corruption, especially in health care, everything that is related to such actions, names and last names, not even funds, not even some institutional names. The name and last name, who took part in it, who did it, so let him answer by name and last name because of the institution that gave him confidence that he could abuse it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6676	Thank you very much. There's Branislav Blazic on the list. As far as I can tell, he's not in the O.R. right now. Next up is Dr. Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6677	Dear Vice President, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday's discussion was carried out only with two items and what I want to say at the beginning is that I am disappointed with the wrong interpretation of my desire to point to the problems that Serbian citizens have, and for these problems I am asked by these two families, by these two patients. There was absolutely no representation of the Serbian Parliament, since it was the desire of these people to solve the problem through their example of Serbian citizens, the health ministry, so that there would be no longer anyone waiting in Serbia to be operated and to lose their lives in that waiting period. The desire is never to repeat the waiting lists for surgery in Serbia again, for pathological verification. Again, it's one big problem when you have patients who suffer from malignancy, when they enter the treatment system, and when they have to wait for the well-being of a doctor or some institution to give him a solution, which he's diagnosed with. I'll tell you that the psychological effect of a person waiting for his diagnosis, one, two days, two months, half a year, is very bad for his psyche, for his family, and it can't remain undetected, to remain unsanctioned by the Ministry of Health. Exactly, the appeal of these people provoked me to speak publicly on behalf of them, on behalf of the citizens, to say what kind of problems citizens have with the health care system we're in. A lot of people were talking in the O.R. today that the health care system is great. I'll tell you that the health care system in Serbia is very bad. Our health system would not put Serbia, the EU and the European Commission in the last place, even below Albania, even beneath Macedonia and some other countries. You can deny me, but people, experts from the EU, because they do screening analysis, analyze how it is done in Serbia. How is it possible that, in Vojvodina, in Novi Sad, which is a beautiful city, a large university center, the patients of Vojvodina are waiting to come to order for air therapy? It's a subject nobody wants to talk about. As possible, the director of the clinical center, I am giving him the opportunity for replication as well, has publicly said a little before he has replaced the director of oncology because he has not reported that one single apparatus of three air therapy apparatus is broken. What's that, then? The fact that no air therapy machine has ever worked in Nis, and waiting lists, these people are only fighting for life, my dear vice president, my dear colleagues and fellow Members, and then it's the subject, whether someone had authority or not. I am telling you, I had the authority to speak for the citizens of Serbia and I will speak for the citizens of Serbia. We need to be together, not outwitting each other, but together we need to figure out a way to solve the health problem. The problem with health care is great. Whoever deceives himself and says, "Oh, it's great, my minister is the best, he'll take care of it, I'm telling you it takes a lot of time for the health care system to work out." Neither can Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, although she is a woman with a lot of energy, has a lot of experience. It takes years, but it takes us to start working, to improve that health care system. I am aware that our country is also poor and that there is no possibility of a magic wand to solve all health problems now, but we need to make it clear what the priorities of the health care system are. Of course, fighting for children's health, women's health, is for the health of patients who suffer from malignancies. It's something that the state has to find a way to solve these problems, to move on. I will commend the President of the Assembly, Mr Stefanovic, who responded very nicely, unlike some other MPs, to act as the real speaker of parliament in a situation where a well-intentioned proposal was tabled in the Assembly, and which other MPs tried to turn their, indeed, legal capacity on another topic. That's what I'm going to end up with, so I support what he said, to get names out of the stenogram, after I've done the auth of that text, so I've been told by the professional services of the National Assembly. My intention wasn't to hurt anyone's dignity. My intention was to listen to the voice of those poor people, who are in pain, who can't get to treatment, who lose sight by waiting for someone to have mercy to operate, and he won't do it, he just wants to send them to a private office, he just wants to take the money. Dear Serbian citizens, you must know that the health care system is free of charge and don't let any of the doctors ask you for money, because for that this country separates huge funds and the state of Serbia gives free health to everyone. Anyone who dares to ask you to go to a private office, you may have the right to sue him, to report him for a corruption that is inhumane. I was making my statement yesterday, and now, I wanted to say that I've been asking a little legal questions. In the Law on the Protection of Information against Public Matter, there is a legal term for "mainly social interest". Under too much social interest and state secret can be opened in the Serbian parliament. I used my right as a national MP, to show that Serbia's citizens have problems in the health system and that it is not one person's problem, but it is a problem for a large number of patients who suffer from many diseases, for which they cannot come for treatment, but are sent to a private doctor. In Serbia for 20 years, I have not noticed a public competition for the employment of doctors. I'm trying to make it more transparent for us to get into all of this. Many young, smart children, young doctors abandon us, with a good average. The state invests in their education, education, and then they go and treat the citizens of Germany or the citizens of America. We're a poor country, but it's got great, smart, young medical students, young doctors, and it's not good not to take care of them, it's not good to just watch them leave the country and go to other countries. It is necessary to streamline the registration policy of medical schools. It is not normal for medical schools to enroll more students every year, and you have 500 unemployed at the Nis Bureau, and you have 2,000 unemployed at the Belgrade Bureau. The only public competition, which I know has been implemented, is in the city of Belgrade, and it will, for sure, piss you off, it was conducted by Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas last year, where 60 doctors registered in a public competition got their job. So, you have to follow that case. I know you don't like the Democratic Party. You don't like her president, but the good things that you do in Belgrade, you need to rephrase to the Ministry of Health, and that's how you should receive doctors in the next period, not receive them by being the director of which party, whether from the SPS or from the G 17. You only receive doctors from these parties. It doesn't matter the average, it's important that you have a party book, and it's important that you're good with some party chief in a town, and then you have doctors who are just party-painted and who aren't good experts. You have doctors with 10.0 average who leave Serbia and go and treat some other citizens or go to some small environments which is good for these small environments, Babusnica type or Black Treva, but it is much better to be in Belgrade, to be in Novi Sad or Nis. The average of 10.0 clearly points out that children should stay at reference centres, university centres and continue their careers. Mammogram theme isn't just a mammogram theme. The topic is not the household business of the Ministry of Health. It's not normal for the Japanese government to give you a donation that's very expensive and not make sure you don't have enough educated personnel. I suppose that is also the fault of Mr Vuksanovic and DS, not the Ministry of Health who could not create a pattern of health institutions and health care staff that would need to be educated, but we were brought into a situation where the expensive donation would be brought under question. I have the opportunity to co-operate with the Japanese government since she donated a set of apparatus to a clinic in Nis where I work, and I can tell you that for three months, people from the embassy are coming to check how many reviews were done with that apparatus, how are they doing with that apparatus, and what are the remarks of doctors to work with that apparatus? With respect to the Japanese peoples and the Japanese government, this is what I say publicly because I was confused when I heard that the donation of these mammographs could happen to come back to Japan. I sincerely hope that this will not happen, that the health minister in talks with the ambassador of Japan will find a solution for them to stay in Serbia. Overly they are needed in the screening programme of early breast cancer detection, which unfortunately is still present in Serbia. What I would look back at, I suppose, is that this is also an DS mistake, these are untapped loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Clinical Centres in Serbia. We are witnessing that for more than seven, eight years we have approved loans and that we have over 20m euros in appropriations only for the Clinical Centre. In a complete collection of these four clinical centres, this amount of money is much more and no one is responsible for it again. No one is responsible because someone was unable to use these funds that are extremely good, interest is extremely good, and our hospitals are old. It's nobody's fault he hasn't changed someone who's incapable of doing those projects. No one wanted to talk about it. I'm telling you, that's the same topic that I'm assuming my colleagues on the right, the coalition partners of yesterday, will say, yes, it's not our fault, it's your fault. I accept responsibility for what someone did on behalf of the DS. He'll certainly be sanctioned by our organs and law enforcement if he did anything wrong. Don't exercise selective justice and try to make people's amnesia that nobody's guilty in the health sector, and we know well and I repeat again that the only Queen of England has been in power longer than G 17 in the health sector. As far as working pharmaceutical houses, no one's ever talked about it. It's the same subject that's painful. No one's talking about this corruption, no one's talking about communicating pharmaceutical houses with a doctor. I'm in favour of introducing order in this relationship as well. It's not normal for a doctor in an office to wear a chemical pen of a pharmaceutical house, it's not normal for a doctor to have any prospectus of a pharmaceutical house in his office, it's not normal for some doctors not to get out of the plane by flying, wintering, at some conventions about the cost of a pharmaceutical house. I'm asking what kind of model pharmaceutical houses are without 90% of doctors having any communication with these pharmaceutical houses? I claim that it must be more transparent, that it must be made clearer through the law, that the doctor has no right to make any deal or contract with the pharmaceutical house. This should be given to the director of the Clinical Center or the director of the health care home, that he determines from his department who will attend a convention and be financed by some pharmaceutical house. This way, when a person finishes a job in four eyes, there may be a violation of the law. What I'm going to give as a proposal to the Ministry of Health is that through some new changes, it arranges a certain fee each pharmaceutical house gives to the directors, gives some representatives of the ministry through the purchase of some apparatus or the purchase of some drugs, that it is no longer paid by budget tax collectors. Our citizens are poor enough to pay some taxes that go black afterwards. I think Greece is the best example. She is in crisis, but she solved this problem and having information about how they solved this problem, I'm pointing to now. They reduced the 10% that every house predicted to give to any participant in the tender. To cut the price by that 10%, or some scanner or some pharmaceutical drug, and that money goes into the education of young people. So we have to run the republican government much more domestically and run the health sector. No domestic behaviour in the past at the Ministry of Health we have come to a situation where we are turning large debts into public debt and we have come to the point that due to our non-household behaviour we are bringing the health sector under the question of survival. The very measure provided for by this law, to centralise public procurement and tenders, I personally support and I think Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was amazed at how some directors treat the state money, as they spend the taxpayers' money. I'll tell you again that it's illogical to talk in the Assembly about how the Fund has made some kind of debt. So I want it to be clear. I don't want to defend anyone if he's done anything wrong. I mean, I know examples of where hospital directors made artificial debts, i.e. They were buying machines that weren't in the supply plan for that year, they weren't in the supply plan for some expensive appliances. Debts were also made by hiring nonmedical workers. At the Low Medical Center you have three thousand and some employees, of which you literally have more than half the nonmedical staff. What system can keep that going? Which system can maintain that you have 1,500 non-medical personnel. What do we need 1,500 unskilled labor forces for? We need doctors, we need nurses. We certainly need hygienists, but not in that number. At every clinic, every floor we have three, four hygienists. It's, I mean, the homeless business of these companies. It's these very directors who made this one debt that is now current and that exists. To be honest, Mr. Vuksanovic, when he came into office, took over a debt that was 18 billion dinars. This is being recorded and this can be checked, 18 billion dinars have been found in debt. After submitting his resignation two days ago, he left a debt in the fund from 14.5 billion to 15 billion. I ask the MPs not to talk like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6678	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6679	I just want to tell you for the truth that Mr. Vuskanović was doing professionally, that the word in one good professor, one expert, and that everyone's work is verifiable and that it's no problem for you to question everyone's actions in the past year, two, three, five. In the end, I will end up with one appeal from the Minister of Health for one law and another. My dears, the Health Protection Act is very old. Many ministers tried to embellish it with small paints, but there is no way, the law is old, the law is conservative, the law does not mean the current state of Serbia. The law does not foresee current problems facing Serbian citizens. Personally, on my behalf and on behalf of the DS, I call on you to make a new law that would be more comprehensive, which wouldn't just be hitting some patches on the existing law, and then, after a short time, it would start leaking again and hurting again. Serbian citizens have a big problem and we have an obligation not to compete. Health care isn't politics. I spoke yesterday, even now. I didn't want to, but I might have mentioned in some of my G17 discussions, so they had a right to a replica. When you discuss health care, there's no big policy. There shouldn't be politics here. In addition to national interests, I think that the interest of health is a national interest, that we must all together contribute to the adoption of good laws and the fight for health care to become truly functional, to become dignified, that when a citizen comes into a situation to be treated, it is made possible in a dignified way. I'll finish with one sentence, that in Serbia now is not a problem for you to get sick, the problem is to treat yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6680	Thank you. I'll use my prerogatives, since it's 1400 hours. Dr Zoran Radovanovic, Snezana Stojanović Plavsic, Jelena Travar Miljevic and Ana Novkovic were reported, not to mention Professor Poscurica, who is waiting about half an hour to get his word. We'll take a break. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6681	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We'll go after the Rules of Procedure first. The word is Jelena Travar Miljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6682	Thank you. Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I'm advocating Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which he says – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that direct address is not allowed, use of offensive expressions as well as the fact and assessment of other persons' private lives. I believe that the injured Rules of Procedure, because a colleague from another party spoke directly to colleagues from our party and categorized them, or aesthetically categorized them. If we're really in favour of gender equality, and we're not only carrying out certain measures, and if we really respect each other here, I'd remind you that neither one of us is sitting here because he doesn't know how to do anything, but because we're all as chosen as any of our colleagues, based on our abilities. On the basis of all of this, I propose that it be done in accordance with Article 109 to give notice, if the evaluations and facts relating to the private life of other persons and if addressed directly to other Members of Parliament are made, it shall read in Article 109. I also expect, and all of my colleagues will agree, that this should be responded to by the Agency for Gender Equality, because it is not right to give qualifications to colleagues in this way in a direct address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6683	Thank you, ma'am. I respect your information, that is, a performance in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as I know, the previous chairman warned him of that. (Jelena Travar Miljevic, from the place: No. I cannot claim, and therefore I appeal to all MPs that, in their presentations, they respect others and that, in their statements with due respect, they address, above all, the congregation and do not use offensive words. As far as sentence is concerned, it's still the matter of the chairman. I'm not in a position to be able to do this, and I don't want to go that far and I'm asking you to respect that. You have the right to request that an infringement of the Rules of Procedure be declared in the day of the vote, so please state your position in that regard. Are you asking us to come forward in the voting day? Yeah. ) Then the Assembly in the voting day will declare its injury to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Snezana Stojanovic Plassic, according to his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6684	I thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure, you know the content, so I don't repeat and take time. I will refer to the second part of my colleague's exposure, which refers to the unfavorable case that happened yesterday, when a colleague by name and last name defined the name and last name of a patient, along with his diagnosis, his pathological findings and other details relating to the confidentiality relationship between the patient and the doctor. I reacted yesterday, and I thought that case was over. Today I wouldn't react again if my colleague hadn't done it yesterday, after our intervention, said he was proud of what he did. And then I kept my mouth shut, and today he's in his exhibit again, instead of apologizing to the National Assembly and everyone who hurt him, he's trying to interpret the Personal Data Protection Act and say he's assessing the most important social interest. He's allowed himself to be the one to assess the greater social interest. This is a very complex question. I know cases all over Europe, when the personal data protection commissioners debated whether it could be said at all, let's say, the name of a HIV-infected patient, even if it carries the danger of infecting how many people. This is absolutely not the case. After all, we are not the ones to interpret it, but the Personal Data Protection Trustee. I mean, and I demand that my colleague apologize, first of all, to professors of the University who in a much better and different way educate future staff doctors, because it depends on the health system, and that's the basis of the health system, to apologize to doctors, because most doctors in Serbia know well that this must never be done and apologize to the National Assembly and to all of us for knowingly breaking the law and repeating on several occasions that he allows himself to violate the law, which discredits us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6685	For information, please, I was personally present when President of the National Assembly Nebojsa Stefanovic, for your information, spoke with the MP, above all, during his discussion yesterday and warned him. Today he did the same thing. I think an agreement has been reached in that sense that it does not do so in the future. You can also ask in the voting day to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6686	Yes, the chairman, it was last night and I was also present, but this happened today and a colleague who chaired the assembly did not give a warning and I reacted to it. Yes, I demand that the Assembly declare this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6687	Thank you. After the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6688	I'm advocating Article 103 with regard to Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think you've fully understood Mrs. Jelena's advertising, Travan Miljevic. She asked for a warning measure to the MP who during the search, during political confrontation of arguments used sexist arguments. Because it's not an expression of the beauty of a woman's aesthetic admiration, nor is it a topic of debate, it's an attempt to translate the relationship of the confronted sexes into a gender-unequally superior relationship. You can't, you'll let someone who's a little ethically involved, so he understands that the meaning of a decry level doesn't always understand ethically enough, when someone tells someone he's beautiful, handsome and attracts his attention. That doesn't mean a compliment. Let's say, imagine a situation where you express your condolences, when you draw such a compliment, whether it causes pleasant emotions. It is equally inappropriate to draw such an argument at a moment of serious, responsible confrontation of political views. In the context of that, you are a woman and, of course, my word here is more dominant and important. I'm sorry I took a little too long. Just as a man, I felt the need to understand this kind of communication and the fact that in the interest of declared values, gender equality is not a place in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6689	I still have to tell you that I understood what Elena was looking for. You must understand that I did not chair when it happened and now as chairman, I cannot later, it would not be appropriate, if I later made a statement. Please understand me in that sense. The word is Dusan Milisavljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6690	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament – if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP who is a member of the same parliamentary group, citing his name, last name or function. I think Mrs Plassic mentioned me in one negative context, that I did not graduate from college and where I invite future professors to raise their staff better. I will tell you very responsibly, in front of everyone, that I did my doctoral dissertation in Zurich, in one of the oldest universities, that I did a doctorate in Serbia. Please, for the sake of respect of the doctoral profession, not to involve politics in that professional part that each of us has done in one period of life and has the dignity behind it. I'm not ashamed of that period. I'm going to take the chance to tell you that absolutely it wasn't my intention to qualify anyone one way or another, given that a colleague, you can see it in a stenogram, from where I'm standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6691	We've already heard that in the previous presentation. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: OK, thank you. ( ) As far as the infringements of the Rules of Procedure are concerned, all three MPs who have come forward have not responded to the same article. So I couldn't stop them from advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think it was in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6692	I am telling you that you hurt him, given that you did not warn the MP that she commented on professional work in the Serbian Parliament of an MP, i.e. It's me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6693	Do you insist on voting on that? (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the city: No. ) The word has the People's MP Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6694	For the second time today, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96. I'm not going to quote again. That's what I pointed out to the president in the afternoon. Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic is in 14 places of the list of speakers because he did not define himself to vote for the law, nor against the law, and he won the championship and spoke fifth. So, this is Mr. Poscurica waiting two hours to get his word, and some MPs, apparently, from the opposition have a greater privilege. Please keep an eye on the time when the parliamentary group is speaking in the future. We know when the Rules of Procedure and in what way the word is received, and I really ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6695	I'll stick to this list, but I guess... (Zoran Radovanovic, from town: Replica. Just a moment to answer, so I'll give you my word. According to the Rules of Procedure, representatives of the position and opposition speak alternately. It's here in one piece, if you see it, all the speakers in the position. I guess that was the reason, but I agree with you. That's what the previous chairman did. It's not my place to justify myself now, but it's a fact now. Snow White, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Snezana Stojanović Plassic: Replica. I have to respect the order, you'll get a replica. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6696	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Dusan Milisavljevic mentioned before the break Clinical Centre and me. I need to make a small correction. So none of my appointments a few months ago are at the clinic center of a doctor's office. Of course, I made a request to the Ministry of Health. Of course I'm waiting for the personnel plan. Of course there will be competitions and that the competition will employ the best, without any party privileges. Of course I'll consult, I've already consulted with the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, and we'll arrange for them to be the best students of the current year or two or three students, to try to give students a chance at that part. Another small correction, no technical director has been replaced because he didn't report a malfunction on the machine. I've already made arrangements with the people, the repairmen to fix it, and there's no more delay in patient therapy and oncology patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6697	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6698	Thank you. I'm directly mentioned, and I'm completely misread. Not for a moment, I didn't say, nor did I imply that my colleague had any problems in his own education or in his expertise. That's not what I'm talking about. Thank him for giving me a chance to explain in the next two minutes what I meant when I said he needed to apologize to certain categories. So, to the professors of medical school, because he has damaged the dignity of professors, given that he is a colleague and himself a professor of medical school. I expect the professors of medical school to know that they must not give confidential information about patients and that they are learning about it from our young doctors who are going to wear a health system tomorrow. It's the basis of the doctor's knowledge. For this reason, I believe that my colleague has violated the dignity of the profession of a professor of medical school and therefore I expected him to owe them an apology, as well as to the citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, I said he owes an apology to the doctor's profession, because the medical profession in Serbia is made up of most great doctors who also know that they should respect and respect the confidentiality of patient information. I believe that their professional and professional dignity has been violated by this, because now the patients in Serbia can think – I will not, how to go to the doctor if they will talk to the whole public about my intimate matters tomorrow. That's why I thought he should apologize to the doctor's profession, because he rudely violated the medical code, and to the National Assembly, to all of us, because as an MP, he showed Serbian citizens that he was outside the law, that he allowed himself to interpret the laws in the wrong way and that he was proud to break the law. So, these were my thesis and not one moment, to repeat, I did not question his professional integrity or his education, which I respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6699	The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6700	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in a case that has been going on for practically 24 hours now, the only possibility of my apology would be for patients who have authorized me to speak for them. Had I not been empowered, I would have been obliged to apologize to them, for the National Assembly is not offended, nor is anyone offended. I was asked by those people who couldn't come in line for two years to operate on cataracts and two years gradually blind. I was asked to point out health problems through their example and that these problems never happen in Serbia again. It was the desire of these people to speak through their example, not to worry about the problems that ordinary citizens in Serbia have. It wasn't an evil intention. He was just saying that someone wanted to break any member of the law. My wish was to convey their dissatisfaction, because for two years they've been wandering, they've been brought back 11 times from an ophthalmological clinic in Nis with a different explanation and a man's loss of sight. It's a 71-year-old man. The man was watching yesterday with his wife my exposure and he's proud of my exposure. I don't think I broke the law by pointing to problems that plague Serbian citizens. I said I wasn't proud of breaking some law, I was proud to point out the problems that Serbian citizens have. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6701	The word is by MP Ana Novkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6702	Before the break, I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am very sorry that the chairman, who then chaired the presidency, is not here now, with all respect for the current chairman. I'm really asking for a solution to what happened before the break. Women in Serbia are having a hard time getting into politics. We have indeed fought a great fight to have 30% of us here in parliament. It should be the pride of all Serbia. That doesn't mean that someone here can demean, discriminate and violate their dignity. Yesterday, the same MP made a dangerous precedent by providing personal data and personal suffering to patients. I think this really has to be sanctioned. This, the chairman, does not apply to you personally, but we need to find a solution to this situation and that MPs in the Serbian Parliament no longer have the right to discriminate, disrespect and violate their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6703	Thank you. I think that this one of yours, especially the more beautiful sex, will be a great lesson in the future work of this assembly and that MPs treat everyone with dignity, especially the better sex. The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6704	Your Honor, I'm re-advertising Article 107, and with all due respect, I think you've really hurt him this time, because I don't think it's right to call us a better sex. We're your colleagues here, we've worked hard, and I think we're as capable as our colleagues. So I ask you to really send a message of equal opportunities from this home, because this is not the message that we send by expressing and conducting a session like this. I am terribly sorry that we allowed ourselves to speak in this way in the National Assembly, as a roof institution for the adoption of all laws, and above all, the Constitution that guarantees us equal rights and equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6705	If it really hurt you, I apologize to you with all my heart and I won't use it anymore. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6706	I just wanted to answer my question – could you, since you were not the chairman at the time, still find the possibility of a fellow MP being warned? I am very sorry that there are no MPs, primarily from his party, who are truly great gender equality fighters and women's rights, to help us endure here and that an MP who has sinned so harshly will be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6707	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6708	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's authorized representatives, we have a law ahead of us, and perhaps it would be best if I left from 24 hours ago, when we really talked about the law. I would like to point out that it is a very correct finding of the minister that it is a delicate law, a law that marks amendments to the laws already in force for a long time, and that are who we are, along with what has obviously occupied us here for several hours, with a different or uneven view of the obligations that every participant in the realisation of health services has during the previous term, has led to such discussions. That's why I think this power, this build-up of power, that these people who are now responsible for implementing health policy should do everything in any future time, from any position, power or opposition, or all that else in the same package, this kind of calling and this sort of thing no longer repeats itself. I would like to say that this is only possible if, when the law is passed, we agree on everything in time in the institutions that precede and in public debate, but also our discussions on committees and in parliament. Speaking in his exposé, the prime minister said that the government's programme represents united intentions, united programmes of the parties that have received citizens' trust, and speaking specifically about health care, said that the ultimate range and ultimate objective of health policy is free health, something that probably seems to us now as an illusion, as an abstraction, but something that we all, at least most of us in some years, know that there was, that there was something that no one would ever object to, and that is the question, despite what he put into his exposé, will we ever, if things stay like this, experience. Where are we now in the range in which we are? In order to reduce the participation of citizens in commitments, with 250 euros per capita for medical needs, and on the other hand, to welcome that when we reach that theoretical goal, which would really be the best thing and the first thing we can wish for. When we passed these laws, which we said weren't just cosmetics, that they had delicate messages in them, they probably went with a few aspects. The legislator noticed that certain changes that would reduce debt, which we know to be one aspect over 13 billion. We know that the directors, either from this party or from that party, certainly not from the party I'm talking about right now, were doing what I believe is best, in the interest of those who represented them in medical institutions, to provide citizens with a good service. How did it slip, how did it happen that they needed what they didn't need, that the Fund wouldn't admit it? Whether the Fund paid temporarily or the Fund didn't get the money, it's all something that needs to be clarified, to examine individual responsibility, and now we see how we're going to get out of this mess. Are the solutions that the law now provides for just optimal or momentary adjustment, that we can consider that a step forward, before the adoption of a roof law on public procurement and what it will try, or at least the government's intention, or most governments, I believe that all ministers think that, in some degree after global decentralisation of everything and everything, we must go to a certain degree of centralisation, so that we can keep this little money that we have and keep? That is why, despite the positive assessment of the whole legislative proposal, I will also make those views that we think we can change in the next period, that some legal projects, or waiting for a new law, or gradually entering segments of amendments to both laws, both roofed in some way, both important, improve, improve and position of doctors, who are poorly paid, and who are responsible for some phenomena and anomalies in society. We don't often need to bring this down to negligible percentages. Unfortunately, we hear that there are various very serious phenomena happening on committees, too, but the committees are the part where we stay in our story, in our conversation, it's nothing we prove on the board, and there's nothing to be confused about, but what needs to be spoken of openly and what needs to be put to the end. On the other hand, we need to help citizens get to the service faster, more efficient and cheaper, so that no one is blackmailing them for the service, to resolve the situation of private health. These are three backbones that simply need to be viewed parallelly, in a frame, because they constantly permeate each other. The legal solutions to the changes we've given give, for example, wider powers to local self-government. I wouldn't be who I am, or the parliamentary group I represent, if we didn't say that's exactly what we've been trying to do and that's exactly the ideal of organisation of the health system in Serbia. When the law is as it was passed, we were saying that this descent by vertical jurisdiction to local self-government carries certain risks. At the time of relative revenue in the budgets, because the transfer funds for these opportunities are not coming down from the Republic to local self-government, we said it would be a big problem. The local self-government budgets, from one such administration, have been progressive every year more and more, despite the fact that they are still insufficient and despite the fact that the Ministry of Health at that time gave a huge amount, six million euros or how much, for the restoration of facilities and for the acquisition of funds, something from donations, something directly from the budget pairs, to adapt health institutions at the bar to this degree of decentralisation offered. Now, apparently, we're giving them even greater authority. Whether we put a stone around their necks, telling them – you can have more doctors, more equipment, but local self-government will have to pay, will have to contribute, to provide insurance, equipment, etc. for a higher level of service? If we look at both constitutional and legal preambles, in the norms of the introductory laws, we see that this level of health care is primary, one that needs to be leveled for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, it's a good try, it's a good idea, but will local self-government have the means to do it all the way? Will some committee groups in local congregations ask themselves – why not have another infirmary, another field doctor, another home care and help and what really local self-government lacks? The state washes away from it, will not finance it budgetally or, conditionally, will accept it when conditions are created. It's a very foggy assessment, but it proves the continuity of the exercise of power in that justice in which decentralisation goes on. But we fear that this does not remain for many self-governments an unachieved goal, and then we lose that post-natal equality of access to primary health care. Of course, I'll stick to the law, and I'll try to cross all the proposed solutions in one magazine review, see what, perhaps, in another way, the amendment can change, etc. After this, I would like to add only to the emergency services issue, which is also covered by changes, where indeed the investment of local self-government must be large enough. Does it take a lot of courage to admit to ourselves that maybe the ultimate effect when it's all jumped up, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, the previous ministry interventions, when they start sneezing big homes of health, long ago socialistly made, with flat roofs, when the sanity becomes too old, when the need to get to the patient comes faster, because the world standards require us to do that, whether local self-government will have money for the sanity, for the distribution of emergency services, and the jurisdiction is given to it? She draws her responsibilities most clearly in the position of her directors, her deputies, and of the apothecary institutions, for God's sakes, and something that could also be sponsored by political action. So if that's what decentralisation is all about, then it's really not meaningful and I think that the ministry, in fact in some ideas and some solutions, should respect that fact. So that's one critical reference to this, the idea itself is good if it could be done all the way. As for the centralised procurement administration in the legislative proposal, it is attached to the ministry. The question of what the former ministry has been going through, well, one of the ministers, who is once again at the second state office, who we expected to clear up the ambiguities that we had in the time before he came at the time of the most serious questions in Serbia's health system, let's just show them through the issue of vaccination, but it wasn't just that problem. We expected the answers of this kind, even now there are a lot of advisers in the ministry of various species, on various grounds received, I know one counselor and then when it was decided that the counselor had come up with some information, some information and said in a public address on state television, that certain measures and actions should be taken, he caused how much I learned the euphoria among the ministry employees. Someone's gonna start asking questions, something's going on. Then he was released down the water, the gentleman left the profession, and there was euphoria in a small number of people, to whom this scratching, this examination of something by the ministry was not to the greatest extent appropriate. So, does the ministry, why it's an addictive sentence, answer to take over the burden of public procurement, under what's still a mortgage from the time we haven't cleared up enough, whether it's happening then or not. We're more of a proposal to deliver it to the Fund. We are not particularly fascinated by the idea that the needs of health institutions are articulated, shown through programs that will combine professionally, adapt, materially, technically adapt to public health services. If you open the site of the Institute, Batuta, who is the central roof institution, will be able to read mostly that it is an expert institution that does a lot of things, but has never done any public procurement problems anywhere. She can build a network, she can work both the intervention and around the frame, she can make a human plan. But how much sanity, x-rays, scanners, dialysis, what kind of antibiotics, that institution didn't do. So far, health institutions have been sending their demands, whether local, or directly to the central Republic Fund. So, as much as we want to discipline the Batut in a certain way and make him work, because on his site he still says that the director of the branch, the Institute for Health Protection in Kragujevac, the gentleman who left the site a year or two ago. So, such a degree of unsustainableness and trust in new jobs has the right for those who don't believe it all, to open up a question, whether it's going to be a job for someone else who will come here, and to give him the authority to do such serious things in this place, such as budgeting needs of public procurement, goods and services. There is a health analysis, planning, health monitoring, health reporting, data collection, health care, use of health care, resource database, hence, the name of so many institutions, doctors, etc., the promotion of doctors, control of infectious diseases and some service activities they are working with or without participation today. So, it's something to discuss, which may be brought into the roof by some of the changes in that order of reporting the needs of health institutions, to who will finally pay them, what we still think as a political party, as a participient in the government, to whom such discussions or requests of citizens will necessarily arise because, therefore, the most trust is given to the circumstances and is the most responsible for the functioning of the government. These conversations can exist in the government, in the ministry, because for such purposes we have our own people who are there in the form of a deputy minister or in the form of a state secretary, and that is one political decision by the person in charge to implement the party's policy that has delegated him to that place. So, you can't go with feudalization, you can't go with a narrow circle of people who will make the same decisions, and then the responsibility is heterogenically divided into everything or even proportionally, proportionately by participation in power, in political life, that it falls on one party. That's why, as much as it seems to others, it's kind of a manifesto of not getting along, that it's a demonstration of some other sighting of things, we're speaking publicly and openly of what we need to take care of, simply warning each other not to be able to happen to us, what's been happening to us in Parliament for the last few hours. We have, of course, thought about it, when the directors of this administration are appointed whether it should be the director or the two directors, it's already the picnics, it's the shades, it can always be solved because it's an indefinite member, we don't know how many there are. When it comes to staff plans, and staff plans will mainly work towards the needs of health institutions to deliver to the Institute of Public Health, they have always done so. But the question now is how objectively did the institutes and showed health needs, if we know, and so did I, and so did our entire parliamentary group, now significantly higher, and in the earlier term of office, saying that few of our own specialist professions. I've always said, everyone will know in advance what I'm saying, that specialization is the cheapest thing that can happen in health care. The doctor who goes away gets a very small history of the home institution, and the one he goes to study with gets a huge benefit from it, when he comes back, you have a finished specialist. That's why we're in a lot of deficits, which is why we have anachronic mechanisms for paying certain services. People who do certain health services with the Fund have put out more prices for their services, so by the way they pay for the individual professions that are in the deficit, we have to deal with it. We heard it ourselves, the public knows it, and the minister said, we have a problem with the use of x-rays, we don't have enough qualified people to use, we've got donor resources, we don't have experts, we can't and you can't commit them to work because they're exposed to radiation, people have to respect and postulate. What we thought the amendment should change when it comes to the human resources plan, by counting those who enter the list when the directors read their needs and when they suggest it, probably in the form of what kind of ministry they will prescribe where they have in mind that they exist in Article 79. Labour law and persons like us, MPs, ministers and other persons in the status of working relationship rest. I've been given some assurances that this will never be a problem, that it's the roof law of labor, but you never know what can wait for you. Some people, like me, had to take a work book, come to the congregation for a full - time job, because the first responsible themselves had not been able to do their job properly in their workplace, so that the job would not suffer. I think it's fair to stay away from someone, but to be on the list, and you don't work in the infirmary, or the visit, or the consultation, or the duty. On the other hand, there's a director, who if you don't do all this, can tell you today, tomorrow – I don't need you, twice a year we're doing a need plan, we're not putting you on a salary fund anymore, etc. I suggest we do this amendment intervention, because if the problem is that some new item, column, order in the plan, which has to be shown, and some Excile or something, add another column, insert the item of those people from that article. I don't just think of those who, in this way, are guarding the place where they will return, because it opens up a chance for someone else to be admitted, and guarantees a return to the workplace and, most importantly, guarantees freedom of speech to the MP, who, on behalf of the citizens, has come to speak freely, without fear of coming back to work tomorrow. Of course not all the directors in Serbia are like that, but if you think that sometimes you have to take a work book and go to permanent work in the Assembly, then it says you never know what kind of person you can come across. The dispute won, but it is stress for both MPs and for the person in office, as well as for his family, unnecessary costs for court proceedings etc. So that's something we thought maybe the amendment should intervene. That's why, considering this law, we even had on the board a discussion that Director Commora had accepted it. I don't know if she wrote the amendment, I didn't find it, maybe she accepts to make an amendment to it herself. It may seem nuanced. It's a tight problem, people. There is a small number of us doctors who are here or in some other institutions, who, as elected and appointed persons, represent some interest of the state to be in that place or the direct interest of citizens, which is the situation with MPs. They really must be protected. We have the right to have different misunderstandings between us here, but general security for our position because we express attitudes, which we sometimes and from the point of view of the opposition, are not all pleasant. For our opinion, we must be protected to the full. As for this second law, I won't take up much of your time, I mean the Health Insurance Act. When it comes to forming a central drug commission, I think it's a good thing. This commission should finally and I think that some republican expert committees have been created that need to do their job, and when it comes to procurement, I mentioned, I'm not sure that I've received adequate information, or I may not have been able to get good people passed on to me by asking and digging around the site, that there is no committee on nephrology and dialysis, but I guess it will be put together, because it's simply impossible without such a commission to operate, especially in a trend, not just drugs, but medical materials and equipment, because this commission will finally be asked. We have the Institute of Public Health, but he is fortunately bound by the opinion of the Republic Expert Commission. These republican expert committees, whatever they are by composition, I don't know the details of every commission, it's still the right of the minister to form, some powers of the minister we can't change, we can have a suggestion, but if we're not asked for an opinion when they're made, we can't even take the minister's authority. The minister can't even behave as per the perception of each of us participants, in this, so to speak conditionally to the political professional part of life. The minister is responsible for the people he sets up, and therefore those who are set up and elected there are certainly aware of the responsibilities, which in this reform attempt have, not only on the list of medicines, but also on the supply, equipment and material-technical means, because some parts of the expensive equipment are not recognised by law as medicines, but as medical means, so that if you choose a dialysis, dialysis membrane, dialysis machine, these are millions of values. There must indeed be responsible and competent people who will be aware that one of the same health care cookies is shared for everyone, that they can't get everything, and the other little, to make a balance. Interresorial co-operation among the commissions I think will be necessary, as I have seen with what I could see earlier on the commissions that exist, that there is no need to duplicate commissions in both the Fund and the Ministry, it is more than clear. Finally, this law kind of dissipated the Fund and forced it to function as some kind of banking system on a clear scale. It's not even the Fund's task to seek only the cheapest goods, because we've reached agreement on the board, it's not the cheapest medicine, even if it's in a group of drugs and the same generics, the best cure for a patient. There is a weight to the expert commissions, there should be honorable and responsible people, and if we manage to do so, and for that we need to really cooperate, including the people of the opposition, to open up the once-in-a-lifetime story of who is sitting and deciding on the fate of the sick persons and what makes it possible for them to come to the cure, though, on different lists, with different degrees of participation, that finally the medicines available to health institutions also have the advantage of not being in the home of health just penicillin and garamicin and nothing more than having the right to take some medicine and spread from the list, and not to put a patient’s hand in the pocket in a certain way, to get a better and more effective cure. Of course, if we are looking politically, the diversity in seeing coalition partners and those whose health programme is now being implemented in some way, especially excited because we hear it from primary health care doctors and can't be thrilled, if you know that up to 120 dinars can prescribe a cure twice a month, if you have to use special manipulation and the skills of the main nurses to show yourself a service that is positive and to avoid a negative fight by skillful manipulation, as if a person under 45 should not come to screening. He has to come and you can't put it under that code to confess and bring in two points. A very complicated system, and someone must have taken money for the project once to introduce something to avoid the early bird. Where are the good times where we must have chosen good directors, so he could have the director or the professional college evaluate how much the doctor does, how he does, take descriptive parameters and numerically, if he needs from the Fund which exact records as much as anyone has examined, that we don't agree. People go to different institutions three times, including some NGOs, to learn how to apply the capitulation. It's common happiness when they bring this kind of sheet into the home of health and it says, look, you've been through, but it's worth two or three months, from next year you'll have 20% or 30% less pay. Why not break, nothing written is not a red letter that cannot be changed, because the Constitution can change if necessary, not a way of rewarding towards work. Did it all show the best measure, because maybe someone had a good intention of a little Europeanizing and showing that this is how it works? The question is whether it's available, and mostly the people I'm talking to and most of the colleagues who come here, and Doctors we haven't found too satisfied, more in doubt what they're carrying. A huge misunderstanding carries a way of paying for diagnostic related groups, so I ask the minister that as it goes with the promotion of the law, the new law on the protection of the right of the patient, she tries to demonstrate to us at the public assembly at least what it will look like at secondary and tertiary level, that we know, as we didn't know about Bologna what it means when I asked the Assembly from the speaker, keep one seminar, virtual, free of charge on Zlatibor, so tell us what it looks like when you spend Bologna in life, so now no one can even think about it clearly, and many of us are witnessing that this education system is not an ideal solution, it didn't bring the expected good, and it's possible that the transition is greater. I'm just making a parallel. I'm afraid that's where we don't complicate the things that stand, if we put order into the Fund and we introduce normal prices of services or relative service prices, parities in service prices, because it's important for us to do it in order to activate the private sector, then maybe we don't have to mechanically invent some new ways of codifying doctors and their work. Sometimes only one surgical intervention or one defibrillation procedure saves a man's life, and that doesn't have a measurable price, whether it carries a successful defib one point or how much, if that's how it's done. Who's ever gonna be able to charge for that? You can't quantify in medicine, that's what I was going to say, and by saying that I actually think that at the beginning of the change that we are supporting the Ministry of Health, precisely because it's started a broader panel of talks with coalition partners, here even with open public debates about future laws, that it seems much more transparent and that we believe that we will agree on these dilemmas now publicly in front of Serbian citizens on the day when amendments are discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6709	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6710	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I will try to be as brief as possible and highlight only what is most important for these two sets of laws, which is why the SNS will also support these amendments and amendments to the law. In the amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act, what is important and what the Minister has singled out, and we agree, that is to increase the number of persons who acquire the right of the insurance company and those who are at greater risk of being ill, and so far have not been covered by health insurance. This law will cover the widest layer of the population, being in a mandatory health insurance system, which is also the principle of the modern health care system. In addition, the deadlines for which the Republic Health Insurance Fund is required to decide whether to place a medicinal product on the market or to remove the medicinal product from the list are reduced, depending on whether or not the generic medicine is on the list of medicinal products. We support the procedure for the education of the Central Committee for Medicinal Products, as well as the appointment of members of the Commission, which will contribute greatly to the professionalisation of the jobs carried out in the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget to support this set of laws will be planned in line with the possibilities of available funding provided for by the Republic Fund's plan. The Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act will certainly establish a health system that is financially sustainable and based on more rational use of public spending and cannot be seen separately from the Health Insurance Act. The biggest contribution of this law is the legal basis for the implementation of centralised public procurement, for the needs of health institutions from the government's network plan. Only the establishment of a centralised public procurement administration for the needs of health institutions will undoubtedly contribute to reducing the potential of corruption in public procurement, which was also part of the SNS pre-election programme. Amendments and additions to the law will allow vulnerable categories of citizens of health care and public spending, and the operations of health institutions will be with increased responsibility and discipline of public spending. This law regulates the way and procedure of adopting the Staff Plan of Health Institutions as the basis for the financing of employees' salaries and public salary supplements. The projected savings from 20% to 40% of these measures of law will facilitate the functioning of the health system in general. This is the first step that should be seen as the beginning of further changes in the health system, and we support the adoption of laws by emergency procedure because it was really necessary for Serbia. In the time ahead, I would like in the months to come, we expect that there will be a complete amendment to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act, which is why the Serbian Progressive Party is ready to make its full contribution. I will repeat once again that in the voting day we will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6711	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6712	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister and Assistant Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, since in the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act of this area, the same reasons have been identified by our Government and the Ministry of Health to propose the mentioned laws under urgent procedure. As we have heard from previous speakers, it is about relying on the adverse consequences of the health of the insured persons, given the missing funds for these purposes, as well as the accumulated debts of health institutions from the network's plan for large-scale drugs, amounting to about 13 billion dinars, on 30.9.2012, as well as the removal of adverse consequences under the organisation of compulsory health insurance. The reminders are working, I'm just going to say that mandatory health insurance is organised by us on the principles of the classic Bismark social security model, with contributions as a basic instrument for financing the defined volume of rights of the insured citizens. The state, through its budgets, provides, at different levels of government, province, city or municipality, continuously with funds to protect unsecured social persons, for the precise number of concrete persons, whether by paying contributions to the health insurance of those persons, the organisation of health insurance, or the payment of health services provided to these citizens, health institutions, which these services have performed. Since we know what our country is in the current situation and, roughly, over half a million people are not working, and even those who are working, that employers are not paying them compulsory contributions, all this further makes it difficult to function in the health system. By passing these laws, conditions for health care are primarily created, as we have heard, the most vulnerable categories of the population, the health system, as a financial sustainability, is established, based on rational use of public spending, because, as we know, the health care system should not be a form of consumption, but investment in a more comprehensive development of society. The amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, which is very good, extends the circle of the person who acquires the property of the insurance company, since they represent the category of population exposed to an increased risk of illness, as well as single parents with a fact of up to seven years whose monthly incomes below the incomes are determined in accordance with the law. In this way, it contributes to the widest coverage of citizens in our country, a system of compulsory health insurance. I, as well as my previous colleague, will presently, on the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act, I would say to some newspaper that the extended powers of an autonomous province, of a municipality or of a city, in order to provide conditions for a better humane structure of health institutions in their territory. Based on this authority, an autonomous province, a city or municipality, can provide financial resources to finance the employment of the required number of healthcare workers. There's an opportunity to hire our young staff doctors, medical staff. Since it is not possible to provide funds for these purposes under the contract, which each health institution concludes with the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Also, the powers of an autonomous province, city or municipality are regulated and concern the provision of funds for the employment of a larger number of health care workers, the founder of which is defined as a minimum by the standards laid down in the Health Protection Act. As we have seen in the explanation of the Ministry of Health, the proposed requirements of a large number of health institutions, as well as the founders, have been respected in order to create a legal basis for these people to be employed. The amendments and additions of the Health Protection Act, acquisition and availability by health institutions are in line with the Budgetary System Act and thus contributes to greater financial discipline in the business of health institutions from the network plan, and thus potentiates the greater responsibility of the manager, i.e. the management of those health institutions, means greater financial responsibility, as regards the funds they use and which they have. Very important newspapers in these amendments and additions to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act are central public procurements for which we, as SNS, advocated in the pre-election campaign, and we now advocate, as well as the establishment of a Central Committee on Medicinal Products, as anti-corruption measures, which will prevent, so-called "great corruption", from stealing state money and taxpayers' money, and through procurement tenders, reconstructions and so forth. Very often, in practice, we are witnessing that once, diagnostic equipment was purchased in a verse from different suppliers and manufacturers, which among other things complicates and purchases reagents and service services, so that in this way these negative side effects will be avoided. All these proposed amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act are a step forward towards improving and improving the functioning of the health system, and I hope, frankly, are the beginning of reforms in our health system and health care, so that in the day of voting, we will support these amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6713	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, you have received the resignations of the MPs Gojko Radic and Mirko Cvetkovic as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandate of these Members of Parliaments. In accordance with this, and in accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and Article 4 thereof. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time to be elected, ended, to the MPs Gojko Radic and Mirko Cvetkovic, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're moving on with the debate. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6714	Dear Presidency, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, if we are representatives of the people here as MPs, we doctors are also here as representatives of patients and future patients. From that point of view, I think what the Minister in one address to the Health Committee said was that this was, in fact, a ceasefire in Serbia's health system, that was to prevent collapses that were already recorded and that happened. With some old Chinese wisdom in which it is said – in order to make way of a thousand miles, you must take the first step. At that point, I support this effort that has been made to amend the Health Protection Act, supplement and repair, and as a party and as an individual, I will try to make a full contribution. Given that I am dealing with medicine and that in medicine, the diagnosis is an element for treatment, I will briefly refer to the question of where the money from the Health Fund, or the taxpayers, of our people, who spends it, in order to adequately respond to adequate legal solutions, to prevent the abuse that I think is visible at every step and that of the two billion euros that are about to be allocated annually from this poored people in the Health Fund, which is about 250 euros per capita, can organise the health protection of this nation at a higher level. If we consider that the prices of our doctors, our sisters' work, our medical staff are relatively low compared to the environment, that all other health care services prices are adjusted, I argue that a better organisation and better availability of money can raise the health system to a higher level. Where's the money that the taxpayers and this people single out? Is there money in patients? I don't think so. Patients have what's called the right of a patient to a list of medications that in themselves reduce patients' rights. Who's doing those drug lists? These are the men who were once appointed, who spend the money of this people, who spend both their time and this people for the making of the leaves themselves. The question arises, I don't personally get into who these people are, I really don't know a single name out there, the way they choose and the correctness of their existence all the time from the moment they were introduced. When these lists are once made, they are occasionally innovated, some medicines are added, some are taken away, do they need people to deal with this work and today, how much they cost, and how much money they spend, are these lists correct, and has anyone ever, since these lists were introduced, assessed the effect that these lists have achieved on health savings? I am ready and I suggest that one small experiment be made, that in five, six health homes in Serbia take seven, eight days, say, and see that in two, three health homes doctors are allowed to do what they think should be done by profession, by doctrine, by science, by what they have learned and to compare to two, three health homes that have worked on lists of medicines. I claim that the difference won't be significant, because I don't believe that there exists among the right doctors, to excuse those who deal with some petty fraud, people who differ significantly doctrinally in prescribing therapy. Since they are multiplely limited from the beginning, from the entry of the patient into the office and what is available to them, from diagnostics, from the laboratory, from what they can rely on among colleagues to the prescription of the drug, I don't think there's any need to limit them to what antibiotic they choose or prescribe. Patients from this medical system also have waiting lists. The waiting lists are where, but inadmissiblely long. These long waiting lists, of course, spend the money of the patients themselves, the insurance company that, while waiting for the lists, goes into private practice, and there they spend their money already allocated to health insurance. These waiting lists are generally respected zealously and perfectly well by radiologists, in people who deal with logistics, clinicians, who own in private practice their private x-rays, their private scanners, private ultrasounds, and they are very zealously doing as much as they are given to work, to a minimum. The clinician will never return the patient and say, if he's a real clinician, he has to come tomorrow, because he needs help right away. What else do they have besides waiting lists? They have instructions for walking or for harassing their elected doctor, who are also members of the previous regime, headed by the DS, voted in this House, and therefore I consider them far more responsible than those who gave the minister, because they voted together for all of this on their proposals, so that those instructions that serve as a patient who has been examined at a secondary level must return to the primary level, in order to get instructions for the specialist doctor's report on territorial protection, are very often a huge loss of money and energy for the person who is the user of that service. Remember, not all patients live next to the hospital or the health care home that prescribes it, but live in a village 20-30 km away, where the chosen doctor comes two or three times a week and stays there for several hours and does not often live in his workplace, because he was sent to another place because of the need or a sick person, so you have then that the previous regime was trying to save on what's called patient abuse. You can figure it out any way you want, but that's what it looks like. The crowds in front of individual offices and the empty waiting room in front of other offices, at the same time the same salary for everyone, I don't think they're a good motive for people who are seriously involved in clinical affairs. This is another way of spending money and driving people into private practice, and before that they paid neatly their obligations, they have certified books. The law that passed the previous regime, which refers to the transport of the diseased one, I don't know if any of the colleagues who were involved in the adoption of the law read the moment the law was passed, but it is bordered by science fiction. For example, you have an example of a patient who's been admitted to your ward, to hospital treatment, you can fire him by asking for a ride home if he's unable to drive himself, because he's disabled, so that the man who's supposed to drive home will ask his chosen doctor for a report, who comes back very rarely, and he doesn't have any relatives or near relatives to do it. Even if there is, according to the Health Care Act, for a doctor chosen or any other person to enter into the story and with a patient, to enter the service level, one who enters must have a health book, and a health book to be valid with a ID card. As it happens in practice that such a patient cannot be fired, you need to find some free ambulance or some car that goes that way, wait for a selected doctor to write it, so he can get back to the ambulance, which will translate such a patient. If I tell you it's an extraordinary generator of dissatisfaction, violence and loss of trust in the health system, I hope you'll believe me because it happens in practice. Next, if a man from another health insurance branch gets hurt, he needs medical attention on the ground of someone else, all the people who come in contact with him running away from him like he's entered the tiger's office. Everyone's afraid of what's going to happen and who's going to pay the favor. Recently, a woman from Kosovo Mitrovica was in Chačka, and one minute she had a backache. This does not fall under any medical care criteria under emergency medical intervention. The woman could not in any way be transferred to Belgrade for review, although the doctor who was invited to Kosovo Mitrovica has written the direction on the word. It was also meant to send a sanitary transport from Kosovo Mitrovica, to Sanitary Transport find a patient in Cacca and bring him to Belgrade. Turns out it was a discussion of hernia. My colleagues know what that means. Indeed, life was not at risk, but the patient was at risk, and it could have been a lasting consequence. These are examples of what happened in the previous government, or earlier, in the previous regime that passed laws that I believe did not pay attention to being implemented in practice. There's a lot of examples like this, so I think, despite the fact that it's in the plan to pass a law on the protection of patients' rights, if a doctor, who graduated from college, doesn't respect a patient and he doesn't follow what's vital to a patient, no law will force doctors and medical staff to comply with those laws, except for the medical doctrine itself. Next, are the taxpayers' money at the doctor's? I don't think they're there, either, with honest doctors at the doctors who do their job the way they learned it recently in the very renowned schools this state had. I don't think there's gonna be a problem. Those who went to school in other ways and prepared for other jobs, I believe there will be problems. Who in practice does not deal with the work as honestly and honestly, I mentioned the people who are serving, among them are biochemists, lab boys, as well as radiologists and something that has been cut off from health care and transferred to the Institute of Public Health, such as bacteriologists and those who deal with elementary diagnostics. You have a situation to make lists of medications for doctors in primary health care so they don't prescribe medicines on their minds, the type of antibiotics, and then you have bacteriologists who were transferred to the Department of Public Health, who regularly collects their services before being provided by clinicians. Then you have an attack on general practice as she gave an antibiotic, without doing an elemental wipe of the throat or any other. Have they been paid duty for over 40 hours? There's a hell of a lot of colleagues out there on duty and more than that. Of course not. The treatment effects themselves are, in my opinion, a key parameter for determining the price of health care. If someone has used everything at their disposal, made the right diagnosis, determined proper therapy, received a satisfied and healthy patient, I believe he saved money from the Health Fund. The one who tried to comply with all the complicated laws and procedures, he made a negative balance. Something else that's very illogical. If the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dinkic and the team around him, with a whole set of laws, now and in an earlier attempt to collect what is called tax and that money, all those people who are taxpayers to a jury account, that jury account is owned by RFZZ. That fund is a god-given institution that doesn't work, whose account is being deposited with money, and they're planning to. Let us allow ourselves, five, six years ago, a woman who was the director of the Health Fund and who has two billion euros in current account, according to the automation that exists in this country, to be declared manager of the year. Imagine the effort she made to raise those two billion euros to be declared manager of the year. At the same time, you have one Buddha in Požega, which has failed, robbed and completely empty, she has hired one director, who within three years managed to start and insert 250 people to receive salaries, to buy it afterwards "Metals Bank", eat and destroy again, and such a man gets his finger on the way home. He is not the manager of the year, and the one who won the two billion-euro spot is the manager of the year. Very strange motives for the award award manager of the year. How does RZO spend money? He's practically spending whatever he wants. A short while ago, the minister said the RZO did not want to accept this newly created debt made by hospitals. Imagine the RZO won't accept the debt. If it wasn't for that money, they wouldn't be working hospitals. These hospitals and these patients who have been treated and spent these 13 billion dinars or 100m euros, irrelevant and now some institution called the RZZO, which should be subject to the ministry and the state of Serbia, refuse to pay, to recognise it as a payment obligation. It's just amazing. Usually RZO's covering behind Batut. Batut is an institution that should plan public expenditure and public health. They've been doing it for 50 years, and they can't plan it. There are standards in Europe and the world that are higher and lower. You know how many patients a doctor needs to examine, you know how many patients need to serve one scanner, you know practically everything. I wonder what they're still planning, what else is unplanned, except how they're covering up intending to spend money where there's a big profit and huge losses at the same time. Profit for those who buy, losses that have deposited funds to the tax account of this country. If I were to tell you that, say, Chachak gets a scanner five, six years ago called the HR resolution, which is very good, that after a year he gets, not looking for a 16-story scanner and that he's already quite out of date for 64 slides that have been used even in this country for a long time, and that such scanners in this country are divided by my information fifteen, then I wonder what kind of planning is? If you get a bronchoscopy machine that you didn't need, which you didn't ask for, and you've been asking for five years to win, then I'm also wondering what kind of planning is it? If you have people who have tried to make a lot of money on the system of large numbers, so they've started to make various kinds of flus from bird to pig, and if the RZO, or Batut, plans that we need a huge amount of vaccine, which are not used, I don't know if they've been dumped, destroyed, or what's already happened with them, and if on TV day after day, representatives of those people who plan to do this and who are predicting various relapses, the conditions of vaccines against the flu and give someone ten to buy and none of it is, I wonder if there are any responsible in this Batutu who are planning something on that subject? What else do they do to launder money so popularly in the people? Very often equipment is serviced that is completely correct. Generally, devices that are very expensive and whose smallest service is very expensive are serviced. I happened to be on duty, so I went through an X-ray at my home office once, and I found a service invoice that would be done two days later. Of course the repairman hated coming on Monday, it was Friday, to leave an account for a service that had never been done, not on that Monday, nor did anyone take it. It's like going back to the future in a movie. I took that bill and no one ever showed up to ask what was wrong with it, who's gonna pay me my favor? From an ultra-contemporary X-ray that was won in 1999 or 2000, it left only a shirt that says "Gylardoni". All that was in there and what was called an X-ray was taken away. The servicemen came from day to day, served proper x-rays, and instead of many proper parts they inserted the old ones. When you compare the films made by the hospital in 1999 and the ones it makes ten years later, you can be ashamed of how much better the quality of that 10, 12-year-old film is than this one now. What else does Batut spend his money on when he's planning public health? We're used to making spectacles of liver transplants. In this country, I think three or four places have liver transplants, and I'm not sure that more than 30 are done all year round. Rich and stupid, those in the West long ago organized themselves for rare diseases and for what is very expensive they agreed that one thing was done by Paris, another London, the third Berlin, and we have at 30 km three institutions dealing with liver transplants that we can barely provide to be done because of various medical claims that need to be fulfilled in front of that intervention. What's interesting is that the overa booklet is entrusted to them to work, and besides people who deal with the labour market and who know exactly who's insured, who's not even with the queens who know who the little kids are and besides the parent companies that used to verify, you have to go "make a job" RZO. So, the taxpayers' money and this people's money are at the RZZO. The RZO acts like a state in the country. I wonder if anyone can command them or if they're stronger than the State, the Ministry of Health. The Institute of Public Health has long learned to follow this well and to do only easy jobs that are well paid. A little while ago, I mentioned what they were. By the way, they have unlimited personnel available. I think I have the right information, but if it's not true, it's subject to change. According to some information, RZO has the right to have employees 2.207. There are 2,190 of them, so I found them on a website. According to what is still in force in the laws of this country, they were obliged to employ among those 50 people with disabilities. They're short 30 and change. They're aware of that. Each one pays a penny of 54 thousand, I mean a month or three months, which is approximately 15,000 euros a month. Is that something that you normally tolerate in this country that has so much money? Can anyone check it out? Where else is the money? Of course, with thieves and, of course, those who are drug dealers, who get involved between hospitals and our domestic factories, not to mention import drugs. Maybe there should be their presence, if these foreign companies don't have their own representations. But the drugs that had recently been liquidated and went into bankruptcy have received huge money from the RZZO to transfer them to domestic factories that delivered the drugs to them. Neither did the factories get the money, nor did those majors survive. They made a loss and now they're in bankruptcy, and I guess somebody washed it and put it in their pocket. And something else I think is very much spending money on these people is the selection of people who are very often negative, at the level of personnel in the hospital management system. Somehow, as a rule, at least from the experience I own, the worst or the most obedient are selected for those functions. They're in a way I don't know what way they're always near power. Since it's every doctor's dream that from clinical practice, since it's difficult and responsible there, it becomes a worker of the RZO or the Institute of Public Health, I think it should put a little bit of liveliness in those institutions and transfer them to work a little bit in hospitals, because if the hospital gets a job from, say, the Public Health Service, to prepare all their papers, to get them all out of the way, so let's say six or seven months ago I was assigned to write down every patient whose chronic obstructive lung disease required hospitalisation, and I successfully or unsuccessfully cured him in the infirmary, then I think we're starting to make fun of medicine. These people who are lazy, even if they want to make a study, come into the office, so let them say one, the other, and the third that they need, or we'll have a system like in America, that by each patient, when all his rights are read to him and he does everything he needs clinically, 40 minutes fills in the other paperwork, then we'll receive 4.5 people a day, we won't receive 20. Furthermore, a major outflow of state money occurs on the still unregulated status of state and private health, because very often people who work in state hospitals only share a card card for their private offices, to do what they cannot today, tomorrow or within 30 days to do in a state institution. Something else is very interesting, volunteers specialists, and I have been one of those myself, even as such, as volunteers who cost no one anything, are not received or received by key that they have been party-defined, over the past 12 years, that they are members of the DS. A colleague from the DS mentioned earlier that it was a crime to have a pen of some pharmaceutical house or travel to the expense of a pharmaceutical house. I'd like to know, pens are less, pens are nothing to me, I wouldn't condemn that, but who are these people? Do you know these people who travel? Why don't you give them a heads-up? Is that in Nis? Is that a feature of everyone, or is that just you? The unrarely pharmaceutical houses, at least in Moravika County, are people who organize educational courses, so since the chamber never pays for the registration of some of my poor colleagues, that there aren't any of those pharmaceutical houses to organize for a lecture, they wouldn't even know what's going on in the world. So I wonder if it's too much damage if someone's wearing a pen with a sign of some pharmaceutical house? A few years ago, he tried to rationalize the spending of money, and then in the circle of my hospital, they built a drive to produce parenteral solutions. That drive was advertised to all the bells that would make huge health savings and he really started to work. If the saline solution is 0.1% NCL of the kitchen salt in a liter of water, I really wonder why it stopped working, and we started importing from the "Frezenius" or I don't know who the infusion is that costs more than anything. There's a lot of these elements for diagnosis. I tried quickly to tell you what I remembered when I was making a concept. In any case, if you fail to stop an unnecessary outflow of money, I think we're still going to fail. If you succeed, I think you'll deserve our patients and doctors to be satisfied. If they can reach their 250 euros per capita, I think they will be very happy and happy that in that amount or in a tenth of that amount, given that health care is solidarity and mutual, I think the quality of treatment will be raised to a very high level for these conditions, given that we have "cheap labour" and that we still have excellent health personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6715	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6716	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I'm going to talk about a problem where I'm looking for your assistance that one question that ladies have spoken a lot about in time, about gender equality, about trying to build into this law. I'm going to talk on purpose now about a piece that maybe we shouldn't just talk to the amendments, just so we can discuss some things with you in time, so we have less problems discussing the amendments when we talk. It refers to the solution I've offered. It contains two parts. One part of the solution is that during the period of time, which is related to family planning, during the pregnancy where the benefit was achieved only for women and during parenting, the rights of both spouses in that period. According to the current solution that exists, we have such a legal solution that only pregnant women have certain rights during that period. Why do I think this is good not only for the sake of rights, to satisfy the naked right and to deal with only theory, but also what does it mean for the future and for those families and for the future community in general and Serbia in general? I think the purpose of this whole idea is to provide a healthy environment in which newborns grow, or in which a pregnant woman maintains that pregnancy. If then we share a family with those who are insured, thanks to the affirmative measures that define this law, which are pregnant and newborn, and in the father who is in that family there is no such benefit, or support from the state. Then the question is – did we create that goal completely, which you as a doctor, in any case, understand much better than I am talking about. I don't think there should be any doubt in that part of the new solution offered. The second part of the solution offered is to extend the period from 12 months to 24 months. I accept that if you say that our health system can't keep up with it, we can make amendments to that effect, and we can go back to a 12-month solution. I'll try to explain why I think it should be extended to 24 months. From what I've heard from your colleagues, a medical expert, I've been told that for the first few years a newborn is extremely important and especially in what kind of family he grows up in and that this leaves serious consequences for his development later, and that these consequences are not only in the next few years, but that these consequences affect what kind of personality we form for the future of this country. In this regard, different medical support methods are essential. You would not now elaborate because you know it much better than I do, given the narrow profession you are working on and that there should be those families who have prepared to help Serbia fight to increase the number of babies, so that we can meet there and really increase that period of 12 months by 24 months. I would ask you to help me here, where you stand, if there are any changes that need to be made here to end. If only one part is acceptable to you, then let us change it together, lest we be left without the part that is doubtless and in which we no doubt agree with you, so that we may change this other part in due time. Furthermore, what I want to talk about is a question of even regional development. I agree with you that we should have elite health centers. However, I cannot agree with the fact that, let's say, in South Banat, we have a hospital in Pancheva, that we have a hospital in Covin, that we have a large number of hospitals in some other environments that have no basic elements to provide health care. I think that in that direction, the minister should help us make one more serious balance in that, in addition to what Novi Sad offers, besides what Kamenica offers, besides what we all say is elite, but the fact is that we are not an elite state in that sense. We have a part of the elite and the availability of this kind of health care, which is only for a small part of the citizens, especially if we consider that, say, the insurance company from Zitist or Kovačica, it is difficult to get instructions to go to Novi Sad and there is one serious responsibility for all the authorities dealing with the issue of health, no matter what level, because I don't think that health should be a matter of political points and that we need to express one much greater degree of solidarity there. In that direction, I ask you to really pay a little more attention to the team centres in your work. I don't want to talk, but there's a colleague from Covin. I've been there to see what it looks like, and I think it's devastating, given what patients are being treated, that when people come to visit them, they see it and that when they come out, I think they can come back immediately after that and ask for medical and professional support. I'm saying this as a citizen, I'm not talking like someone who's from that profession, but I'm just feeling this side of the problem and I'm asking you to help. The next thing I want to say hello is the initiative and the former government, and I hope that you, as minister, will continue to do so, is the issue of the health mediator's body. This is something that makes Serbia specific, something that makes Serbia really good grades in the international community. In that direction, I expect as an MP and as someone who deals with Roma issues, a visit already during this month, a UN representative from the Sarajevo department, where, in particular, forgive me if I make a mistake in the expression, offered support when it comes to reproductive health. In that sense, I suggest we have a two-way conversation with you. One way is to help these health mediators through one seminar, to accept this in one way and further distribute it to end users. What we'd have to pay attention to, I think it's devastating that he had 10 romans who graduated from med school, that they couldn't get a job. On the other hand, we have mediators coming right from this community who have finished primary school, and I can't quite understand it. There is my call to you, not to fire these now, but to further expand all of this, first to exhaust the opportunities for those children who are educated, who have graduated from school, to hire and thus send a clear message that all Serbian citizens should be educated, should increase the degree of education and that this is the key to getting out of poverty and the most vulnerable social categories, as well as the states of Serbia as a whole. That's what I'd like to thank you for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6717	The word has Ministerial Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6718	Your Honor, sir, is that your thoughts are absolutely in that trend that I have as a minister and a ministry and the entire government. The issues of gender equality in the context of which you spoke today are from the domain of work and work relations, and we will perform together towards this ministry. Just everything you've stood for will be our joint activity in relation to gender equality. The tendency of these changes is now that the maternity, or maternity, of a year after birth, regardless of whether or not she had any other basis for insurance, be absolutely medically provided. This is the tendency and does not apply to the right used by one or another parent after the birth of a child, it is the right of employment. With regard to the role of Roma mediators, I would completely agree with you that they are more than justifying their existence. As Minister, I fully supported all the activities on this plan and further. And ten nurse romans, who aren't employed, I'd like to hear from them, because we have a desire to really start working as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6719	MP Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6720	To be clear, I agree with you that this is part of another law and there is no dispute with it. However, if this law solves it, in this way we simply show that we do not solve certain things with a law that is a "lex specialis" for a particular situation and that it is a message to people who may not see the legal system as well as professionals, I agree with you, I can somewhat agree with that, that it is legally okay, but then I ask the question – which is why in the same other law, which regulates work and work relations, we do not say that all parents have the same rights. Why do I think it's not the matter of the Labour and Labour Act? Because we're talking about insurance companies that don't have a job and work relationship of a certain benefit, we're already talking about a category of people who don't get those rights from the Labour and Work Relations Act, but we want to give them one additional option by one other law, to create them a kind of affirmative measure. That's where we find a foothold in that part, and our goal is to protect the child, not just the maternity care. But you'll agree with me, you're a doctor, we can't protect the child unless we create a healthy environment for him. It's not enough to protect a mother during pregnancy and after pregnancy. It is necessary to protect the environment in which that child lives. What are the consequences of all this? You know that much better. My concern is that it's not just the Labour Act, because it defines one circle of people who are in a working relationship, and I'm talking about another category of faces. If I'm wrong, I accept, I just want to work it out together.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6721	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6722	Thank you. We only regulate the basics of security these changes. It's totally consistent with your thinking. When it comes to labour law and work relations, it has been given priority in the first three months of its mother. There's no gender equality, because it's exactly the expert's assessment that the mother is irreplaceable wherever she may have certain rights and for the safety of the child. I agree, since it's not the subject of this law, that you come to the Ministry, that we talk a little bit and see what our initiatives need to go towards the law, to the amendments to the Labour Law. These changes don't treat the questions you've asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6723	Thank you. On what basis, Mr. Milisavic? (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the city: He mentioned me. Replica. I didn't understand you. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: Mr. Shine mentioned me and my presentation, so I would use the right to reply. You have no right. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the city: I am right. He didn't mention you. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: Yes, he mentioned my presentation. He didn't mention you personally. You have no right. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, every citizen in Serbia must have good, quality and accessible health care. Unfortunately, reality is different. All this time while we're here, at bus stops, you'll find parents who run a sick kid or grandparents who go to a doctor, waiting for a bus, because they don't have a doctor in their place, or they don't have him at all, or he doesn't work this afternoon. Unfortunately, many villages in Serbia do not have a doctor, have a doctor once or twice a week or do not have one in the afternoon. That's why this is happening to us. I am pleased that this law provides for the possibility that local self-government from their budgets can pay the doctor. Can local self-government do that, you'll probably ask a question? Of course they can, if they have a responsible president of the municipality, if they behave rationally and thriftyly. One doctor's gross salary is about a million and a half dinars per year. I'll give you an example of my community. The new Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government of the Kovin Municipalitys annually earns about 140 million dinars more. I think it's possible that he can pay for the missing doctors in our municipality and that all locals in our municipality have adequate health care. This is what I suggested last year. Unfortunately, local self-government and health director did not want them to do so. We have an example of Panchev where the situation is similar. The people of Starcheva, Omolice, have been breaking through the thresholds for years and looking for additional doctors. The previous city government is not at their request. I hope that the new city government in Panchev will take advantage of this legal opportunity and the citizens of Starcheva, Omolitica and other places will provide the missing doctors. On the other hand, health homes had their own resources. The Covin Health Department had 20 million own funds and plus 35 million from the pharmacy. So I think that one rational consumption and the cost of these funds can solve a part of the problem. This law gives the opportunity to accept employees through norms. I really ask the Ministry of Health that when it approves workers through the normative that it does not do so in any way for administrative workers. If you look at, say, a table, the same home of health in Kovin, you'll see that he has 42 doctors and 39 nonmedical workers. The Minister said well the previous day – everyone has to work to solve this problem. First we need to look and clean up in our own backyard. We can't let health care institutions be our party employment services. There was also talk of hospitals, especially those in the province. That's what I was talking about. My colleague Shane used to say the same thing. We have, say, a great New Sad hospital, a great service. That's the way it's supposed to be, but I don't want, say, citizens of South Banat to be treated, and doctors to work in abnormal conditions, in rooms with malter off walls, where mattresses are rotten. The province is the founder of hospitals in its territory. She's setting up a board of directors, setting up directors. The province must take responsibility. I suggest, let's say, that we consider the possibility of reducing the province's administration and that the money be employed by doctors and nurses who are missing in hospitals in the province. We also heard that debt in the health care system is really big. The right to tell you I was shocked by the amount I heard. What made me happy was that the finance and health ministers did not push the problem under the rug, as did the previous prime minister and finance minister, but decided to deal with this problem decisively. This way, order is introduced into the health system. In order for the health system to be the way it's supposed to be, we all have to act responsibly. On the one hand, we have to pay regular contributions to health insurance. I absolutely agree with the minister that this should be a crime, because there's nothing you can share from an empty register. On the other hand, those who take care of money should do so responsibly, honestly, fairly, to take care of every dinar where it will be spent. It is the only way we will have a health system, or we will have Serbian citizens having good, quality and accessible health care. They'll probably be able to raise their salaries to doctors and nurses who really deserve it. Doctors and educators represent the most educated part of Serbia and deserve adequate salaries, because indeed the vast majority of them are doing the right thing. The United Regions of Serbia will support health legislation proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6725	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6726	Thank you. I would say that this law is the answer to the situation. This set of laws responds to the situation in which the state is located, as the government passed three system laws in the area of health financing that envision the introduction of significant reforms in the sector. These laws resolve the current debt and prevent new debts, as hospitals are forbidden to make purchases. What makes me particularly happy is the government's determination to talk openly about problems, to be familiar with the debt of hospitals, or the Health Insurance Fund. I am also pleased that special attention has begun to be paid to rural areas, as this precisely indicates that this government is caring for even regional development. As I said in one of the speeches, the rural part of this country takes up over 70% of the territory and lives on about 44% of the population, that 77 health homes actually cover the needs of the population in rural areas. It certainly looks forward to the fact that local self-government is given the opportunity to engage medical attention beyond the health ministry's plan, because I come from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities and one detached municipality, where, for example, we have a village with 300 residents who have doctors once a week. We will agree that this is not adequate and accessible primary health care, and local self-government as the founders of health homes can and should work to ensure that their citizens in each area have a better service. In addition, I would also like to commend the introduction that healthcare is provided to persons who provide mandatory immunisation, as well as persons who provide targeted and preventive checks, i.e. screening according to the relevant republican programmes. It is also commendable that we as a state have a screening office, it is commendable that we use EU funds and implement different programmes. I will give only one example, which is that every year about 1,500 new cases of uterus cancer are revealed in Serbia, that it is a disease that can be controlled and predictable, that prevention is much cheaper than treatment itself. Also, an average of 500 women lose their annual lives because of this disease, and it can be prevented by prevention. What's certainly critical is that it affects women in the age of 20 to 50 when they're in full power. Besides this, I think the role of our MPs is, apart from the adoption and control of law enforcement, the promotion of those rights that our citizens can achieve. It is also the role of each of us in the local community to advocate that these rights are equally available to all. Also, I welcome the determination and determination to introduce order in that segment called finance and in the coming period provide deadlines that are known and that will lead to debt not being accumulated in this way. Besides that, I think it's very important that this debt is paid every three months, because that's exactly the responsibility we're all talking about, but on the other hand, I'd like to talk about how and why these debts came about. If the answer to the centralized public procurement is to this situation, I certainly support them. I will once again point out, I welcome the government, which is determined to talk openly about all problems and try to give all citizens equal chances, especially those in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6727	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6728	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support these laws that are on the agenda today. How was it possible to come up with such system solutions, which would relieve debts, above all, Serbia's health care? Good co-operation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. The Minister has said it herself several times, and I thank her for that because that is the key when we talk about these laws. What's good about these laws? First of all, putting order into payment. So those who run hospitals will no longer be able to transfer funds from one account to another and thus overcome any losses they make. So the Budgetary System Act will also apply to health care, and I think that's very important, because this is really going to introduce order. What I want to stress is also that it will no longer be possible for healthcare institutions to be blocked because of some debt in another area and thus be unable to pay employees. This will no longer be possible, and I think it will significantly improve the work of health care institutions and give one certainty to those who work in them. Expansion of insurance rights is certainly something I welcome, because this is about categories that really need full health care. These are single parents who have children under the age of seven, it is mandatory immunization, these are definitely categories that must enjoy basic health care and, of course, screening programs. Centralised procurement is certainly something that will save the health system, as well as Serbia 20% to 40% of the resources that have been poured out this way so far. They will allow purchases to be carried out in a single system. Whether it's gonna be the Department of Health or it's gonna be with the Fund, that's something to talk about. Personally, I would prefer it to be with the Ministry of Health, because I think the ministries, the Assembly and the state institutions are still something that is under greater public control and I would like it to be there. If we don't lie, there will be enormous power concentrated in this part, and that is also some potential source of corruption, and that is why it has to be very well controlled. In any case, a single procurement will allow corruption to be reduced in hospitals and supplies to be efficient. The unique medical committees, also, that will determine the lists of medicines and, of course, what is most important and what we talked about here today, is the taking of a long medical institution, or hospital. We've already said that a 13 billion dinar debt has been made, which is a huge debt, and there's no dilemma about it, we'll all agree. As I was saying, these changes and commitment were not possible to be done without co-operation with the Ministry of Finance. I want to make it clear that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic is not doing this for the first time. In 2004, he also took over as a public debt, not from the field of health, but from pensions that were found to be unpaid, taking over the old foreign exchange savings as unpaid and taking over as a public debt also the obligation for the state to pay the citizens what they owed, which is what she did. This time it's health care and I welcome it to the fullest. Why couldn't it have been done before? I mean, first of all, because there was no agreement in the Ministry of Finance that it was one of the most important points in order to stabilise the health system. So it's not just the health ministers who are responsible. As debts have arisen, we've also talked about it. They were created by the fact that there must have been irresponsible directors. All those who were irresponsible, all who should be held accountable, of course they should be held accountable. I also call on all state authorities to examine it, because it's really inadmissible to spend something you don't have. On the other hand, we all know the health system in Serbia doesn't have enough money. We have 250 euros per capita. We only have 6% of the budget spent on health care. So it's impossible to meet all the health needs of the population. In such a situation, many directors evidently reached out to meet the needs of the population, hoping that the Fund or state would pay off those debts at that time. I repeat, they should not be appalled by responsibility, but responsibility should be questioned. Why are there still debts? Because we've defined ourselves as a solid health system. So everyone pays and everyone uses the extent to which it's possible. Unfortunately, in Serbia not all paid contributions, there was tax indiscipline and simply the Health Fund was not being filled as much as needed. In such a situation, there has been a great debt and the Health Fund itself towards hospitals and suppliers. Of course, what other colleagues have been talking about, which is that local self-government is pleased to take over the founding rights, they should do so, because they should have their share of responsibility in providing health care to citizens in the locals. But they thought they should just get something, not take responsibility. In my Leskovec, it is one of the first centers, i.e. the first local administrations to hasten to take over the founding rights, but of course investment in the home of health is not what it should be. So, responsibility is shared by local self-government and, of course, autonomous province. How's our system? The system is certainly not good and many have agreed with it today, but our system is not as bad, dear colleagues and colleagues as you said today. I'm sure the citizens won't fully agree with you that the system is just as bad. We have excellently trained, educated doctors, responsible doctors who do their job well, we have a system that works relatively well, we have a large number of lives saved in Serbia. So the system is something to fix, but it's not in any kind of disaster. I want to say that it is a very difficult role to be a health minister and I think Minister Djukic Dejanovic is aware of that. There is almost no ideal system, not almost, but there is no ideal system in the world. We all know that Barack Obama also won the election by deciding to change the health system in America. So there's almost no system in which every user will be satisfied with it. But to transfer responsibility to the health ministers that have been so far, it is truly irresponsible both to the health system and to those ministers. I want to say very openly that I remind all citizens, it is true that Mrs. Dejanovic is detecting a system that is not good, but let us remember what system the minister whom you have all called today has found. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a surgeon in my family and I remember well when he had to buy strings, privately, from his salary, which was five marks, because the strings that were in the hospital... (President: Time, Mrs. Plassic. )......................................................................................................... So the system that existed before that was much worse than it is now, now we have 50% reduced mortality in cardiovascular disease, half of the deaths in coronary units have been halved, by 13.7% is less mortality than coronary diseases, we have 4,000 built-in pacemakers in just one year. I'd like to say this, if the Clinical Center in Nis hadn't been the Clinical Center in Nis because he didn't have any artificial insemination, he didn't have cardio surgery and he didn't have a transplant. He has all this today as well as a hospital in Leskovac, which is the best hospital in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6729	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6730	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to talk about a problem facing Serbian citizens who have been avoided or exiled from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who in the previous period gained pension in Croatia, so they are pensioners. What's going on? Many of these citizens, refugees and exiled persons live here in Serbia for a number of years, have achieved health insurance here over the past few years by paying 12.3% of their pension to the Republic Health Insurance Fund. However, as of March this year, a branch of the Republic Health Insurance Fund has begun to ask those persons to give up health insurance in Croatia to extend the health insurance requirement in Serbia. When those persons went to Croatia to ask for an insurance checkout, their condition was to give up Croatian ID cards as well. Many of these people do not want to give up Croatian ID cards because they have not yet achieved their rights in Croatia, many still demand the return of their apartments, the restoration of houses, business spaces, the return of their agricultural land, foreign savings, work experience, etc. We tried to find a solution and we established communication with the Republic Health Insurance Fund, with a request to find a solution. The Republic Health Insurance Fund is calling for a convention, an agreement on social security between the SRJ and Croatia in 1997 that makes it impossible for them to have two health insurance. Now those faces are in one tear. Here, more branches of the Fund do not extend their health insurance even though these people regularly pay 12.3% of their ino pension, and they do not want to give up their ID cards in Croatia because they are losing their ability to fight for their rights. Now we're trying to see with your help to find a solution. We think that the state has the so-called right to reserve, i.e. it has the possibility to prescribe a broader scope of rights for such people who are according to the Convention and to meet them. We think that one solution should be found that these people have the opportunity to have health insurance in Serbia, without being asked to sign out of health insurance in Croatia as a condition. So, anyone who wants to pay 12.3% of his pension should pay and have insurance in Serbia, and not conditioned that he must give up his insurance in Croatia, and hence his ID cards in Croatia. In that sense, my request to you to try to find a mechanism for people to have the opportunity, to have two health insurances this in Croatia where he obtained a pension and here if he pays 12.3% of his pension. People are in big trouble. We have a gentleman's case, I'll say, Mr. Dmitra Alavana, who regularly pays 12.3% of his ino pension here in Serbia and the Vozhdovac branch regularly extended his health insurance to him for six months. It all ran until July 31st this year and then on July 31st this year, the Vozhdovac branch does not want to extend its health insurance. Now, he does not want to give up personal cards in Croatia and health insurance, and there is no possibility of continuing health insurance. Now he's four months out of health insurance, he's supposed to go to certain research and interrogations, he can't and he's in the process. I think that one solution should be found for such people, means that the so-called right of reserve is used, not strictly stick to the convention that there is only one health insurance, but that these people as a specific target group that has not yet achieved their rights in Croatia, that the state of Serbia meets them and finds that one solution, that they have the right to two health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6731	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6732	Dear MP, international health insurance conventions regulate the issue so that one person can use health insurance rights only in one place. While someone has refugee status, he can use health insurance in our country in the way you said, the moment he logs in, when he reports his residence in Serbia, he unfortunately has the right to regulate his security status by paying 12.3%. In this respect, international conventions have a higher level of obligation than our mutual agreements with Croatia. I agree with you that this is a question that we are going to have to deal with with with the Foreign Ministry because it is a very significant number of people and your initiative that I am welcome to launch the opportunity to see how we can regulate the question that you have asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6733	Mr. Linta, replica? Are you mentioned in the debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6734	I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6735	Excuse me, if there's a comment on Mr. Linta's exposure, then he's right. He tells me the vice president, Mrs. Kovac, is right. Mr. Linta, I give you my word. Please, before you start, gentlemen, I don't see why I'm nervous. There's no need to raise your voice, let's finish the session normally. I gave my word to Mr. Linty and you're welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize if one of you thinks I'm violating a certain member of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think I'm breaking it, just one brief replica of Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's presentation. You know, I agree that state agreements on international law and under the constitutions of democratic states have stronger legal power than domestic laws. It's a shame, we have examples of states signing social security agreements where the last member said that every state signatories had so-called. The right to reserve, so that one can extend the scope of the law for its citizens, rather than as prescribed by the Convention. It does not say in this agreement, unfortunately, since 1997, but regardless of what it doesn't say, I think we should find a mechanism for these people to meet just because they haven't yet exercised their rights in Croatia. I think there is, I believe, a good will for you to find this mechanism that we don't force people to have regular opportunities quite right. Since the situation is extraordinary and people are still fighting for their rights, I think your ministry, you yourself and the government, should find a mechanism for those people who want to pay 12.3% of their ino-retirement, not to be conditioned by giving up their leave in Croatia. Even that wouldn't be a problem if Croatia didn't condition them if you wanted to give up insurance in Croatia, you have to give up your ID card, so that's why the man is in the problem. If there wasn't an I.D., then that would be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6737	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6738	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister of Health, I will take the opportunity to refer briefly to the proposals of these three laws relating to the health care system. We all know that the humanity of every society is viewed by a relationship to the health care of its population. We are aware that the economic power of society dictates the allocation of resources in health care, which, unfortunately, are less than objective needs, as well as a difficult inherited situation from the past. We are all witnessing that a large part of our healthcare workers are really doing their best to provide the best possible treatment and prevention for all our citizens, starting with children through pregnant women and adults, to our oldest citizens. The PUPS parliamentary group, based on its programme definitions, is particularly interested in the health sector, because we know how well-timed and adequate health care is important for the individual's life, but also for the state of the nation in general. We therefore believe that any improvement in this area is welcome. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act provides that three other population groups will be entitled to free health care. We see a significant shift here for the better, given that this right will be given to single parents of children under the age of seven who have income below the minimum net earnings increased by 30%. Of course, this is a good move from the ministry when it comes to the crisis in which the family as an institution is in our home, often in an increased number of divorces and a larger number of out-of-wedth relationships that have just come about this situation that one parent takes care of his child. This is a good solution, and I believe that in the future, in line with financial opportunities, opportunities should be found to expand categories that could use free healthcare. The other two additions, our health care, also takes a step forward as a long-known principle – better prevented than treated, as vaccinations and preventive checks will also be financed on the burden of the state. Here there remains a obligation in the Ministry of Health to make adequate plans and programmes for these areas so that cases such as the recent ones don't happen, that mammographers stand untapped for us, and for all who work in health care and beyond, there is a task ahead to animate the population to benefit more from these prevention options. Also, these amendments and additions to the Law will create an opportunity for autonomous provinces to be more intensively involved in the health system, allowing them to finance those costs related to space, equipment and medical personnel, which the Republic does not normally finance, i.e. municipalities and cities that have opportunities, enable its citizens and a higher degree of health protection than those established by the law. The important newspaper introduced by this law is the creation of a centralised public procurement administration, which will make all public procurement systems in one place with savings, both in the process and in the price of materials, less opportunities for abuse. In addition, the health minister will be in charge of adopting a human resources plan for health institutions in the future, and there will also be reduced opportunities, irregularities in the employment of healthcare professionals in the health care system. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act also follows these solutions on the extension of the rights of certain categories given in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. In this law, key amendments are proposed by introducing a central drug commission that will deal in the future with a very important job, setting out a proposal to be found on the list of medicines and whose procurement is refunded from the Health Insurance Fund. This should contribute to the greater role of the profession in determining the list of medicines, since doctors and pharmacists themselves know best which of the medicines are really necessary in the treatment process. I only hope that future members of this central commission will do their duty honorably, on their conscience, and perhaps it would be good here to find some opportunities, that future members of the commission, other than signing a statement, will in some way commit to giving their opinion on their conscience. The third law of this package is the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutions to Large Drugs based on the acquisition of medicines. With this law, the Republic of Serbia will assume the said commitments of 13 billion dinars, from which only the Galenika company will receive 11 billion dinars. This debt created by an unfavourable exchange rate and health financing problems should be paid by the end of 2015 in 12 quarter wars and thus will be charged by the Health Fund, and the drug producers will receive liquid funds to continue their work. At the same time, the Law amending the Health Insurance Act already mentioned is intended to shorten the payment deadlines for medicines from the current 200 days to 90 days, as due in 2015. I hope that in the future these problems related to the financing of the supply of drugs and equipment will be eliminated and these debts will no longer be made to suppliers. Finally, I would like to say that PUPS MPs in Voting Day will support the proposals of these laws, but also give a suggestion to the Ministry, and it is related to the work of doctors. We are witnessing cases that the same doctor is working both in state and private practice. If we were rigorous in the adoption of anti-corruption laws in a segment to prevent conflicts of interest, I really don't see why it would allow someone to be in the most direct conflict of interest, since it often happens that the same doctor when he works in a state health institution, he makes different excuses to allow the patient to be treated in private practice. I hope that the new health minister will work on this problem in the near future, in order to improve the health care of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6739	The last registered speaker, MP Karolj Chizik, is not here. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word, or who has not yet used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic. You have three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6740	Thank you, Mr. President. A little apology, a little while ago, we weren't nervous, we were happy when you came. We've been waiting for you all day, you haven't been there, so we've had enough, so that was the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6741	I was interviewing representatives of Kosovo Serbs and the president of the Republic, just to let you know what's causing my absence from the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6742	We know, we're kidding. I just have to close this whole story down in three minutes. Just before my colleague said one thing that, and we talked about it on the Health Committee, means a 16-steel magnet and a six-steel magnet are not the difference in novelty. The sixteenth slide ends, simply anywhere. Radiology as radiology, back to law, they got the Nobel Prize for finding x-rays, for scanners, for magnets, etc. They're all branches of medicine that's made the most progress. The Chicago Congress, five days ago, has 62,000 registered participants, so the diagnostics through radiology have moved far away and has its place in the system. What's important for the law itself, or for the set of laws, is that the state realized that there was a debt, a very large debt. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Health, took over with a set of laws the conditions for taking on debt, providing savings for public procurement from 20% to 40%, related to the purchase prices of medicines, because the higher the purchase, the better the price. Health institutions will no longer be able to supply themselves, they will have their own supply plan and programme, which seems quite anti-corruption. The financial consolidation is being introduced by this set of laws. The debt, i.e. the payment time was in 2012, 250 days, 2013 will be 150 days, in 2014 will be 120 days and in 2015 90 days, all of which stimulates private pharmacies to engage in the Health Fund system and thus employ a lot more pharmacists, because each pharmacy will have to have a pharmacist in both shifts, not a pharmaceutical technician. All the extensions of rights, which are important from these three sets of laws, related to immunization, early detection, treatment and screening, as well as for single parents with children of seven years of age, it is a very important matter of this set of laws. Expansion of authority in the provinces, cities, municipalities, can only show and lead to a better and better law, a procurement plan, a plan of personnel and what I end up with, most importantly, is that republican expert commissions are introduced into the system to ask about all things, because what I didn't want to say a little before, which is that the magnet in Scandinavian countries, I end presidents in ten seconds, what the fellow doctors don't know is waiting for up to a year. Magnetic resonance is not an option that works every day, magnetic resonance isn't something a patient gets into, and a diagnosis comes out, and a VAT back. It's something that costs $3,300 in America. It's done at the end of all examinations, when you're doing lumbar spine, you're doing a set of diagnostics, so the magnet is done, if you're doing surgery, not if the patient, or the doctor, or the doctor, or the patient thinks it should, or less, radiate, which is a major medical error. What we all need to know together is that in America, for example. Paramedik is driving. There's no ambulance. We have the driver, the doctor, the nurse. In America through the Paramedic system, two technicians trained for this and that situation are leading the patient to the first hospital. That's what I end up with, since I got a minute and 30 seconds later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6743	At first, I took some of your time with my commentary. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the taking over of health care institutions by means of the purchase of medicines and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. We're going to the next item on the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission for the control of criminal sanctions, a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Do any of the promoters, or representatives of the motionor, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. We now have only one registered speaker. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6744	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honored Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us another decision very important for strengthening the integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for strengthening the civilizational flows of our society. Today we have a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. I will remind only of some important things brought by the previous Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Information of general importance, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Commissioner for Gender Equality. The commission was first educated last year, although the legal obligation has become since 2006. The composition of this committee will be three members of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee on Health and Family. Given the importance of such a decision and the aspect of gender that is very important that I wanted to put into the spotlight of my exposure, I will remind myself that, like most countries in the world, women make up a minority of the general prison population. Therefore, enforcement systems for criminal sanctions, regimes in prison institutions are almost entirely designed for the majority male population, beginning with the architecture of prison, regime, living conditions, safety procedures and the use of measures to force facilities for health care, contact with family, work and other forms of treatment. I'll remind you there's only one women's prison and it's in the town of Pogorevc. Just to tell you that the building from 1874 and thanks to the good work of the warden of that prison, an organization has been promoted in the prison facility itself. What's missing, it's a matter of controlling this commission. State aid is needed to increase the number of commanders by about 20% and develop post-penal protection. That's what needs to be taken care of. The second question, what will a prisoner or a prisoner do after leaving prison, be brought here by the Amnesty Act, and what will they be faced with? With various challenges, from family to society, from difficulty in finding work, etc. It is very important to take care of international human rights standards applied to prisoners. The international plan rarely points to the specificity of the position of women sentenced to the penalty of imprisonment. All set standards on the prisoner's position generally apply to both sexes. Even documents that regulate only women's human rights, for example, the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women and Technical Declarations and Platforms of Action do not contain provisions relating to women in prisons. Since there are no special documents for female prisoners, rules as well as for the male prison population are in force, the universal decoration of the UN Human Rights Organization. On the national plan, most countries adopted standard minimum rules and introduced provisions concerning convicted women into their laws. The study of the female prison population has shown: that women convicts are mostly from the poorer layers, that they are unemployed, with lower education, that they have children they support, that most women prisoners have been exposed to some form of violence and abuse before they arrive at detention, that women who have been in prison are much more disciplined and condemned by family and community by men, that the needs of women in prison are different from the use of men, since only they care about children, have other obligations within the family, that women in prisons are different from men's health needs, that they are particularly sensitive to child abuse. In some countries, there is a high rate of mental illness among women convicted, drug use, and suicidal tendencies. Special needs are for minor convicts, disabled women, foreign women, women who belong to different minorities. What should be the main role of this commission, which will be formed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to deal with the situation in prisons, put in criminal and correctional institutions, then take care of birth sensitivity, see if there are any special prison hospitals for convicts, take care of how personal search, nutrition, hygiene packages and all other things are conducted, how it goes with the use of leisure, what health care is, what are children's visits and all the other things. I think the Commission's competence is great. I repeat that it is a civilizational fluid and that this gives one new jurisdiction to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The establishment of a special prison for women, dating back to the past, is a very significant turning point in the history of women's imprisonment and punishment. The first prison opened in 1645 for women only in Amsterdam had the status of an institution where women of the vagrants and beggars were imprisoned, in which order and order ruled, while prisoners worked for the Dutch textile industry of the internal need. It was only in the first half of the 19th century in Europe and in the United States that the establishment of separate institutions for women and men began. I call on the proposed members of the committee to deal with these problems to take all these aspects into account. I think the situation in our prisons is quite difficult and that the recently passed Amnesty Act will not further facilitate the position of the people who are there. The DS parliamentary group will vote in favour of such a decision by the Commission, although we have only one objection, that there is only one representative of the opposition in this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-06-0.u6745	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. We're finishing work for today. We'll continue work Tuesday at 10.00 hours.
