ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6746	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6747	Thank you. At the session on December 3rd, I was prevented from attending a funeral, and MP Ivan Andric, in response to MP Dejan Radenkovic, presented several lies, which offend not only my integrity but also the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6748	Mr Trnavčević, we are now acting in accordance with Article 287. You have the right to ask a parliamentary question to a member of the government or government. You have no right to now advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zahari Trnavcevic from the place: How am I not entitled? You have no right. Please, after this part of the session is over, you'll be back later. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6749	Why did you take Mr. Trnavčević's word away?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6750	Mr. Trnavcevic is an independent MP. So in this part of the session, he has the right to ask the question of the head of the parliamentary group, or representative. We didn't get any written requests.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6751	Please take my time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6752	I'll count on you this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6753	In 2007 the Honored Chairman, colleagues and colleagues adopted the programme's Declaration on decentralisation of Governments in Serbia, in October 2007. Later, a political party falsified our programme declaration, and presented to the public Serbia that it is the bearer of ideas for decentralisation of government in Serbia, which is not true at all. This idea, which is more than needed for Serbia and such a state-run arrangement that is more than needed for Serbia, is this how it is disabling and I wonder if Serbia's citizens in the right way in the future, all of our efforts and efforts by other parties to decentralisation the government in Serbia and to regulate Serbia, as modern European countries, will be acceptable. Namely, if it is the highlight of decentralisation and therefore I have a question for Minister Verica Kalanovic, who is in charge of the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, I repeat once again, if the ultimate decentralisation of the adoption of the law on transfer, amending and supplementing the Law on Different Transfer of Funds to Local Self-Government and if the decentralisation of the introduction of statistical regions, then what remains of the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government in the future, in order to decentralised Serbia and to allow its balanced regional development. I'm sorry, I forgot to mention, perhaps under decentralisation, that political party also considers the funding of local leaders from the state register, from the state budget. Therefore, to a much greater extent than it does with members of other political parties, i.e. representatives in charge of the functioning of the authorities in the given municipalities. I'll show you what this program declaration looks like, and I'd like you to meet the Minister of State Administration, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. I hope that he will otherwise approach this problem, because Croatia currently has three times as many municipalities as Serbia has. Slovenia has more municipalities than Serbia has. Serbia has absolutely no functional region. Today, Serbia's total capital is turning around in a circle of two. In the Belgrade municipality of Savski Venac, income per capita is greater than 25 to 30 times the income, for example in Vlasotanc, Majdanpek, Shop, Bosilegrad. Is this Serbia, and is this an advocate for Serbia that is evenly developed? Does Minister Selakovic intend to hold a meeting in the future, together with representatives of political parties who advocate equal regional development and decentralisation of government in Serbia, to discuss how we will deal with these problems? It also raises questions and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. Again, I will remind you that Croatia has 10 electoral units, and that we have a law that was passed at the most unfortunate times of political robbery, stealing the electoral will of citizens. In order for Serbia to be decentralised, it is also necessary to have a different electoral law. In the previous period CESID has worked a lot to draw up a new text of the law or a proposal for a law on the selection of MPs. I think that the ministries in charge of solving these problems, above all I think of Minister Nikola Selakovic, would also be obliged to consider in the best possible way the possibility of meeting with political parties or with representatives of political parties, who advocate amendments to this law, for changing the functioning of Serbia's territorial state, for even regional development and for decentralisation of government in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6754	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6755	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, published on his site last night B92 a response from the Serbian Constitutional Court to one of their questions. The issue concerned whether the Serbian government was responding to a request from the Constitutional Court of Serbia, according to the case presented by the DSS before the Serbian Constitutional Court, to examine the legality of the Regulation on agreed conclusions. In response to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, it can be read that the government did not respond to any constitutional court requests in time, that it had exceeded the deadline. This was a requirement for the Government to be defined as regards the Regulation on the control of the crossing of the administrative line. The deadline expired on December 2nd, as 30 days earlier, the Serbian Constitutional Court sent the request to the government. The government is warned that it is in danger to be late and with answers to the remaining three requirements regarding the remaining three regulations, not to mention them now. So we have one constitutional situation, where the Constitutional Court, as the highest guardian of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is being demeaned and the government does not respond to its demands. So, one situation that is for every criticism and which is in question the functioning of the constitutional system and the constitutional order of Serbia. Of course, we can assume why the government failed to deliver its response in time to the Serbian Constitutional Court. We can assume that based on the government's behaviour and acts she took in the meantime. Rather than responding to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the government acted on the ground. So she raised the border crossing within Serbia itself. She was aware that she was violating Serbia's Constitution, especially its preamble and Article 8 on borders, and likely found that she did not answer Serbia's Constitutional Court, since there is nothing to say about his question, especially given what they are doing on the ground and how they behave. That's the facts. So the question is, what can this home do about it? What is a question and what are we looking for an explanation is why is the government deafening itself to the request of the Constitutional Court of Serbia? Why isn't he answering their questions? That's what we're looking for as a decadent response. We fear that certain procedures and methods of conduct are being introduced in this country leading to disrespect and violation of the Constitution and leading to one legal chaos and anarchy. This should be alarmed in time, that when total legal chaos occurs, other moves contrary to the requirements of the Constitutional Court of Serbia may be too late. This parliament, if it thinks it represents the idea of a rule of law, must react to such acts or to such misdemeanors, when it comes to such important matters. We understand in fact why the government does so. That is what this EU summit in Brussels also clearly tells you yesterday and today, which on the margins of its margins had a date for the Republic of Serbia, when it will begin so-called accession negotiations. We see how that happens. This is taking place in one way of demeaning, almost joking with the Serbian government. Just look at the dictionary of these possible conclusions, which will be possible today, everything is in condition. The European Council recommended to the Council of Ministers that it may adopt conclusions that may decide in March to start possible negotiations with Serbia with the EU on accession. So, to this day, we've had a lot of things in our history, but we've given the state for a possible date, for a date that might come towards the one who gives the date has really gone too far. The government's best indicator is the government's attitude towards Serbia's Constitutional Court, and that is the moment for an alarm in this parliament. That's why we're doing what we can at this point and asking this particular question to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6756	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and my question will be from the area of the rule of law. In fact, in recent days, we have witnessed an organized and coordinated attack on everyone who thinks differently from a group of estremists who, among other things, gathered a few days ago and outside this congregation. We are witnessing the continued creation of lists of non-patriot organizations, individuals and the media. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice – when and how will the institutions of the ministry, i.e. institutions dealing with the ministry, such as the prosecution, take steps against those who promote intolerance, those who threaten the right to association, those who narrow down the right to information and freedom of thought. These are very serious threats to this society, and so far we are very familiar with the consequences of such threats the moment they are implemented into action. I'm not asking Mr. Justice Minister, because his attitude towards these extreme organizations showed on the street when he joined them, so he can't be objective in assessing those threats. I ask the Ministry as an institution, because the institutions of the state must be those who protect the rights of all citizens equally. Also, I have to say that yesterday a report on the position of human rights defenders has been published and, at the same time, on the position of human rights in our country. The report was also condemned in one way that is absolutely inappropriate, not by the state institutions, but by one political option. I am simply anxious to quote Mr. Sasu Jankovic's Citizen, because I fear that if I quote him, he will become the object of this kind of attack. In the Human Rights Day report, he said the following -- weak institutions with strong individuals, the power of political will and the results of a public opinion survey on the rule of law, media wars and populistism, and bureaucracy and formalism, are the biggest obstacles to the full achievement of human rights and the rule of law in Serbia. What will the Justice Department do about this? At the same time, the Citizens' Protector informs us that a new increase in citizens' complaints has been recorded, by 4153 or 30%. So, the whole system acts like that to citizens that the number of their complaints is increasing, 30% is the increase in the last year. It's a scary piece of information we have to take care of. This congregation has to take care of that. The lists end with death threats to members of the Constitutional Court. That's not the highlight. The peak came after that, when a list was made which was obviously a photocopy of a list and probably caused the joy of many here present, one of the lists Mr. Seselj used to wave here in the Assembly, and these are all those who receive help from the U.S. State Department. I am convinced that our defence minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister have now had the opportunity to discuss it in Washington, who they are helping and why they are helping them. I have no doubt that this topic will open as very important to our country at all. In the end, I have one quick question, and that's all in line with the questions with the lists being made. I am sorry that the President of the Assembly is not present right now, but the president of the Assembly has, in my opinion, committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure by publishing the names of the people who voted against the ODKD and declaring them opponents of Russia. First of all, as far as I know, who votes and poops to committees isn't public information. Is it? I'm sorry, but I don't have in the record of the Education Committee never the names of who voted, but we have the results of the vote - seven, three. The sessions are public and the vote is public, of course. I don't think we should hide it. On the contrary, I think that those who voted on their conscience and political definition and that's certainly important, but at the same time I want to know that... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that those who voted "for" are friends of Russia, which means the enemies of the rest of Europe and the world. I'm also sure it was the subject of the U.S. Defence Minister's talks, who's against Russia and who's against these others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6758	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6759	The President-in-Office, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my question is not about high policy, it is about the problems of ordinary citizens and citizens I come from. I come from the municipality of Kučevo, which is known for its greatest Serbian actress, Žanki Stokic, poet, Stevan Raičković and singer of fun music, Djorđa Marijanović, and natural beauty that is almost not present in this part of Europe. The locals of my place have serious problems dating back to 2004, and they have happened by making the review committee at health institutions in Serbia, as well as for stationary treatment, moved from Kučeva to Petrovac to Mlava. I thank the management of the Petrovic Municipality of Mlava for its help, but it is not enough for patients to exercise their rights and, in practice, that commission to return to my municipality. The question was asked by the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Fund – what is the problem? The problem is that the house of health in Kučev has quality doctors and specialists and can be educated by the commission to make patients exercise their rights faster and allow them to review in better quality health institutions in Serbia. Unfortunately, in a situation like this, since Petrovac is 30 km away from Kučev, there is no regular bus line to Petrovac, practically the townspeople of my city are in a discriminatory position compared to other locals in neighbouring municipalities. Please, since more demands have been made to both the Ministry and the Republic Health Insurance Fund, so that this problem can be resolved, so that citizens can exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6760	Thank you. Would any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to ask a question, in accordance with Article 287? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nebojsa Stefanovic, Bojana Bozanic, Natasa Vukkovic and Konstantin Samofalov. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in the details of the first item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the proposer, Istvan Pastor, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Zoran Radoman, a member of the province's government and the regional secretary for finance and Milorad Gasic, secretary of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the first item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON BUDGETS SYSTEM. You have received an amendment submitted by MPs: Slobodan Samardzic, Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradovic and Milos Aligrudic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government on the tabled amendment. I remind you that MP Srdjan Shine, in writing, has withdrawn the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's Messenger Zechariah Trnavčević, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6761	Thank you very much. I care very much about the revision of the December 3rd session, because MP Ivan Andric has said a number of false things that offend not only my personal integrity, but also the reputation of this National Assembly, and it is also that I was the subject of the sale or agreed to leave the LDP Parliament Club for the position of the false president of the National Agricultural Policy Council. I must tell the MPs that I am as the oldest MP, opening up a meeting, said that Serbia is expecting jobs that are of their own importance that cross the party's interest and require one full style. On that occasion, I invited all the MPs to pay attention to agriculture. Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic has accepted my proposal to establish the National Agrarian Council and has appointed me on my proposal and a proposal for the president of the council. Therefore, this advice is not false, as Mr Ivan Andric said here in the National Assembly. In a short time, this House of the National Assembly will receive a draft strategy, I hope the government will forward it here. So we're doing a very important job. Among other things, he said that by mistake, Malten, I was on the list during the election of the Turnover coalition and that he would be happy if it stays so, etc. It's, of course, his right to qualify as he will, but the fact is that I'm not for trade or anything, because I'm doing this job as president of the National Agricultural Council without compensation, but for honor, patriotism and patriotic reasons... (President: Time. ) Please, the chairman, to enter this into the record and say – Zaharija Trnavcevic has been evicted from the coalition and parliamentary club LDP... (President: Time, Mr. Trnavciæević. )......................................................................................................... Because of the primitive principle, the one who is not with us, is against us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6762	Thank you, Mr. Trnavci. I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. If you'd like to make a statement in the Rules of Procedure vote, that's what we'll do. (Zahari Trnavčević, from the place: Yes, I want you to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6763	You've hurt your ankle. 106th and 107th. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica. If someone isn't in the session to direct the replica, then you can't give them the right to the Rules of Procedure at a time when we don't adopt the minutes. Are we adopting today, is the minutes now on the agenda? Mr. Andric did not say that Mr. Zaharija Trnavcevic is the false president of the Agriculture Council, but the president of the false Agriculture Council, to be more accurate. I don't want to argue with Mr. Trnavčević. After all, the electoral next time in the election will say everything. But don't let such a breach of the Rules of Procedure. When there's a replica, then there's got to be a replica. We're not adopting the record. You allow a replica five days later or seven days later. Excuse me, what does this look like? Let's work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6764	Thank you. Mr. Trnavcevic came forward about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I gave him my word, not his replica. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Just tell me on what grounds, by hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: After the amendment. ) Just let me read the amendment before I give you my word. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradovic and Milos Aligrudic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has accepted the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6765	Thank you. Today's debate, almost 10 days after the adoption of the 2013 budget, actually, today's debate in particular and each of the amendments submitted, tells us that we were right when we started the debate on this law in principle, that putting this law in general on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament was a marketing trick and was a farce, given that the budget was adopted 10 days ago, which clearly shows the intention of the president of the Assembly and representatives of the assembly majority not to debate this law at all in a serious way and that it is not given the same treatment as the proposals of the laws that come from the other legislators. Namely, if now that the day of voting is and we adopt this bill, which was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, with or without amendments, that would mean that we would have to change the budget for 2013. We were clearly told several times during the budget debate that this was out of the question. I believe that today's debate, according to amendments to a law that has no meaning for this Assembly, is absolutely unnecessary, given that this act is absolutely humiliated by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina as a constitutionally authorised legislator. That's something this National Assembly shouldn't have allowed, and that's something we warned about. Today it turns out we were right. That is why we will not participate in the debate on the amendments, given that a budget was adopted 10 days ago. The entire proposal of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and 120 people working in it and two million citizens choosing the assembly is absolutely unthinkable.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6766	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6767	I would like to express my satisfaction at the beginning with the fact that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina adopted the DSS amendment to this bill. As far as we're concerned, it only changed the nature of this bill that you proposed and gave it a new quality. Our amendment reads that public income and income, public expenditure and expenditure on the territory of autonomous provinces are particularly recorded. The purpose of such an amendment proposed by the DSS is to show the total revenues and expenditures of the provinces in Serbia, and in this case I am talking about the province of Vojvodina, for a reason to finally see how much you get. For us at the DSS, it's not controversial, let me mention, once again, 7% under the Constitution. The only time those funds were paid was during the government of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, not during the government in which you all participated together during the previous period when you recut Vojvodina. That's a fact. We need to repeat that all the objections, complaints and debates we hear here, first of all, you need to look yourself in the mirror and in the eyes and say that you are the most responsible for bringing the province of Vojvodina into this situation to get less than 7%. What we have now is a continuity that has continued since that period that was during the last government. Now you expect the parties that seemed the last government and this government to behave differently in this government than in the previous one. They act exactly the same way. She was expecting a situation like this. It's your problem that you back that government back then, you don't support this one now, and this is now an opportunity for a political conflict and to create a political problem in a situation where a part of the government in Vojvodina behaves completely unaccountable and irresponsiblely. He acted irresponsiblely then. He's being irresponsible right now. If you agreed to get less than 7% then, why are you making a problem now? The motives are political, and it is not the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina in the first plan. If the citizens of Vojvodina were interested in the first plan, you would have acted the same way two years ago, and three years ago when you received less than 7%. This question is no longer in the field of the Constitution, the law, this is now a story in the field of politics. Someone's trying to make this 7% a serious political problem where they're threatening not to talk about Vojvodina, but to negotiate. It's like we're not in the same state and it's as if the Constitution of Serbia doesn't apply to all of us, but someone wants to negotiate about Vojvodina. Serbia will not negotiate on Vojvodina. We duchess won't let that happen. Vojvodina is part of Serbia and will always be. Vojvodina will not be negotiated in Serbia. This is where we'll talk, but you must be aware and bear the consequences of what you've been doing in the last few years, so that we can all sit down and agree that we will bring Vojvodina's incomes into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the subject and the fact is. Maybe you're right when you say that by putting this law, by discussing or voting on this law, after the Budget Law, it's completely pointless. The bill, which had to be passed, even if it was rejected or not adopted in the Assembly, had to be before the Budget Law, and not to vote on it after it was completely meaningless. We could have voted on this bill before the Budget Law. Of course, he wouldn't be adopted then, as he won't be now, but she had some procedure and some order of steps to respect. Here, the order of steps is not respected, and it goes to the majority in the ruling coalition, but it had to be said before the budget vote – we don't agree to this, 7% of us are counting on it in the way it's foreseen by the budget, and that's what we accept. What we asked for in this amendment is to determine the total revenues and expenditures incurred by the provinces, in this case the province of Vojvodina, of all incomes collected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's something that's fundamental to us so that we can discuss Vojvodina's revenues in the future. If we had that, we would have known how funds from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund were spent, not that this year's report was submitted for the period from 2006 to 2009, although it is under the obligation each year to submit a report. There's no control and no record. These are funds transferred to those 7% of the Republic of Serbia. That's one thing. The second thing, we warned during the debate on the situation at Vojvodina Development Bank. The province government has, however, made a decision to be in charge, to scrutinise 150m euros into the Vojvodina Development Bank and then again decide on what Minister Dinkic was saying, and on a proposal proposed by the new Financial System Protection Act, that Vojvodina Development Bank be assigned to another bank. So you managed to spend money and do what you could without spending that money. We are in a situation where we have one government in Vojvodina that spends the money of citizens, they are being spent on achieving the political goal of creating Vojvodina as an ambience that can be on the way to separation from Serbia, creating an ambience that leads to Vojvodina getting attributes of statehood. Not by implementing the Constitutional Court decision, the Constitutional Court did not say that the financing of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts should be abolished, but that the province does not have the right to establish, and therefore to finance. You will find parallel sources for funding the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences. That doesn't have to be out of the budget. You will turn your hand to some public enterprises that will be sponsors of this academy. We didn't do anything, we'll get into a situation where this academy exists as an institution that represents an attribute of the statehood of the province of Vojvodina, which is someone's goal. Someone's goal is to negotiate the province of Vojvodina and not talk. This is where we should also talk about respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the financing of Vojvodina and respecting the Constitution around those 7%, to establish the correct list of revenues and expenditures of the province of Vojvodina so that we can have insight into how these money is spent. We don't want to decide that. It's on the citizens of Vojvodina, but we have to have some insight into how that money is spent. These are the money coming from the Republic of Serbia's budget and we as MPs, which we are adopting the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we need to know how that money is spent. I expect that although this law will not be passed, although the vote on it followed the Budget Law, you have discussed this debate with these amendments and the vote on this law, for the next year we all sit down and agree that those 7% that belong to the province of Vojvodina will be defined and that it will be spent in the interests of all the people of Vojvodina. This is what should be our goal, and one balance of income and expenditure, and that, as MPs, we have, if nothing else, at least information on how these funds are distributed and how they are spent, because they are funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We answer to that budget as MPs. Therefore, I am pleased that the adoption of this amendment shows the willingness to change something in the Vojvodina Assembly, to adopt a plan of revenue and expenditure that would allow us, as MPs, to have insight into it. We will not vote in the DSS for this law, but we expect from the ruling coalition, and from the Vojvodina Assembly, and from all political actors in Serbia and Vojvodina to discuss the Vojvodina, because negotiations on Vojvodina will not allow, but we will certainly be the ones who will ask for the Vojvodina in every conversation and to find a solution that is in line with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6768	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6769	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you for the opportunity for having them back here today as part of the debate on this law in particular. And I also want to say, before I look back at the amendment, it's not a good way to create a witch-wrestling atmosphere. The fact that the AP Vojvodina appears in front of this respected home is the best proof that we want to solve open issues and open problems within the framework of the elements of the system. What you have referred to, Mr. Mihajlov, is part of the political cacaphony today in Serbia, but I don't think it can be used to create an apriori negative picture of anyone who asks this question, even if it did so within the framework of the elements of the system, like the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I have to say that with this question, we couldn't have appeared before, because the law whose change is now being initiated in September of this year. That you refer to the previous period, related to the budget size, is the second question we discussed when the 2013 budget was adopted. This is a principled question, this is a matter of constitutionality, this is a matter of respect for the Constitution, this is a legal question, this is a principle question, and it is not a question of the amount of money. Unlike those who have spoken of how humiliating it is that this question has been found today on the agenda, I can say that I am pleased by this circumstance. I look forward to the circumstance not only because of what happened today, because we've been trying to realize it for nine years, so we haven't succeeded, but also because we can actually see the pudding rehearsal at the same time. What's this about? This is about, ladies and gentlemen, that this law, whose change we are now initiating, is a book of recipes, which prescribes how and what pudding is made of. The law was changed in September and on the basis of this changed recipe we now have a 2013 pudding in the form of a 2013 budget and we can see what that means now. Before you look back on that, I'd like to say a few sentences against the amendments. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that you have tabled that amendment. We accepted this amendment as authorized promoters, because we are convinced that this amendment means creating a chance for all of us together to pour clean water into a clean glass and simply know what is what, to get close to ambition that we can say – clean bill, long love, that we simply know what is how much. The fact that the Government did not support this amendment, that the committee responsible did not support this amendment, is not a surprise, but is therefore a disappointment. I don't think that's a technical question, but it's primarily a political and principled question. For this reason, we regret that such an attitude is created. I must also say that we have very easily accepted this amendment of yours, because in the previous years, since 2005, we have been here for these seven years a total of twelve times as the provincial government initiated the addition of the elements of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in this very sense, to simply so-called. The rules on the conditions and method of keeping accounts for the payment of public revenue and the expenditure of the funds of these accounts shall be complemented by this obligation, that they are simply systematically and elaborated on this size. From that point of view, this ambition of yours in the amendment is just a confirmation of our ambition that we've expressed twelve times so far. We are convinced that accepting this amendment means strengthening transparency and transparency, that it means resolving a dilemma about how much is paid and how much is obtained. We think that, not only in relation to the AP Vojvodina, but also in relation to all other units, at which levels these measurements can be carried out, it was necessary to do so and for this reason we accept this amendment. On our part, we think that it contributes to clearing up the overall situation. When I just said, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to end with this, that this law is a book of recipes for making pudding, then I was thinking about practically seeing how the constitutional guarantee is being split through this law. What does this mean specifically compared to the 2013 budget? We see what an arbitrary interpretation of Article 184 paragraph 4 means. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is, above all, a matter of principle and constitutional law, a question of respect for the rule of law and a question of seriousness of intent behind a sentence relating to decentralisation, regionalisation and the question of respect for the principle of subsidiarity. Why am I saying this is a pudding rehearsal? I'm saying because it's practically in the works that it's been seen that sentences can be spoken about how the budget is as large as it's never been in previous years. A sentence has been spoken from this place that it's a level of 70 billion, even more. We're experiencing it, I apologize if I'm going to be a little too sharp in the definition, that it's practically the first step towards some realization of the ambition of introducing a protectorate over Vojvodina. The facts speak of the budget's size relative to the level it would have been, that in September the law has not been amended, by nine billion dinars, and that in the structure of Vojvodina next year it gets 3.8 billion dinars less for the Capital Investment Fund than it would have been if it had remained unchanged before September of this year. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am not experiencing, regardless of the assumed outcome of the vote, that this time spent in this assembly was in vain, but I am seeing as a chance to repeat what we see as repeating or appearing in the last months, that in the previous period some have been silent, which are today practically on the line that we represent today. I am personally convinced that in this sense the general public opinion in this congregation will change and that in this sense this issue will be settled. Why do I think that's important? This is important because I personally experience this issue in the constitutional and legal sense as a question of Rubicon. As in Roman times there was a rule that legions cannot cross the Rubicon River, so I think in this sense this issue, the question of respect for the Constitution, the question of respect for the rule of law, must surely be one question of Rubicon, and I think that this question will eventually have to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6770	I must admit that the comparison with Rubicon and the Roman legions may not be the most adequate in this case. On this point, you and I don't have a dispute. So, we advocate that according to the Constitution of Serbia, the status of Vojvodina is settled and that is what is totally acceptable to us. That's what you and I have been doing for the last few years during our government. As a party, you voted against a budget that did not go 7% for Vojvodina, all these years earlier, unlike your coalition partners who then participated in the republican government. That's what's acceptable to us, and that's the place that we and you agree on, respect for the Constitution. That Rubicon you crossed when you passed the Law on Jurisdictions and the Statute of Vojvodina which is not in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia. We warned you then. We took the Constitutional Court of our appeal and the Constitutional Court confirmed it. So you're the first to cross Rubicon, not you personally, but I mean the ruling coalition at that point. We have now returned a little to that coast of Rubicon the Statute of Vojvodina and the Law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, the Constitutional Court has returned. I think that in all other situations, we must all stand on one shore and that the situation and the relationship between Vojvodina and Serbia should not be watched over the target and that you impose, not you, but one part of the parties in Vojvodina, imposes that relations between the authorities in Serbia and the authorities in Vojvodina are such that we are now looking over the target and who has crossed Rubicon and who is doing what? I think it's a completely inadequate comparison and we're not talking about Rubicon here, or anything else, but we need to sit down and talk about how this thing can be solved. We have proposed, we have a Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Serbian Assembly before which a question can be raised about what the interpretation of the Constitution is, that is, how those 7% are defined. That's what we need to start doing now to prepare it for next year's budget or some rebalancing that might come next. This should be a topic and you will always have our support to talk about it, not negotiate, not cross Rubicon, and not look over the gun because it's not going to do any good. That's what we, as DSS, are going to insist on avoiding that division, to avoid these divided Rubicons, rivers, because don't make a Rubicon out of the Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6771	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Your time for replica is up. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6772	I wouldn't want my comparison or the rhetorical image I applied to be misread. When I was talking about Rubicon, I didn't mean the Danube, I didn't mean Vojvodina and Serbia. I spoke in a portable sense, and you can check it in the stenographic notes, I was saying it from the aspect of constitutionality, the rule of law, etc. So in that sense, I don't think it would be convenient for this to stay in the air. On the other hand, it doesn't exist on our side at all, on my part, any sighting over the gun, so that's why we're here. We want to solve all the issues in this home. That's why I think it's a very valuable time we've spent here talking about these issues. When you say - in relation to the Statute and the Law of Jurisdiction and say – you. Then I must say that the Law on Jurisdictions was passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the Statute was adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, but consent was given to that Statute by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, but you can't now black – white show the thing and make a move to satanize the whole story again. There is no dispute between us about principled things, but I think all of this should be derived from the daily political conflict and sit down and negotiate within the frameworks of the system, as we are now trying to do, regardless of what the outcome of the vote will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6773	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pastor, this story of Rubicon is really interesting that you have set up, and my esteemed colleague, Michael, explained to you how we must all be on the same side of the river. It is important how this law ends. It will not be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is already seen. This parliamentary group that I belong to will not vote for it, and then it remains our duty to repeat once again and again why we have submitted the amendment that you of the AP Vojvodina have accepted. It's simply why we want to remain principled, consistent with the respect of the Constitution of this country. Let's point to the hypocrisy of various parties when it comes to this issue. So, what belongs to the AP Vojvodina is that it is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, something that the state of Serbia and all its citizens must respect, and this home must respect, not only in this place, for this amendment, which allows for the beautiful and whole constitutionally foreseen 7% of the income of the AP Vojvodina, but in that this home must always take care of the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the position of the AP Vojvodina. That's exactly what my predecessor from the DSS pointed at, and I think it's very successful, that this home, Mr. Pastor, has broken the Constitution. When we were saying that this house violated the Constitution by its majority decision by having passed the Law on the powers of the Vojvodina and given consent to the Statute of the Vojvodina, we were then accused of prejudged by our position to the Constitutional Court and that we had no right to do so. Although, as MPs, we have the right to have an opinion on every bill. Then the finale came to the Serbian Constitutional Court and now I can say that this home here in the last term has passed an unconstitutional law and has in an unconstitutional way given its consent to the Statute of Vojvodina. What you all participated in, so don't be surprised at someone who is principled and who says, that until the last one, we will argue that the AP Vojvodina has those rights provided for by the Constitution and we consider it a top hypocrite when the AP Vojvodina does not allow those rights, and even more hypocritical when someone from the AP Vojvodina, who is among the citizens of the AP Vojvodina chosen for the highest home in the AP Vojvodina, is complicit of the surrounding in such an extremity. So we think it's very important for this issue to be brought to a clean end. Therefore, it was logical for you to accept this amendment, as it would be logical for us not to pass the whole law. As it did not make sense that this topic and this place, when it comes to the Serbian budget, had not previously taken into account the ruling majority and removed this practically, only painful place we see. The only way out of this is for this regulation to be properly amended and that for the next year, without any dilemmas, we will enter the normal track when it comes to the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Indeed, the only way out of this galimat is for the Republic of Serbia to be in this assembly, and for you to bring regulations to the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia when it comes to displaying the autonomy of Vojvodina, and in this way we will solve the whole problem. So there's no outwitting, no need for it. So, all we need to do is respect the rules to keep everyone satisfied, because these regulations are not only designed to please citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but they are designed to be interpreted as such, to please all citizens of Serbia who need to care about living in a unique and normal state in which rights should be equal for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6775	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6776	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. This amendment and this whole debate is another proof that everything that is not done in time later creates serious problems. Today we're discussing, you said, I loved the comparison, that the Bill on the Budgetary System is the Book of Recipes, and that this is just one of the recipes in that book, it could be understood that way. But what wasn't said much, even when they were amendments proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly to the Budget Law, which was not even spoken in the principle debate, is that it is the basis of Article 184. The constitution of the RS, and you have called, seems to me to be in attitude 4, which says the budget of the autonomous province is 7%. The same Article 184. The constitution also has attitude 2, which says that the height and type of original income of autonomous provinces determines the law. As there is a Constitutional Law, which was brought together with the Constitution under the procedure voted at the Serbian Parliament, whose article 15 says that by 31 December 2008, all acts should be brought and brought in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that one of the proposed officials is proof that the AP Vojvodina Assembly can also propose, the law is exactly this debate. I do not understand why the parliamentary majority, which was practically the same in both the Vojvodina Assembly and the Serbian Parliament, did not find it appropriate to first respect the constitutional deadline of 31 December 2008, and then, in this four years, it was not appropriate to pass a law that would remove any doubt about the type and amount of income needed to finance the autonomous provinces. If it is "the book of recipes" and if it is "the making of pudding", then, Mr. Pastor, the pudding is not made by the Law on the Budgetary System, but by the law on the type and the amount of income financed by the powers of the AP Vojvodina. It then removes all the dilemmas about the application of the law. There's a lot of dilemmas, and I'll talk about them later. We have brought this amendment because, we have proposed this amendment, you have adopted it and thus changed the essence of this law, and as you yourself said, it was just our intensity when we wrote that amendment. The budget of the Republic must be fair. It must be clear in the distribution of funds and must not damage anyone in the Republic of Serbia. It's perfectly clear that we've been thinking the same way. Our job in the Serbian Parliament, the DSS above all, is not to deceive anyone, nor to deceive the people of Vojvodina, nor to play the constitutional norm, but not to damage any part of Serbia, when it comes to the distribution of budget funds. That's exactly what we wanted with this amendment. What's the point? The first and most important thing of the Budgetary System Act does not give a definition of the budget. There is no uniform definition of budget. If anyone asks -- how much is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, if we want to be fair, there is no answer to that question. There's no answer to what the budget is. The budget is a basic instrument for economic policy, as defined by the Budgetary System Act, but it represents a plan for income and income and expenditure and expenditure. When we talk about the budget, we can talk about income and income, expenditure and expenditure. Revenues can be tax and not tax. Taxes are divided into different, but there is no unambiguous answer to that question. The other thing is, you reacted to the amendment of the Budgetary System Act that was adopted in September of this year. The law abolished its own revenues and included its own revenues in the budget. The answer is the Ministry of Finance's reaction, which said that 7% only counts on tax revenues. It is quite humiliating if the Vojvodina Assembly is forced to give an amendment, which requires that those 7% be accounted for and incomes from the sale of non-financial assets, and then the budget coverage is increased, at this point, by another eight billion dinars, by a percentage compared to those eight billion dinars. This is neither fair nor long-term sustainable nor predictable financing. There were a lot of words when the Vojvodina budget was being discussed and when you look at the structure of that budget, we're just talking about it. There were stories, the budget is made in two ways – one is tax revenues, income from profit tax and income from profit tax and the other is transfer funds for education units of local self-government, capital investment, and everything else. There were stories of the AP's budget being a "pronged water heater". Now the question is, if we want to talk about the essence, I say, the right moment is to propose a law on the type and amount of income for the financing of autonomous provinces, and then we're going to talk about and what kind of income is that, and what is that amount of food income, and what are the revenues that can be sustainable in the long term? The point is that the Republic of Serbia's budget for the past few years has also become a "inverse water heater". The bottom line is that more than 80% of the Republic of Serbia's budgets are pre-defined flow funds, which do not depend on who makes up the government. The structure of the Republic of Serbia's budget is that 260, 270 billion are employee expenditure, of which thousands of billion are employed in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and then there are interest payments, there are loans taken to finance projects throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and transfers at other levels of government, where again the autonomous province and the units of local self-government, transfers to social security organisations, social protection. These are the funds that go for all the employees. Of course there were ideas, when we discussed those amendments to the RS budget, I didn't say then, but the question was – should education transfers be covered by the AP Vojvodina budget and should they enter the 7%? They are already entering the RS budget. The question is about transfers to local self-government units, it's very interesting when we talk about funding local self-government, we notice the following thing – the last four years are being violated by the Local Self-Government Funding Act, there is no provision that 1.7% of GDP should be transfer funds. Only the DSS responded to such a violation of the Law on the financing of local self-government. If it was a topic to protect legality, and if it was a topic to protect a fair debate, then we expected that the Vojvodina Assembly would also stand by our side and protect all local self-government from the RS government. We should have stopped together then to protect some other rights that exist in our laws and in our Constitution. Unfortunately, we were alone here. We were the only ones protecting the right of local self-government to have safe funding. I agree there's no money, but if there's no money, the most painful thing is when it's being distributed unfairly. With our amendment, we are trying to achieve justice in recording all revenue and all expenditures. Only then will it serve as a basis for further fair adoption of the law, which will then carry out a fair distribution. If you look closely at how they are spent and how constitutional norms and these "books of prescriptions" you were talking about are destroyed. They're often spent on government decisions. So the government distributes budget reserves or pre-distribution of those funds that it has referred to certain funds to local self-government, according to its intent and thus directly violates all these standards that we are talking about. It is corrected by our amendment. It would not be possible for Belgrade in 2009, 2010 and the coming years, with the reason that there is a reduced inflow of income from taxes, which local self-government and which budget did not have a reduced tax inflow? Then Belgrade receives 200m dinars from the budget reserve due to reduced revenues. We don't know until we see how the funds were spent, two years we find out what that government decision looked like. It's all being removed by our amendment. We agreed that our amendment was good. We agreed that by accepting our amendment, you gave up your initial proposal. We must agree that together we are working on a matter of urgent adoption of a law on height and types of income, a law on the financing of autonomous provinces which will then allow the budget, that the debate on the budget should not be discussed primarily on 7%, and then the debate on what the 7% counts. It is also too humiliating for this congregation, rather humiliating for autonomous provinces and rather humiliating for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not the right time to debate, even if the law is passed, the government has rejected the law in principle, even if our law is passed, even if it is adopted in any text, it will not solve the problem because it remains a discretionary law and we have fought against it even three years ago a request before the Constitutional Court to prevent the Government from suspending any other law by the Budget Act. You know very well that, no matter what we put into the Budgetary System Act, in the book of recipes you spoke of, the Government can always change any law in the Republic of Serbia and extend the rights to someone and reduce their rights. The budget law is a specific law, which should have a legal basis in every income and in every expenditure. He can't create new incomes and new expenditures. That's the point. We urge you to start an initiative, then start an initiative with the government. When you haven't already launched an initiative with the Government that you supported, run an initiative with this one, which you don't support, to pass a fair and fair law, which will then apply to funding and that will allow us to have no such debates on this one or on similar issues. As for the protection of the Constitution, the law and the legal order, you will always have some conversators in us, who may disagree with you on all matters, but we will agree that this can only be solved in such a way and that this is the only fair and fair way to solve any problem in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6777	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6778	Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased to welcome the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly on his own behalf, and certainly on behalf of all the members of the URS, at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is an honor for us to be able to welcome with a person with full political capacity to represent the citizens of Vojvodina, to explain the position of the URS on this important issue of the upcoming fiscal consolidation problem in the Republic of Serbia. I am sorry that the truth is contained in the issue that our debate on this amendment is too late and perhaps already relevant. It is correct to note that after the adoption of the Budget Law, it has become a little bit relevant and a debate on the proposed law, but without the ambition to be whose wooden lawyer, I am sure there is no cynicism or madness in the decision that this law is on the agenda. Although it was known that the assembly majority had a set draft budget law, which would not be compatible with the ideas of this law, it was put on the agenda precisely because of the persistent and lengthy effort of the AP Vojvodina to open this topic, to show respect, regardless of which we know that the majority of the proposed solutions will not be adopted, but this does not mean that the topic does not deserve a serious search and a twisting of an important dialogue in society, not in order to move passion, but to learn one thing that we are going to tear apart or tear apart the hair so as not to reach for the hair, according to one of the thinkers in European literature. What exactly is this about? There are no lies in the claim that the fiscal consolidation programme and the adopted text of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 gave the AP Vojvodina 15 billion dinars more than before. Seven percent of tax revenues can be charged, as we hear, that it is an illusory category, because the constitution defines 7% of the budget, but as some MPs have already said very precisely, unfortunately, the budget has become, thanks to the overall public debt and budget deficit, a somewhat significant illusory category, because, without misunderstanding, our budget plans expenditures in greater scale than it manages to frustrate and plan revenues. It is already a new fashion that concerns and that is why fiscal consolidation policy has been adopted. We have to get out of this problem, but if we already have one built-in illusion in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a figure of expenditure that we can't even deprive of income, then we can say that there might be a fairer 7% illusory to Vojvodina, so we share 7% with all unfavourable sources of income. It seems to us as the URS an act of responsibility to the AP Vojvodina and according to the constitutional right of citizens in Vojvodina that it is the only fiscal category without any illusions. Seven per cent of tax revenues are not included in the deficit and the uncertainty to which such a budget will actually be realised, as it is the most reliable revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for the fear that you might get the impression that someone wants to introduce a protectorate over Vojvodina, with the deepest condemnation of anyone's mind in that direction, on their behalf and on behalf of the URS, I confirm that this cannot be possible. This cannot be because, firstly, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to guarantee sovereignty in all its territory to all Serbian citizens, including the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, and also because I know that the Shumadija, represented by my party, is a Party Together for the Forest, which is an inspirational one of the founders of the RS, would never allow it to be seen on the side. The unhindered favors of Šumadija, which itself tends to regional identification, according to what the jobs, concerns and problems of the AP Vojvodina are, precisely because we cultivate awareness that modern Serbia together rules the revolutionary rebel Forest and the enlightened Vojvodina, but also because we know that today's Serbian subnaissance, which are made up of Shumadi and Vojvodina, is actually the strong orientation of modern Serbia towards its European face and identity. I think that we are invited and it may be the right measure of concern that it rightly has, that it is this axis of Shumadi and Vojvodina that disciplines an illegal culture of Belgrade and this Belgrade-based concept, in order to prove itself a bridge in modern Serbia, not a border between the left and the right of the Danube coast, if that border is already mentioned. The point is that this is a stubbornly factual, concrete subject of fiscal accounts and that it cannot be fundamentally disputed for the URS that this proposal for the AP Vojvodina budget gets more than it has previously received, that it cannot be disputed that the connection of the source of funding to the AP Vojvodina from the republican budget is related to the safest budgetary income and that it cannot be disputed that by putting this bill on the agenda, even if there was no congregational majority for its adoption, has shown respect for the importance of this topic and the needs of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6779	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6780	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the esteemed representatives of the AP Vojvodina, the MPs, I will address with one people's proverb, and that is, who about what, the grandmother of the stilts. No one asks Grandma if she has any flour to make you and share you equally according to the number of members of her family. So Vojvodina got some responsibilities that didn't belong to her and that's what the Constitution said. That's where we should put the dot. The question arises how did the AP Vojvodina have the funds it received from this Serbian budget? I'd say you didn't spend it well and rationally. You worked according to your will and you gave those municipalities where you were in power. I didn't get any of that. I'm not talking about me. I'm talking about strangers and people who are in my party. I would not agree that you represent the Vojvodina as a whole. Our SNS party has about 25%, at the time we went out, so you're not representing us. If you were to represent us, you'd probably ask us how these funds were spent, as much as it doesn't matter, from Serbia's budget. You've ruined the Development Bank, you've ruined the Capital Investment Fund. I don't know what to give you right now to ruin more and always be in some superior position from the rest of Serbia, which is in inferior condition, and you're also making some selections. Look at Banat. I went to Banat the other day. It's grief and misery to see. There's no living man on the street, the houses are empty, they're falling. Why are you all pointing so hard to find those 7%, and there's no budget? Give something from real sources to keep that budget on the side of the Vojvodina at some higher percentage, and you'll get back those funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6781	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6782	Please, just the time of the parliamentary group. In the budget debate, it's been repeated several times, and we heard that today, so I'd like to ask Mr. Pastor to remove that kind of doubt. We have the Republic of Serbia's budget and the 2012 AP Vojvodina budget. Last year, the total funds the AP Vojvodina had at its disposal amounted to 63 billion dinars. The Republic's budget for this year provides for a transfer amount of around 38 billion. The estimates are the Ministry of Finance, and that's what you wrote in your amendments, that you count on nine more plus six billion of the various taxes. If I count well, it's about 54-55 billion. Since we in the Serbian Parliament do not get decisions voted by the Vojvodina Assembly, would you be kind enough to tell us what the budget of Vojvodina for 2013, according to structure and income? It's just to remove that uncertainty of whether it's going to be bigger, 15 billion smaller, 20 billion, we're going to easily calculate a percentage of the incomes, expenditures, receipts and expenditures. Perhaps that act has already arrived in the Assembly procedure. Not yet? If you could say it's an estimate, that 64 or more or less? That would help in this debate, because if anything is accurate, then that's, and how much percent, we'll be able to figure it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6783	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6784	The President-in-Office, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid we've come a little out of the subject matter of this law submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. It concerned clear precision, i.e. the desire to comply with the constitutional provision under which the AP Vojvodina belongs to 7% of the republican budget. The provision is not disputed, the wish of MPs who have discussed this issue so far, in a very principled way and the wish of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is that it is in the part that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia respects it. We have found in the debate so far, when we talked about this law in principle, that it is a political, economic issue, but in a way this is primarily a constitutional issue. In a very constructive debate involving DSS representatives in the part where they said the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be respected in all parts of it and one that is slightly less attracted to one. In the part of the discussion, it may be extended to a part that is not the subject of this law, but it is also possible. I believe that by adopting this law, which is, in any case, delayed in terms of its adoption, because it was to be voted before the 2013 Budget Law, and then it would make sense. I agree with speakers who said that if this law was now passed and with this amendment submitted by the DSS, it would in some way be inapplicable, i.e. it would have to change the 2013 budget. However, I believe that all those who until the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia is preserved should, in the day to vote, consider whether they will vote in favour of this law, because it supports the respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia until we amend the constitution. I agree that this is a matter of respect for the Constitution so far, that we can talk about it. However, there has never been any dispute in one law, that is, the provisions of the Constitution are interpreted differently. He may not have been respected to the end through the implementation of the budget, but it did not happen that the law itself limits the constitutional law of the AP Vojvodina. That is what it is, it is the subject of this law, respecting everything the honourable MPs have said so far, each from their point of view on certain issues of budget control, republican and regional and dedicated spending. This is all very important and therefore it was welcome to this amendment, but the law submitted by the AP Vojvodina is very clear and it returns the budget of the Republic of Serbia to constitutional frameworks and that was its main objective. That is why the DS was, and in the day the vote will support the law, as well as the amendment submitted by the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6785	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Vojvodina theme has been far more present these days than it has been in previous years. I agree that Vojvodina is not given, that nothing is given to it, that Vojvodina earns and accordingly needs to be distributed from the budget as much as possible and as many rules as possible. The basic problem is double standards, which are blamed by us from Vojvodina, or those who represented us as the organs of the AP Vojvodina. The first year when there was a surplus in the budget, the duke's leadership was defined to be 7% of the income. To make it the AP Duke's budget. Now that expenditure is far greater than income, therefore, when there is a deficit, Vojvodina is looking for a different kind of redistribution. There are fellow MPs here who have it written and signed on two sides, when the distribution was agreed upon when the Constitution was adopted. Then they asked for 7% of the income, and now they're asking for 7% of the expenditure. What concerns me is the following fact, given that I live in Vojvodina, and that the amendments to the AP Vojvodina, or the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, were rejected to the budget and not only by the votes of MPs who do not live in Vojvodina, but when you count the votes of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who voted on these amendments in this House, you will see that most MPs living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina have rejected the amendments proposed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I'm afraid, I'm sharing that impression, and I'm breaking myself, that we didn't just do it because one or another budget is less like it, or that Vojvodina thinks it has less rights because there's another government out there, but for the simple reason that I think in the past 12 years, the leadership of the AP Vojvodina has in some way compromised the idea of the AP Vojvodina. So, since the adoption of the 2006 Constitution, a lot of money has been going towards Vojvodina, I'm not saying enough, so I'm still saying it's been abolished, but for that money, what the Dukes expected was not done. The headship of the AP Vojvodina and officials often acted partyically. So, instead of Belgrade, we who live in Vojvodina got a new sedation, and then we regionally suffered in the way that Vojvodina suffered from the transfer of jurisdiction, what she suffered from downtown in Belgrade, that's what we started in Vojvodina to suffer from Novi Sad. I'll set an example of how some things are neglected in Vojvodina. These days have been 94 years since the date of the Grand Assembly of Vojvodina, i.e. the Grand Assembly of Baranja, Banat and Backa's decision to join Serbia. A day earlier in Srem should be marked the same anniversary, because Srem made such a decision earlier, to join Serbia before the Grand Assembly of Baranja, Banat and Backa did. However, that day has not been marked, which shows in a certain way the attitude of the province's authorities towards its regions and municipalities where the government in Novi Sad, which the government in the AP Vojvodina does not hold power in certain local communities or municipalities. Then their way of handling and their way of investing in those environments is far worse than it was during Slobodan Milosevic's attitude towards Belgrade towards Vojvodina, as he acted, that is, how he shared the money, that is, how he carried out projects on the territory. I want to say that the 7% of the expenditure, which means 7% of the deficit, is in a certain way the guilty executives in Vojvodina, who have irritated us MPs who live in Vojvodina, and here we vote on these amendments, that in most of us we do not talk about you as a representative of the MEPs, and I am afraid that in the same way we will reject this law that they have proposed, given that the model of their rule and the way in which they make the party, I am afraid that this law will be rejected, not because we do not love the Vojvodina as you do, but because there is a far greater party, therefore, since there is this way of treating those parts of the Vojvodina, I am afraid that this law will also be rejected, not because we love the Vojvodina as well as you do, but because this idea of the devastification that this year has been important in terms of divorce, which has led to this year. However, it was so in the possession of this money that it irritated certain MPs that because of the way the money was held and the money was shared, we from Vojvodina cannot understand what our leadership in the AP Vojvodina wants and wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6787	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6788	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President of the APi Assembly of Vojvodina, I'll agree with you that we haven't wasted our time here and I'll agree with you that it's very good when we speak within the institutions. What concerns me is the fact that you have been trying to implement a dialogue like this for nine years, that since 2005, you have 12 initiatives to complement the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Then it is certainly commendable that we have been able to open this topic today in this high home. What concerns me on the other hand is the real intention of the promoter, and I've already said that this is one marketing move, and where does this consistency come from? On the other hand, I also think we need to talk, no matter who the founder is, in what part. We are here, as some colleagues have already mentioned, responsible for budget spending. I think here is a place to talk about how money is spent, because you'll agree, we're all fighting for citizens' interests and we'll agree, which I mentioned last time, and that's what worries me as a duchess, when we have a smaller average than the republican GDP. I would point out once again that I really believe that the solution is the adoption of the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which should serve as a model for other regions as well. I also think we should work together on this proposal. I think we could also talk about the public property of the AP Vojvodina and what it is now that is registered as the public property of the Vojvodina, and we know it's not much. Also, as a duchess, I want to send a message that I don't want to get the new sedation we're getting, that the URS has shown one consistency when it comes to funding local self-government, because I remind you, one of the IMF's main concerns was just financing local self-government, and that, by adopting the law in 2011, for which we received citizens' support, it was given much more money to local self-governments and thus created the possibility of local self-government in accordance with their needs and in accordance with their problems solving and implementing programmes in the territory of their municipality. What I'm also worried about these days is the current situation on the regional roads of Vojvodina. I think this is where we need to talk about this and whether the maintenance of Vojvodina's Emergency Staff is another marketing trick. In any case, I welcome the initiative to discuss this within the framework of the institutions. I repeat once again that I think that the solution is to just pass a law on funding, and I stress that for every money that is obtained there should be a responsibility in spending that money and submitting certain reports, not to do so for three years in electronic form and on over 1,000 pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6789	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6790	The President-in-Office, Mr Pastor, the SPS will not support the draft law, that is, this amendment on the agenda. We will support the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision not to support this law. First of all, we want to support the government's intention, clearly expressed and spoken and addressed by the prime minister during the inauguration, or exposé, to respect the level of autonomy of the AP Vojvodina so far. I really want to say that the citizens of Vojvodina can be sure that in that sense there will be no constraint of rights or any protectorate over the AP Vojvodina. The evidence is certainly also evidenced by the talks that followed in the institutions, but also by the prime minister himself, Mr Ivica Dacic, but also by the president of the state, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who spent the past month or two days in Novi Sad, the AP Vojvodina, and indeed in this way showed the intention and desire of the institutions that represent, to discuss all the problems that affect the functioning of the AP Vojvodina, namely, the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, this debate has really shown its justification, and that, for at least two reasons. First of all, it is evidence that both the authorities of the AP Vojvodina and the Government and the Assembly, in this way, want the problems they are facing and brought to us, and in the principle debate today in particular, to try to solve where they belong, in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and here, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the intention of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which came from the president, but I would like to say that this amendment and addition of the Law on the Budgetary System, which took place from the AP Vojvodina, came on the agenda because most of the MPs here wanted it and confirmed it with their vote. It is another proof that most political parties, MPs, want the problems facing the AP Vojvodina to be resolved in the institutions of the system. On the other hand, what is another gain of this debate, first of all, in principle, and in particular, which I was talking about, Mr. Pastor, is that we were able to hear firsthand a number of specific problems faced by the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, which, at the end of my brief address, I will say more. We in the SPS really feel that certain political tensions that are being created need to be brought down. And in the principle debate, we said we were against internationalisation of the problem, but also that we are against those movements and intentions that go and so far to completely disabling the autonomy of the Vojvodina and think it should be abolished. So somewhere between those two sexes, I think the biggest responsibility is that of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, so if you want to, and to our MPs, that we really do all these initiatives and all these aspirations, we stop. We believe that the abolition of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the movements that occur in all these situations, when in the best possible way they do not understand and do not want to solve problems through the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, appear in the AP Vojvodina, have no place and that would not be a civilizational step, and would not reflect the needs of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina that are unquestionably doubtful when you look at the historical, cultural, social, national composition, and any other opportunities of the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, an attempt to get out of Vojvodina's autonomy and simply show some possible attributes of the statehood of Vojvodina, for the SPS are really unacceptable. We want the autonomy of Vojvodina to be seen essentially, as an optimal arrangement for, above all, improving life, economic, economic and other, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. That's why I think it's a big responsibility for us to just keep these extreme demands on the margins, where I think they belong. On the other hand, when I said that this debate had brought about one fact, that we learned firsthand a number of data and major problems faced by the AP Vojvodina, I would like to say that even as a citizen of the AP Vojvodina, from the middle Banatian district, whose centre is in Zrenjanin, I am aware of certain problems when it comes to water supply and sewerage, schools, kindergartens, and business. These are topics that really need to be discussed, which need to be sought out solutions in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. You're going to allow me to ask a certain question and topics that I think we're having in the middle of the Banatian district, which are already known problems when it comes to agriculture, which has suffered enormous losses, and even 50% less yields when it comes to corn and individual varieties, a significant constant fall in the throat in livestock. Simply, these are the topics in agriculture that we are very interested in. I think it's justified to ask a question. What are the moves? On the other hand, we in the middle Banatian district also have a drop in employment, especially with entrepreneurs. We have a large number of unemployed with high professional equipment. In August, it was 1047, and we had 4658 unemployed citizens over 50 years of age, with a small prospect of employment. Those with high expertise clearly show the technical and technological unwillingness of the economy in our district to accept high education personnel. The average salary paid in August was slightly lower than 11% of the average of the Republic, but it was lower by about 8% of the AP Vojvodina average. For example, one of our municipalities in Novi Becej had as much as 26% lower earnings than the average of the Republic of Serbia. I would also add that a large number of blocked companies, which were increased by about 17% compared to the previous year, and the amount of the blockade, which is about two and a half billion dinars, increased by as much as 45% compared to Augustes the month of the previous year. That's why I want to say this time that the SPS as an opposition party in the AP Vojvodina parliament, this time really expects it to be maximumly involved in the work and solving of these problems. We are prepared to contribute, by our own knowledge, to these problems, first of all, to the problems of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6791	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6792	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the honourable fellow MPs, as if we were not discussing a single law, and in particular, as if we were not discussing the law in particular. I didn't want to use the Rules of Procedure to draw attention to the fact that the debate was gone, because this is a broader debate than it should be in principle. It is no longer known what everything is being discussed, and in fact we have a very short proposal before us, a proposal to supplement the law, which is clear, just read it, that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina in this supplement asked, in fact, that the basis for determining the budget of the AP Vojvodina should be income and income. No one asked for expenses and no one asked for the basis to be a deficit, since this is where the talks went that way. On the other hand, in front of us is what we should talk about today, which is one amendment to this law. The amendment is very practical and logical and adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina as a proposing. It means that public income and income, public expenditure and expenditure on the territory of the AP Vojvodina are recorded in particular. This would be of great importance, if the law were to be adopted together with the amendment, for a simple reason, because in today's discussion, it is clear to us that, after adopting the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we do not understand how much money is allocated for the next year for the AP Vojvodina budget, for the simple reason that the budget adopted is not clear to anyone, in terms of its transparency? You have the funds that are transferable, you have the funds that are in percentages, and in the end, there are funds that, if the Republic invests something in the territory ofAP Vojvodina, it will later show it as if it were the funds for the AP Vojvodina budget. So we started a year with very vague and inaccurate data. In order to make it clear to the end that a constitutional provision has been respected in the work on the budget of the AP Vojvodina, a draft bill on the budgetary system proposed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly should be adopted at the same time and the amendment submitted by the DSS parliamentary group should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6793	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6794	I absolutely support Mrs. Theodore Vlahovic's discussion, since I believe she gave a part of the argument why it should be accepted, both the bill and the amendment. I believe that the proposed law, and including the proposed amendment, is more clearly regulated by this matter which was subject to the law on the budgetary system and corrects something which was in a certain way not sufficiently regulated in September when the National Assembly discussed the proposed law on the budgetary system at the time. (President: I ask the People's MPs to allow the MP to speak. ) I think the amendment to this bill will contribute to clarity on all of this, so the movement of money, where the money is collected, and on the other hand, it is very important where the money is spent. The fact is that if we are reading the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 71, where basic and secondary education is defined as free of charge and thus the obligations of the central authorities, I am not sure that these obligations can be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget, since neither the AP law has such authority, but it is the obligation of the central authorities, and therefore those transfer funds should not enter those 7%. The second thing, there were speeches here about the funds of local self-government, and Article 188(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear that the operations of local self-government units are financed from the original incomes of local self-government units and the budget of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law. Watch out, from the AP Vojvodina budget, when the AP entrusted units to local self-government businesses under its jurisdiction. Those transfer funds couldn't go from Republic to AP, so from AP, my God, that's in those 7%, going further towards local self-government. It is obvious that if the Constitution is strictly read as it is written, the question is whether that is all we have voted for, and we have voted yes, we have voted most of it here in the National Assembly, until someone raises the issue of assessing the constitutionality of such provisions before the Constitutional Court will also apply the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's correct that such a bill on the budget system came here before the National Assembly. I think it is useful to adopt the amendment, and I think it would be useful that every time a bill comes to us to get into the regular procedure, to arrive at the National Assembly in that form that will not be followed by the Government's subsequent amendments for a day or two, not to mention after the deadline for the amendment, to come. We have a good thing that the budget law came into assembly procedure in October, but it's not a good thing that the part that changes the revenue and the expenditure side arrived on November 20th, and on November 29th we discussed the amendments. If we had more time, there would be a better chance that every illogicality would be indicated, it would be possible to avoid making mistakes that would later be difficult to correct. I am going back to the topic of today's agenda, which is that I find it useful to adopt a bill amending the Law on the Budgetary System, as proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, including to submit an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6795	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Vojvodina must have everything that belongs to it by the Constitution and by law and it must not be abolished in any way. I agree with you, Mr. Pastor, that this topic should be discussed in the institutions and I support every dialogue. I'm only sorry we didn't talk about this sooner. I would disagree with this comparison with pudding. It's much easier to make pudding. It can be done by any layman, but by making a republican budget after the Ministry of Finance, which has left huge debts, huge unpaid bills and an unprecedented deficit. It's easy to make pudding and cake on three floors. Every housekeeper knows that, if you have enough material and ingredients. Unfortunately, this government came across an empty fridge and a pantry. For the first time in six years, the budget was made in time and Vojvodina has clear parameters on how to bring its budget. Unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet, and it seems to me that politics has drawn into the story of the province's budget. Such a decision not to make the province's budget, I would understand that it was done in the past few years while the debt of the Republic to the province was accumulated. At the time, they did not hear a requirement to respect the law, to respect the constitution, they were all condescendingly silent and receiving and taking as much money as Belgrade had given them. I said that while I was a Member of the previous four years in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, we never addressed any initiative other than the statutes to the Serbian Parliament. Or the problem is that it is now clear how much the Vojvodina will receive and what the province government will have to make accounts, namely to clearly and transparently state what the money is spent on, and it seems to me that this was not the case in the previous period. Have the funds been spent rationally? I'm not sure. Just look at the Capital Investment Fund. What the conversators said – yes, we got "newsadisation", in the previous period I talked about how the greaves of money went to Novi Sad, and the small municipalities remained short-sleeved. What else happened? The municipalities had to pay the debts of the Capital Investment Fund. They were forced to do it out of their own budget, because, my God, we gave you so much, it's your turn to help us now that we're in debt. Do you know what that looks like to me? Now you go to someone's wedding, buy an expensive and valuable gift, go to a wedding, take pictures there, all smiling, and then after a year go to the wedding and tell them – you know, now give me money for that gift that I brought you. In such a situation, municipalities were brought all over Vojvodina. My municipality of Kovin gave 40 million dinars, the Panchevo municipality returned over 300 million dinars. I think, at the very least, it's unfair and unfair. You know, with rights, there's always obligations. For over 20 years, I worked in school, and since first grade, we've taught kids to have their rights, but also to have their own obligations. We taught them to have the right to their opinions, but also to respect others. They have to go along with the rights and obligations. I barely came to work today on one regional road, which is not clean, not dry, it's covered in snow. Where's the responsibility? In the discussion of a set of health laws, we heard that the provinces lack many doctors in hospitals and homes of health. It would be my responsibility for the circuit assembly to bring budgets in time and to plan in that budget salaries for missing doctors throughout the province. I think that would be very useful for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6797	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6798	Thank you. To begin with, I will repeat a brief comment on the situation of putting the bill on the agenda, which we all know does not have a majority in the name of democracy. This already happened in 2001 with the decision of then-President Dragan Marsicanin. We discussed, for days, the different Rules of Procedure, the law on the declaration of a natural disaster because of the wild cheese in the municipality of Zrenjanin, which was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski, and the law on youth, which was submitted by MP Branislav Ivković. If that is evidence, then it is also evident that we have not gone far from the 2001 situation, when we discussed these two laws knowing that they will not be adopted. The good news, however, is that it is very obvious for all parliamentary groups, representatives of all parliamentary groups and parties in the Serbian Parliament there is a very obvious, convincing and proof of the will for dialogue and the subject involved in the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, despite the fact that there is not a majority that would bring such a change, and even if there were, the adoption of this law would not result in an impact on the 2013 budget, except in the case of adoption and budget rebalancing. What remains as a problem, while respecting the obvious will for dialogue, is that the Vojvodina Assembly, for legal reasons, not for financial reasons, is hardly able to bring the 2013 budget within the prescribed deadlines. It's not about financing, it's about the fact that most of this assembly's amendments to the Budgetary System Act and the adoption of the Budget Law have created a legal, not political or financial problem in Vojvodina. Except for these good sides, obvious, that there is a will for dialogue, there is something to stand up to and to show resistance, which is a habit, which is obvious through language, that the Vojvodina is given something, that Vojvodina is getting something. It would be good, as we have slowly, but yet we have reached the will for dialogue, to get to the point that Vojvodina is not given anything and that Vojvodina does not get anything, as it does not get and as it is not given to the City of Belgrade, or to any local self-government. Therefore, it is the legal basis for the return of part of the funds collected under various tax laws, in this case from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and in other cases from the territories of individual local self-government or the City of Belgrade. Why is it steaming our ears when we say that we're giving something and that Vojvodina's getting something? Because that's not true and because it's offensive. It would be good if faster than we spent time reaching consensus on the need for dialogue we gave up that anyone here thinks that they give anything to anyone and that anyone gets decisions in the National Assembly or decisions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is another detail that could be heard here is that through discussions it was clear that someone who is the opposition in Vojvodina thinks he is not represented by the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. It is a little creative interpretation of the Constitution that we stand for, and it would be quite understandable to say that I do, because I represent the opposition in the Serbian Parliament, that it does not represent me as president of the Serbian Parliament, which I do not think, since the constitutional position is such that the president of the Assembly and the chairman of whom he appoints really represents all of us. I think it would be good, believing in institutions, believing in the rule of law, which we are building together, we also accept that, as Vojvodina is not given anything, but is returning, as Vojvodina does not gain anything, but under the law has the financial means, that so all together we are represented by the president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, in this case Mr. Istvan Pastor, and in any future case anyone who wills the assembly majority will be the chairman of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I regret to say that by rejecting a really timely review of the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, one opportunity has been missed, which will reach us in the first half of 2013, because it is the issue of the rule of law, because it is the issue of institutions, which in this case are the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. There is no demagogy, there is no awakening of low passions, there is no ignorance of which can be proud, which in 2012 can hide the level of construction of the rule of law and the rule of law and rights and obligations of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Minor hateful remarks, light inaccuracies and all that politicians normally use, because they think people believe them, are colorite and political folklore unmistakable, but it would be good, as we have come to the will of dialogue, that we are slowly giving up, as it would be good to quickly give up the language that anyone in the Serbian or Serbian Parliament gives anything and that anyone in this way gets any money. Budget money is common money. We can only talk about what is the best way for him to deploy, and neither to whom we share him, nor to whom we give him, especially to the Duke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6799	Thank you. The word is Mr. Toskovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6800	If I were to be represented by the President of the Vojvodina Assembly the way I thought, I would accept him as my representative and president of the AP Vojvodina. Since he's the President of Vojvodina without knowing what's going on with the Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund, it's not without being seen. So the president had to know that, and he was supposed to react on time, not only him, but also the Prime Minister and all the factors in Vojvodina. It was shared by hand and hat where it wasn't supposed to be, and where it wasn't given. I don't know why we're even discussing this, and we're not looking for a guilty man who's the one who ruined both banks. The public prosecutor gave orders to the National Bank of Serbia to examine the situation in the National Bank and the Capital Investment Fund, I don't know where these results are. Let's see these results. Something can't be destroyed without someone's fault. I can't accept people like that to represent me anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6801	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6802	The fact that the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly is not a matter of our choice and it is not a matter of deciding whether or not he can do it, it is a legal state. You may not like it, you may like it, you can play the president's recall procedure, but I mean it on purpose, because it's important that we understand, that the moment your political position, which we each have the right, opposes as equal for choice, whether the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly represents me, in his personal position, that he does not represent me because I don't like it, we are working against the rule of law. I can have a different view of the Prime Minister, of the Prime Minister of any government, of the President of the Assembly, I can present here a criticism that you will consider to be reasoned or not. But the president of the National Assembly represents me as well as the other 249, representing Serbia, as does the Prime Minister and every minister and anyone entrusted with public work. It is not just a detail in the language, although life is in detail, but it is our common will to separate what is a political struggle because we believe that the President of the AP Vojvodina Istvan Pastor is not doing his job well, and what is the obligation, which is part of the rule of law, that we understand that the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly represents the Assembly and represents Vojvodina as much as anyone has chosen in any public work. Until we are quite certain that we know the difference between political struggle and the abuse of institutions, we will do damage to the institutions and no benefit to political struggle.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6803	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6804	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the AP Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the JS parliamentary group will support the government's position when it comes to amending and supplementing the Budget System Act. Not because we are against the proposal of the AP Vojvodina, but because this government has entered the 2013 budget with certain criteria, criteria, rules and made the draft budget adopted by this assembly. Any new procedure, any new law that we would adopt regardless of some attitudes, would affect that we would have to come into a situation very quickly to change, to rebalance the 2013 budget. It is known that JS and its programme have been pursuing every kind of decentralisation, including financial decentralisation in the Republic of Serbia, and this means that much more funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are going towards those who are filling that budget, i.e. all local self-governments, as well as towards the AP Vojvodina. But this should be built on certain rules, certain principles during 2013, so when we adopt the 2014 budget, that the Government has all this in mind and that it proposes to this National Assembly such a budget that everyone will be pleased with. We are not making any criticism about the burden of the AP Vojvodina proposal that perhaps they are wrong by asking 7% or not to meet their demands. But please get acquainted with the views of the permanent conferences of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, and you will see that according to some of their research and knowledge, local self-government in the Republic of Serbia in 2012, 2011, 2010 was denied by several dozen billion dinars that were to be obtained from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the AP Vojvodina was not only denied for part of the funds it was supposed to receive, but many local self-governments were also denied. So let's not, now, if there's not enough money in the budget, we have to share what we have, to say, in an equal way, that the AP Vojvodina realizes that at this point there is no possibility of respecting what is written in the Constitution. Not entering into this, with regard to the assessment of the constitutionality of certain provisions of the laws that we have passed here in matters of jurisdiction, i.e. the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, the Constitutional Court has said what it has said, and the National Assembly is likely to have to act and make certain amendments and additions to those laws whose provisions have been challenged, but that we are not now opening up a discussion and a new topic. So, we from JS are for this and full of lungs, according to a colleague, we will be pushing for financial decentralisation in Serbia, that much more money from the Republic of Serbia's budget goes not only to autonomous provinces, local self-governments that make up the AP Vojvodina, but also to all other autonomous provinces, according to all other local self-governments. Please, do you know how funds are being raised and whether there are funds in certain undeveloped municipalities in southern Serbia, in eastern Serbia, in central Serbia, where I come from, who simply have no chance of paying the users of the budget, and who do not have the opportunity to get more funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget because they say the money has as much money as it does. We must all bear the burden of this financial crisis at this moment, to say the economic crisis that has hit Serbia next to other countries in the environment. Finally, I would also like to say that JS will always advocate that the funds go where they are most needed, to those citizens who need help by, or from, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. But at this point, you are opening the question of the financing of Vojvodina, I fear that someone abroad who does not have the most beautiful opinion on the Republic of Serbia, about everything that is happening in the Republic, not to say – here, central government is denying certain rights of the AP Vojvodina. You know what problems we have at this time and what battle we are fighting to draw maximum for our people living in the southern Serbian province. So let's put the ball down a little bit to the ground, let the people of the AP Vojvodina realize that all of this can be discussed, but during 2013 and when the 2014 budget is made, to build certain rules on which the budget is to be made. We at JS hope that then, not all, but most of us will be pleased. In the end, I cannot finish the discussion without saying the following, why did certain MPs sitting in this National Assembly for the past four years not put this issue on the agenda, and they were in power. Now they're putting it on the agenda and they're pushing for it when they're not in power. Come on, let's be principled one from the beginning to the end of our term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6805	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6806	Dear Vice President, Mr. Pastor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with what Mr. Petrovic was talking about. Regardless of whether anyone abroad with sympathy or antipathies looks at Serbia, I think it will be enough for anyone who appreciates the position of Vojvodina and respect for the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, this one of your sentences from the discussion, and you are the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Justice – there are no conditions at this time to respect the Constitution. Outside that sentence, no other comment is needed to assess to what extent and in what way the ruling majority, the Serbian government, as well as governments before it, are absolutely right, in violation of the constitution brought by citizens of this country. I understand your objection to the expense of some other parties to behave, and I'll quote you, I think you said - unprincipled. But then that goes for your political party, too, and you sat with those parties in the ruling majority of the last term. So, the argument that there's not enough money at this point, so we all have to stretch out as long as the leper is long or wide, I understand that. But it has nothing to do with percentages. The percentage, in this case this constitutional percentage of 7%, is exactly what ensures, that everyone is evenly, so to speak, to settle from that reduced, shortened, thrifty budget as you say. You've done something else with your budget. You've given some other levels of government, some other budget users more to get the Vojvodina on the other hand less than this 7%. It is precisely a negation of the principle that everyone must equally bear the burden of the crisis. I'm not sure that everyone has to bear the burden of the crisis equally. I think the burden of the crisis must most be borne by those who are most politically responsible for it. You have also been in power in this country since 2008, so from the moment the financial, economic crisis broke out. The other thing that was said here, I did not react according to the Rules of Procedure, although I think that there were elements for it, Mrs Kovac, Mrs Novkovic, at one point, seemed to have made a false and very dangerous claim, that in the previous assembly of parliament or in the period from 2008 to 2012, everyone was tacitly silent, while the government, or, as the government passed, the ruling coalition, violated in a very similar way the Constitution and denied the rights of Vojvodina. It's not true. If someone was condescendingly silent, she said, they kept silent about the condescending political parties that made up the then ruling coalition, which proposed and adopted such a budget. Members of the opposition parties, including the LDP, not only did they not remain silent, but every budget proposed in this assembly since 2008-2012 had its amendments, very openly speaking about them, and sharply criticised the ruling coalition. I ask you to ensure that at least in the Assembly, in such a debate, if anyone uses any harsher and harsher words, which, as you know, I do not mind that at least they are true and that they do not contain in themselves insults at the expense of some parliamentary groups, opposition, political parties. For the very end, not to take a lot of time, this is just one of the episodes, one of the stages in that sad "marriage" lawsuit of former, present, perhaps future coalition partners in different governments and at different levels of government. Every thing that has happened in Serbia in the past few days, the collapse that took place in Vojvodina, will be interpreted in its own way. I'm not sure that citizens will benefit much from this, or that next time we will be able to avoid the situation of public enterprises taking public road shares, this is one of the most inefficient public enterprises in Serbia, Serbia Roads, or regional, local roads, to function better than this would now be the case. If we don't cure the underlying cause of this, if we don't fix the system, if we don't change the constitution that was last time written and adopted as adopted, so today someone's asking for the whole of 2013, to talk, to consider one of the most banal technical questions whether something is 7% or not 7% of the budget. In 2006, you wrote to the cabinets, outside the public's eyes, and adopted it for two days, "the goat kept the cabbage" between Friday and Saturday, while the referendum lasted. The referendum did not receive the required number of votes, even with incredible thefts in the territory of Vojvodina, and it did not bother you. For six years, Serbia has lived with such a constitution and every year has a problem on every issue, including the most banal issue – what is 7% of the budget, as determined by your Constitution? No one forced you to create the only constitution in the world, in which there are numbers in the normative part of the Constitution, or members. Usually the stop only has the number of members, they're the only numbers in the Constitution. Our constitution also has numbers and percentages in members who regulate, in this case, the rights of the AP Vojvodina. Whether it's easy or difficult to come to work, whether it's passing paths, whether everyone's doing what needs to be done, whether there's clear responsibilities and division of responsibilities between local, urban, regional, republican authorities. Some parties in this House could think, say, in 2011, when they decided to impose on the ruling coalition, the adoption of an amazing law, so-called "pre-election campaign". The law to fiscal decentralisation, to shift 400m euros annually from Serbia's budget, while failing to do what is the key thing, that at the same time, precisely and ultimately regulate some transfer of jurisdiction, some transfer of obligations and to clarify where the obligation of the republican authorities, where the obligation of local authorities begins, or vice versa, I think the assumption should be reversed, from a lower level of authority than the local one, and then only one part of the minimum, one that needs to be financed from the republican budget, is the issue of central government, or central laws of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, do not transfer to other parties responsibility for this. I don't think it's just the URS' fault for this law, I think they're equally guilty of this unfinished law, and I think that all your coalition partners who voted for it despite the LDP's objections, as perhaps even more guilty are those who are today criticising the province's administration, the province's power, even though at different levels and in various coalition arrangements they've exercised power for years and acted in a very similar way, as the current government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6807	Thank you. Mr. Petrovic, I'm going to give you the right to a replica, just one thing to finish. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the assignment of seats to Members of Parliament to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Aleksandar Senic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, elected from the election list "Selectment for a Better Life" – Boris Tadic. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the text of the oath. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and of the mandate-immunity issues, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Aleksandar Senic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. The word is Petar Petrovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. Mr. Đuric, I see he's out, and he's fine, he's just here to tell you that I was not giving the position of the Justice Committee, the state administration and the local self-government whose president I am, but rather, of the Parliament Group of Unity Serbia, which I suppose I am entitled to. As to whether the constitution has been violated in certain provisions, certain members of this or any other law, for your information, let me tell you Mr. Djuric that this is not decided by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government. There is another institution in the Republic of Serbia, which is competent and only under the Constitution, to determine whether a member of the law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the institution is called the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, when he decides that something is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, this National Assembly and the Committee, whose leadership I am, will have to respect it. Therefore, in order to avoid confusion, I repeat, I was merely expressing the view of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, and when it is and if it comes to the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government, it will take its stand and inform this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6809	Thank you. Mr. Djuric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6810	I did not dispute that you had the right and that you expressed the position of the JS parliamentary group. It was only shocking to me that someone who is the chairman of the Justice Committee considered it normal to say that at this point there are no conditions to respect what is written in the Serbian Constitution. We can consult a stenogram. I think he's done right now, he'll be done soon. You just said that. I almost fully quoted you. Now, five minutes later, you checked in and talked about that we Constitutional Court could decide on that. It was strange to me that you were the first to assess the constitutionality, not the constitutionality of the Budgetary System Act, or the 2013 Budget Law, and that you found that these laws were not in line with the budget. If we are to be precise, this institution is called the Constitutional Court of Serbia, it is not called the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, but now let us not enter those details. Of course I didn't say you were on the stand of the Justice Committee. You have not done so, and you do so very rarely, as I remember at the beginning of those sessions when you have the right to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that is, when the chairman asks you to present on behalf of the Committee what the conclusions of the Committee were, that is, the results of an examination of a law in principle before the Committee you are leading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6811	Thank you. National MP Ana Novkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6812	I was talking here about the condition of the roads in Vojvodina. I've set a really personal example that I'm having a hard time getting to work, but I don't think that's the most important thing, I just wanted to back it up. However, I think it is much more important, because of those who should also arrive at work, because of those who are sick and who are very difficult in these conditions to reach the doctor, in this context, and I think it is very important that if someone gets and takes the right to something, he must have responsibility and be responsible for all the citizens of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6813	Thank you. National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6814	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, as a member of the URS, like all of us, I am proud of the adoption of a law relating to funds allocated to local self-government. I can understand the fact that someone in Belgrade is not aware and cannot see what the problems of those small, undeveloped municipalities are. When we talk about decentralisation, I think it's very good that municipalities have guaranteed some funding, regardless of Belgrade or Novi Sad. I don't think we're giving these assets, those funds are being made in the territory of that local self-government. On the other hand, it is one of the legal proposals that is supported by over half a million citizens' signatures. I think it's one of the first examples where the citizens' voice has just found its way in this House, so I'm proud of the adoption of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6815	Thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just one more time to explain. I speak Serbian and I hope you understand me. I was taking out the position of the JS parliamentary group. When the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government makes a decision, I will be obliged, whether or not I agree with that decision, to represent that decision if I am empowered by the Committee to be a representative. Therefore, when I spoke of the position, I guess it is clear that I was talking about the views of the JS parliamentary group. My friend Guric, thank you for informing me. I really don't know after 30 years of legal training that the Constitutional Court is called what you said. It's really news, and I thank you for that notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6817	Thank you. MP Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6818	I do not really have a replica of what Mr Petrovic was talking about, but I will answer in one reply to the remarks of colleagues Novkovic and Miljevic. I absolutely agree that it's important how people get to work or how they get to the doctor. That's exactly what I was talking about. I think that for your political reasons, which are legitimate, you single out a level of government that has certain resources at its disposal, and in your opinion does not use them in an efficient manner and speaks of administration, about the administration of the AP Vojvodina, where you are not in power, while avoiding you from talking about the responsibilities of some local communities for the reason that your political party is there in power and for these reasons I have mentioned the Law on fiscal decentralisation. You yourself said at first that these funds were allocated, and later that they were not given, that they were earned there. I spoke very precisely, and those funds must also go to obligations, competencies, not to spend 400m euros and be thrown into an election campaign. That's what this is about. This money has been used in a large number of municipalities in an election campaign in an indirect or direct way and therefore no other things have been done. You know it well. That's what the president of your party, the finance minister and the economy in the government talked about when we talked about the Budget Law here and these accompanying laws. Please don't let anyone else speak in the Assembly that the first law when the citizens' will and voice got some result in the Assembly, this law for which 500 thousand signatures were collected. What does that mean? All the laws adopted in this House are on behalf of the citizens. These are political parties that won some votes in the election. Every law is on behalf of citizens and expresses the majority will of citizens until the law changes or the electoral will of citizens changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6819	Thank you. Ana Novković and Jelena Travar-Miljević and Slavica Saveljic also reported the replica. I can't let everyone talk. Let one of you report for replication. The word is from the People's Messenger Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6820	Thank you. First of all, I would say that there should be a sure control of the consumption of funds. That's what this government and the URS are all about. I would also say that the Law on So-called Fiscal Decentralisation was adopted with the mass support of citizens through the signing. That's what needs to be especially appreciated and welcomed. In addition, when we talk about jurisdiction, how much memory I serve, the pathways of the second order are the competencies of the AP Vojvodina, local roads are within the jurisdiction of local self-government. We know that another section of the road has been transferred to local self-government, and this has provided funding in the 2013 budget. In the community where I come from, one of the biggest problems is the path that connects two municipalities and is not a local character, so I wouldn't argue about it any further. I'm going to point out once again, when we talk about a law that leaves double the money to local self-government, I'm going to say that I'm proud of it because I come from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities of this country and I think it's a good opportunity for people to get to know and solve their problems at the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6821	Thank you. MP Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6822	We agree that people have the right to work and that the best thing to do at the bar is to achieve the interests of the citizens. I'm talking about a situation where political parties think they should do it instead of citizens, and then they throw money into bad political projects, welcome new years and things like that, and they don't deal with life issues, as they usually say, of small man issues, as is popular lately, that they come from the demagogue position. As far as I know, the biggest problems have arisen on a republican road, or on a highway passing through Vojvodina. When you go to the doctor, when you go to Belgrade to the Assembly, not all of them, but many go that way. There was a problem Saturday night. I just said that we should all try to do what is politically in our power, that we no longer question confusion, that we are not coming into a situation that the Chief of Emergency Administration says that no one is doing anything or that many are doing their job at different levels, and that then the account of this country's political, human, physical, on that ground is being exposed to him, that the problem is a fire, in the spring of the flood, and in the winter of the snow, and that this is the consequence of this state's disorganization at all levels of government. That's what I'm talking about. It's not all a fight between the two parties or between several parties. Try to understand once that someone may also have an ambition to point to a problem that is not just a question of party rating. You know what, when 400m euros go to some local self-government, it means that on another side there are 400m euros less, and that the competencies remain the same or almost the same and that they will not be able to be financed during one financial year. It is not true that you are in favour of controlling the spending of funds, as you have been sitting in governments for nine years that have not passed in this House the Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia's Budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6823	We're moving on. Predrag Markovic was in the system a while ago. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6824	Mr. President, welcome back. It's a pleasure. I fear that when we talk about this amendment that you have accepted, as well as about the way the law came before the Assembly, a large number of MPs, and this has been seen and when we have talked in principle today, this is exactly how it supports it. Because it supports the fact that we respect that the legal system in Serbia is unique and that territory is unique. In this context, everyone must respect their part of jurisdiction. You are talking about the principle and the amendment that you have accepted, which the opposition parliamentary group has given you to your political option, the opposition, says there is a great willingness to respect the principles. For this reason, I ask once again to respect the facts and to try to do so in the next period, and there is Miss Jerkov right, because it is obviously too late to see the results right now, but the fact that the really competent people representing the citizens of Vojvodina or the Assembly of Vojvodina are sitting here, that a few days ago the really competent regional secretary is sitting here explaining the views that represent in the previous government of Vojvodina, in this Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, is a way that we can come up with real solutions, so that there are no hypocrisy in the situation, any false data, we have even heard the incorrect data today about the number of people of Vojvodina. I'm going to remind you of that because I see that this has caused doubt, your metaphors are as convincing as your consistency. You showed two glasses in the principle debate and you said whether this glass is full of water or this one has only half the water, the Constitution says that one seventh of it, if that water is budget, goes to Vojvodina. What is also important is that you and the MPs have shown that it is not a matter of water, but of the amount of thirst. In previous years, not only did it not arrive a week ago, as you claimed in parliament, and you are not alone, but what was determined and declared 7% did not arrive at that age. The thirst is enormous. This is where you caused the confusion, and I think you intervened in the meantime, giving comparison to Rubicon. Many have misunderstood you. No, I hope not, because I know history. The ban on the crossing of Rubicon was not about those from Rome, but about those who attack Rome. There was this law that could be discussed in principle in a Senate without an army, without hungry mercenaries. Basically, you did cross the Rubicon, in an allowed, legal way to be adequately discussed here in this high house. Please do not allow the next period of time to form legions of hunger based on political hypocrisy, which would like to cross Rubicon against the law and declare something to the Rubicon. Because in every part of Serbia, and you have heard the MPs of various political options here, we all advocate that the mistakes made either in application, or in the inconsistencies of legislative acts and the statutes of Vojvodina, are corrected by a joint effort. In that, you will certainly have in the next period, my personal one, but if I understand the help and co-operation of all the serious people in the parliamentary groups. If the law can't be applied, let's change it. If the Constitution can't be applied, let's make it better. If the statute doesn't take care of all parts of the Vojvodina, let's help the people of Vojvodina change that. Once again, I say, not from Rakovica, but from people living in Vojvodina, thank you for being consistent in this and independent of voting on this amendment and under this bill of yours, once again, you enjoy the support that we all change together for the better on the basis of facts, what is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6825	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6826	The President-in-Office, Mr Pastor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to remind the MPs that we are discussing an amendment that has been tabled by the DSS and that for the past hour, colleagues who have been discussing it have rarely touched that amendment. I must say, today we haven't heard any serious objections to our amendment. We heard the support and we heard the only attitude that the amendment would not support it because it was the government's position. No one really looked at our amendment and analyzed it and saw why it was good. Mr. Pastor, you know that you have no problem with our party when it comes to respecting the Constitution and the fact that Vojvodina has to get 7%. You said a clean bill of long love. I'll tell you a clean bill of respect for the Constitution. It's very important to us that this thing is done very precisely and to the end. In that sense, there was also our amendment. Finally, resolving this issue in the constitution will make it impossible for political debates and the opening of political crises. The only defence for political crises in the country is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, I have the impression that today, in this debate, whoever appeared gave himself the freedom to throw a stone at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The debate has opened, can the Constitution be applied at all? Is the Constitution supposed to apply, are we able to apply it? A constitution which, while being challenged here by many here, has been unanimously and confirmed by the National Assembly in a referendum with a very sharp constitution of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in force in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The question for all of us here is why we, for weeks in the Serbian Parliament, are discussing the respect of the Constitution with the highest legislative body. I am not sure that at this point you can find an example in any European country, to discuss whether the Constitution will be respected. You've had an example of awe or expectation of a decision by the Constitutional Court of Germany about this one crisis situation she's been in in the past months. Today we have the atmosphere that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not responding to the constitutional court's memos, that MPs say the Constitution is no good, that they say we cannot apply, we have no money. This is one question that really says what a deep crisis we are in. We have to essentially change our relationship to the state. We must respect the Constitution as a whole, whatever fellow Members have. When the question arises whether international institutions should interfere with our constitutional and legal order, I want to say nothing to our political system. I want to believe that Serbia is a serious and mature society. I give you this, Mr. Pastor, the great controversy has caused your departure to Brussels and a meeting with Mr. Stefan File and Jelko Kacin and the conclusions that have been made there, that the European Commission will on one hand follow the Constitutional Court's decision to defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If we read this correctly, it means that they are not satisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision. On the other hand, it will be very precise to monitor whether Serbia will respect these 7% that Vojvodina should receive. Your answer had to be – The Constitution must be respected until the last letter and decisions of the Constitutional Court and all the consequences it carries, including the abolition of an illegal institution so-called. The Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art, and the transfer of competences of the National Park "Fruška Gora" to the Republic of Serbia, but also 7% under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has the AP Vojvodina. If we all agree that, on the outside, according to all international institutions, we will speak in one voice together, believe that they will take us seriously and we will not be asking questions here if we can respect the Constitution. Here, a political question is now opening – can we, since the previous government has signed some agreements, according to us, deeply anti-constitutional about Kosovo and Metohija and establishing a border on Jarinj, can we now respect this Constitution, because my God, will create political problems? It is very important that, through the respect of the Constitution, we build relations at all levels of government, from local self-government, from autonomous provinces to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will enable us all to work responsibly in the responsibilities we have received from citizens and through the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and not to assess for political reasons when it is appropriate for us to respect certain norms. That's why we're gonna have these discussions all the time, all the time. You will say from the AP Vojvodina – we are denied 7%, the other will say that the Constitution is not respected in a different way and a political crisis is created. We can't be a key crisis generator here in the National Assembly. If we're all throwing rocks at the Constitution, we're the generators of that crisis. Therefore, I ask my colleagues, whatever position we have on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that it is at this moment the largest and strongest factor in the stability of the Republic of Serbia and the greatest guarantee that it will preserve the peaceful and normal development of the Republic of Serbia, avoiding earthquakes and political crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6827	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that there are students present at the gallery of the University of Pristina Faculty of Law, based in Kosovo, Mitrovica. Please welcome them with applause. People's MP Predrag Mijatovic came to the floor. He's giving up. The next is Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6828	Of course, you got my name wrong, so I kept my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6829	I'm really sorry, Mr. Mijatovic. You weren't signed up for a word. Predrag Mijatovic has indeed been reported. It's written to me like that, so I can't give you my word right now. Sign up a little later, just so we can take the order. Next up is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6830	Dearly respected presidency, colleagues and colleagues, respected students, I'll be brief. Just before I heard from the President of the Duke's Assembly of Mr. Pastor, a sentence he wonders about – whether this is the introduction of a protectorate to a small door for the AP Vojvodina. I simply want to know how you, sir, are experiencing the autonomy of Vojvodina within the sovereign state of Serbia? Is it even feasible to be a protectorate within a sovereign state? That's one thing. Secondly, I have heard a novelty, which read – small-time haters' attitudes, so I wonder who represents those petty haters' attitudes, do those people who deal with autonomy for petty possessions, so every chance they use to attack the state of Serbia and the constitutional order in which they live or refer to people who represent attitudes contrary to the fact that the AP Vojvodina enjoys all the rights of the AP Vojvodina within the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6831	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6832	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, feel comfortable in this home. I appreciate and respect the function you perform in Vojvodina, and personally, I also appreciate your work in Vojvodina. I also welcome fellow students, with the desire to make them a better congregation and a better state than we do. I hope that the future is always in young people and that this will not only be a steam, but that they will, with their work, make one European Serbia, a good Serbia in which they will enjoy living. I can agree with what MP Markovic said, which is that Rubicon has been moved. I'm glad Rubicon was passed over and Mr. Pastor mentioned that metaphor, because we're talking about Vojvodina here, which is very good. We're not negotiating, we're talking. To help myself to another sensation, "the cube is cast." That means we're still going to break up here and find a solution that we need to no longer talk about that famous 7% of the Vojvodina budget. I always asked myself a question – what does 7% mean? Why isn't it 14%, why isn't it 4%? Who set the 7%? I never understood that. I've been trying to explain for a long time, but I guess I won't be able to do that. Here we are talking about a very important topic that will surely come back here to the Assembly, and that is to see how the Vojvodina as the AP has the means to make it, to belong to it, to make it a better place for everyone to live in. I came where the first part of the highway was pretty frozen and with a lot of snow, and the second part of Belgrade didn't have it. I'm not accusing Belgrade, I'm not accusing Novi Sad either, but the situation is what it is, all of us who came down the highway. We're talking about one very serious law here, and we all know it won't go away. I said that in my first presentation, in principle, it won't work because at this point there is no political will to find a solution to the problem. Also, unlike some who are very hard to defend the 2006 Constitution, I cannot agree that the 2006 Constitution is such that it cannot be subject to change, or some fundamental reconstruction. He certainly did not endure the test of time, which is very quickly seen and he is constantly generating new crises, so if we want to find a solution, then it is indeed an opportunity to look for this solution and not stand firm behind a constitution that, to be very clear and open, in 2006 in Vojvodina did not get full support, so there were no more than 50% of the votes of the people living in Vojvodina. That's the truth we can't escape from. I must also say that we are constantly asking the question of the rights that are being realized and what is the Duke's demand? Vojvodina is one Serbian space and I want it to be an orderly space for Serbia. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina is like a legal assembly, which must indeed correspond to the citizens of Vojvodina, but also to the Serbian Parliament, for everything it brings. I think we have room to look for a solution to this problem. I insist and demand that in 2013 it be the year when we will address the issue of the Vojvodina budget, not to wait for the 2014 budget, where we will renegotiate what is 7% and what is 7% of it. To make a joke, I support what my colleague from Shumadia used to say. I knew that we from Vojvodina and Shumadia always have a lot of common views and interests and that we should also agree that Serbia really should have one decentralisation. What Vojvodina has, I want them to have other parts, not to degrade Serbia, but to decentralised Serbia, make it better and more comfortable for the lives of all of us. In that sense, I will say this – the SDPS will not support this amendment until we move and talk openly about all the problems, along with the Vojvodina Assembly. I stress, I have spoken with a number of Vojvodina MPs, MEPs, in the Serbian Parliament, are ready to make their contribution. Please invite us to speak very openly, as we do in this home, to speak in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina. We'll come and I think we'll find the right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6833	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is John Palalic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6834	In my previous discussion, I firmly and firmly defended the 2006 Constitution. In that sense, a colleague mentioned it. I want to say something that's mentioned in that discussion. It is said that the Constitution is increasingly and every day generates new crises, new problems. What's that? We're listening. What are these crises and problems that need to change the Constitution? Preambula. We've been listening for days that preamble isn't right. What are the other problems that the Constitution generates, other than the one heard about the preamble every day, where KIM is mentioned, and now around Vojvodina? In addition, one thesis that has been mentioned since 2006, when the Constitution was brought up, which has always given the right to open a political crisis in Vojvodina to those who wanted to, is that the Constitution did not pass in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Gentlemen, the referendum on the Constitution was not only called for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but was held on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask these gentlemen - are the Sremite municipalities and the whole of Sremm part of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, where did the Constitution go? He passed through Sremska Mitrovica, passed through Shid, passed through Pancheva, Žitište and in many municipalities. Are these municipalities part of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, part of the AP Vojvodina? It is absolutely true that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is supported by citizens. Over 50% came out and more voted and is supported throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. But those who want to cause such problems, the political nature, now respect that the thesis and impose that the thesis on the territory of the Vojvodina Constitution has not passed. He's passed in a large number of duchy municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6835	The word has a National MP Milorad Mijatovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6836	I would pray, since I was born in Srem, my ancestors are from Srem and I live in Srem, I'm very glad I'm a Sremac, but I wouldn't point out as a special municipality or one municipality, I was just talking about the general attitude. Also, as a legalist, I believe that the Constitution as it is must be respected. I'm just stressing that he didn't endure a test of time and that we need to open that question, and nothing less than that. But the way he is, I think he should be respected. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6837	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6838	I'll use the MP's time. I just want a few things. First of all, I think that this amendment and any amendment that introduces order into the system gives an opportunity for one serious transparency of all that is done, that, in any case, we need it. In that sense, no matter what we will not adopt this bill, but purely as a commitment and as a position of the Roma Party and me as a People's MP. I, a member of the SNS parliamentary group, am one political position, which is that we need to clearly introduce certain systems in Serbia, through which we will be able to follow all the ways of doing business, all the ways of realising, and filling budgets, and spending budgets, and in general, how we spend resources to realise certain policies. On the other hand, I expect the President of the Assembly, after this meeting, to reach one agreement and reasonable steps in the Vojvodina Assembly to resolve certain issues and also to ask him certain questions related to the budget of the AP Vojvodina Assembly for the coming year – are these budgets defined to finance the news publishing institution "Them"? Will this budget define funding for the Roma Development Institute, from a very simple point of view? Today we are here in favour of respecting the Constitution and respecting the legal system and respect for all documents, all the legal acts that we have brought to a different level. If the Vojvodina Assembly, the Executive Greater Vojvodina, wants the Constitution to be implemented, and I claim that it must be implemented, if it wants to implement certain decisions, and I say that it must be implemented, then it cannot be an individual, who is a member of the coalition and is not a member of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, set up an ultimatum to one parliamentary group and the entire political elite of Vojvodina, who no doubt has a majority in the AP Vojvodina today, and to say, if you continue to finance the news and publishing institution "Theme", because it does not support its policy, and this person is also the President of the Council, and the Executive Council, and the President of an NGO, and editor of the programme in the Roma language, then I ask what are we talking here today? Let's do every thing in our house, do every thing in our backyard, start respecting all the Constitution, all the legal regulations. When we do that, let's do it on a republican level. I have to add this. I can agree with you that if the news and publishing facility "Them", which was formed in Vojvodina, as well as all news and publishing institutions, there was, possibly, crime. Two years ago, I filed a criminal report to see if anyone stole the file or someone, just to finish this on this particular issue, please, but then the court has to determine. This cannot be a political pamphlet, because it is contrary to the Constitution, because it is contrary to the respect of the legal system, to be the basis for someone who uses it for political purposes and to say they can no longer have the Roma list in their own language in Vojvodina, and members of other national communities to have. My question to you – if this were to happen if it were to get the Vojvodina 7%, as you suggest, and if it didn't get as much as percent and get 5% less, would you be willing to, that the news and publishing institution "Them" won't get or anything, or get a percentage less, as much money as it is in the Constitution? I understand that this may be funny to someone, but it would be the same, as if I were laughing here when your associate asked for 7% for Vojvodina. That's not what I'm laughing at, that's what I support. That's not what I'm saying about you. That's what I'm saying about your associate. I hope the associate will support what I've been saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6839	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Pastor, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6840	Thank you very much. I want to look back with a few sentences on everything that's been heard in this discussion, and in which I absolutely have no ambition to refer to all the questions that have been raised in a multi-hour debate. Before I go through with it, I'd like to give you an answer to these specific questions. I do not see any difference, as the President of the Assembly, between one list, another or third, which was established by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, neither, second or third institution established by the Assembly, or the provincial government. Each must have the same status and each must apply the same rules and I will surely stand for it. The details of this particular question of yours, unfortunately, I don't know. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't engage in further discussion. We can do it past this together. I want to thank you for your discussions with the MPs. I would like to say that I would like to remind you that today we have discussed several hours on the proposal to amend the Law on the Budgetary System, namely the amendment to this proposal submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, as a proposal. I want to say that our ambition to appear here is not a marketing and political trick, but is the result of an agreement I had with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is the result of a parliamentary majority agreement, or representatives of parliamentary groups who have agreed to put it on the agenda. From that point of view, if it's a marketing or political trick of the parliamentary majority or president, then it's possible, although I don't believe it. I believe that this is a significant step towards current parliamentary practice when 39 initiatives have not been put on the agenda in the past nine years. I want to see this as an ambition for this practice to change and to disperse media space and to bring issues into debate, into the system of institutions. That there is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone had a dilemma about it, I suppose today's debate has confirmed that the problem exists. We've heard more than ten debaters say different sentences on the same issue and very conflicting. If that's a fact, which it is, then it's a confirmation that the problem exists. The fact that someone attributes it as a sin to talk about the problem, I can't accept it. I am the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and from these positions I have the right and the obligation to talk about the problem that is holding us back, to talk about this problem here, to talk about this problem when I meet with the ambassadors, to talk about this problem when I meet, let's say, with the Commissioner for Enlargement. I think it's my job. That doesn't mean I'm against the state I live in. This is my country too, and that's why I care about her being arranged, that she respects what's written in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, today, I have to say again, we haven't heard a single reasoned thought about our claim that by amending the law in September is about divorcing the constitutional guarantee of facts. We haven't heard any such claims today. We've heard of this story, we've heard of this dilemma of sentences that try to push the problem into the financial sphere. I must say again that this is not a financial problem, this is a constitutional and legal, principled problem. This is not a matter of financial consolidation and it is not a matter of fiscal consolidation, it is a matter of respect for what is written in the Constitution. This is not a question that we can agree on whether it fits the government's 2013 programme or whether it doesn't fit the programme because it was adopted in the referendum. Whether or not someone likes the constitution now or not, he's in effect. When we point out that we have a problem conflicting with the constitutional solution, then I don't think you can give an answer – yes, but you have a question of the statutes, yes, but you have a question of the law of jurisdiction. It is the same situation when it is said that we have a problem in the sphere of the Constitution, so someone says now – yes, but you have big and clumsy ears. I don't think that can be a normal debate, and that's why I'm saying there's a problem. We have to solve this problem. It is clear to me, ladies and gentlemen, that with this initiative today we will not be successful or the day we vote, or when you vote, we will not be successful. I think we have made a significant step together, that these issues can be discussed and that these issues can be resolved within the framework of the system. I agree when it is said that there is a commitment by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the entire Government on these issues, but I must say that the step we saw in September, that the step we saw in the adoption of the 2013 budget, we see as a step that is not in line with what I am saying to the President of the Republic, with what the Prime Minister is saying and with what is the official position of the Republic Government today. These September steps and these budget-related steps are seen as some sort of a step forward in relation to this policy, and that is why we are experiencing it with great concern. Let me say that it is true that we refer only to Article 174(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there is a position 2 that speaks in relation to the law that must be settled on the financing issue. According to that law, this congregation, all of us together, which confirms further that we have a problem, is in the late six years. I hope that, if nothing else, this debate today will contribute to the fact that this delay that we have in common, which this precious home has, is simply being analyzed. From that point of view, I see this day as a significant step. Again, I must say, to underline on behalf of the promoter, which is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, that we are convinced that the quoted law that we want to change violates the constitutional guarantee is segregating constitutional guarantee. With this proposal, we return, we are convinced, the whole story within the framework of the constitutional guarantee. We accept the amendment because we think it further strengthens that constitutional guarantee, makes things clear, and for these reasons, I ask you to reconsider these proposals and support them on the day of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6841	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraph 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, and in order to be effective in the work of the National Assembly, that is, because of the need for proposals from the agenda of this session to be carried out as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we'll be back at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the third item of the agenda, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, and then on the search in detail on the fourth item of the agenda, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises. In this regard, I remind you that these two points, together with the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, were the subject of a joint principled search. In accordance with Article 158(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular, shall be carried out on members to whom the amendments have been tabled and on amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, with the total time to search in particular for parliamentary groups being the same as the total time for the principled review of the draft law, i.e. for a joint review of a number of draft laws for parliamentary groups. Therefore, given this provision, for a search in detail on the 3rd and 4th agenda, the total time for the five-hour parliamentary groups is reduced by the time the parliamentary groups spent during the search in particular in the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013. Accordingly, I would like to inform you that the remaining time for the search in detail for the 3rd and 4th item of the agenda for the parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - 40 minutes; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - six minutes; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - six minutes; the United Regions of Serbia's parliamentary group - four minutes; the United Pensioners' Group of Serbia - six minutes; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - three minutes; the New Serbia parliamentary group - four minutes and the Serbian Parliamentary Movement of Reconstruction -- the Democratic Party of Serbia - two minutes. For the mandated representatives of the parliamentary groups, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group -- five minutes; the Socialist Party of Serbia -- two minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group -- five minutes; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group -- six minutes; the United Pensioners' Group of MPs -- six minutes and the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group – 15 minutes. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in detail of the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda, in addition to the proposing representatives, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business and Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Gavrović, I invited the sittings to attend: Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Irina Stevanović-Gavrović, Head of Finance and Business and Tanja Djelic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance and Economy. We move to the third item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Legal Persons. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Dr Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, Ružica Igić, Miljenko Dereta, Bojan Đurić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and the Government, as well as amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. In writing, the government withdrew the amendment on 28 November 2012, which proposed that Article 51 be amended and a new article 52 be added after Article 51. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljenko Dereta, Bojan Djuric and Judita Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6843	Dear Mr Minister, Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, member of the 41st current Company Tax Act, says – in order to achieve economic policy objectives, in terms of stimulating economic growth, development of small businesses, concession investments, taxpayers are provided with tax incentives. The new bill, which is before us, deletes Article 20: "small businesses and concession investments". The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that these words should remain: "small businesses and concession investments", as it has been in the bill so far, because whenever... (President: Mrs Gajic, have you submitted for the amendment to Article 20? ) Yes, to Article 20. (President: The DSS parliamentary group no longer has time, and you are not a proposing amendment. You have the right to follow the next amendment. All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6844	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 21st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6845	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 21 of this proposal deletes the current Article 45. The law that gives concession firms the opportunity to be exempt from paying tax on profits within five years of the date on which concession investment is concluded. The proposed member of the law provides that, in order to achieve the objectives of economic policy, tax incentives are no longer provided by concession investment. We find such a solution very harmful, which is why we suggest that there remain a solution that is foreseen by the law that has been in force so far. In fact, the Law on Public and Private Partnership, which was brought into our practice, but almost not yet used, to revive this public private partnership, we believe that we should leave this possibility, that we could possibly invest much more in capital projects of public enterprises, first of all because we have much less investment of the state, we have a risk reduction for both sides, we have technology transfer, we have a division of profits from the business of these investments. The implementation of this funding and investment model is possible and recommended in projects such as energy, capital infrastructure, construction of municipal infrastructure in local self-government and cities, such as public transport, dumps, plumbing, sewerage, networks, and how to contribute to the development of these local development projects. So far, this model of public private partnership has not come to life. Regardless of all this, we believe that we should continue to allow concession investors to be both tax incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6846	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6847	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 22 is proposed to delete tax incentives for free zone users dealing with productive activity. In 2011, the Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, which did not establish clear criteria to prevent possible abuses in the form of safeguard mechanisms. That is what it says in the explanation, and for this reason, and for the sake of increasing budget revenues, it is proposed to abolish such tax incentives. We do not think that people who operate in the free zone are responsible for the lack of protection mechanisms for whether they will break the law or not, but we find it extremely harmful to remove such tax incentives now, for the reason that some investors have already built new factories there, as in Pirot. We find it inconclusive and that the state of Serbia in 2011 gives tax incentives, and in 2012, such tax incentives are lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6848	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6849	The President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, me and DS are absolutely in favour of the amendment submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, primarily for the sake of legal certainty. As the colleague said, we adopted a legal provision less than a year ago, a norm by which manufacturing companies that work in free zones will be exempt from profit taxes, and today, less than a year, we end it. I would remind you that the Free Zones Act was adopted in 2005; that in 2008, the Free Zones Administration was established; that in 2010 it was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia a Free Zone Development Strategy which included among other things tax incentives that should bring new foreign investors into the future. It was an attempt to sort out Serbia's biggest problem in some way, which is unemployment. So, with tax incentives, we bring in new investors who would work in free zones, who would hire new labour, and in this way, if we could solve the problem, they would have new tax revenues, like this, if we were to end it, there would be nothing. I'll tell you that today we have 10 free zones in Serbia; that the largest Serbian exporters today work in free zones; the minister was the promoter of opening a free zone in Kragujevac where Fiyat is now the largest Serbian exporter, but next to him in the free zone of Subotica is a Simens, in Piroth for Michelin, i.e. Tiger-Tayers, in Svilajnc, works Panasonic. So, the serious companies that had this provision in mind when opening their factories, and now it would be really bad if it were abolished after 10 months. What kind of message do we send to the world, that every 10 months we change the legal regulations that directly affect the profits of these companies? So my opinion, and the opinion of the DS parliamentary group, is that this LDP amendment should be adopted. I'll also remind you, I think it's very important that you know that in the Pirot, in the free zone, it is predicted that in the next 2013 Michelin invests an additional 180m euros to build an additional tire factory that will employ around 700 workers. Also, maybe less than a month, I don't know if Minister Dinkic was, but he was Tomislav Nikolic at the opening of Drexter-Mier company in Zrenjanin, as I know, I participated in it, their condition to open a new factory and to employ about 700 workers was to work in a free zone. So free zones have perspective. It is a small period of 10 months to see what positive effects this law gives, and therefore it is necessary to give the previous law a chance to see what it will look like in the next period. Not to eliminate the tax exemption, because I say that if we abolish the question, and what kind of message we send to investors, and whether anyone will seriously want to invest in Serbia when such important laws change every 10 months. So, Minister, I urge you to have an understanding of the free zones. I say, in your time, there's been a Free Zone Act and let's give it a chance, I say once again, this law to see if there will be new investors, because I know that the Free Zone Administration has done a lot of work to promote this legal provision, that a lot of investors are familiar with that. Imagine, people, now familiar with one legal norm, coming to open a factory in Serbia, and we say – we are sorry, gentlemen, but the tax exemption is no longer valid, you have to pay taxes on profits like everyone else. So we have nothing to lose here. So, that future companies that are established in the free zone will be valid, and from zero profit tax is zero. So, if no one comes, they won't pay anything, and if they do, they'll be exempt from the sales tax, but that's why they'll benefit and local self-government, from the income tax, other tax revenues, and I say that this amendment absolutely needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6850	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6851	The government did not accept this amendment for the reason that the motive for investor arrival in the free zone is not to exempt from profit tax, but to exempt from VAT and to pay customs duties on imports of goods used for further export. This is the law that was passed in December, it was pre-election, it was never applied, so no one was damaged by erasing this article that ad hoc was brought in for election purposes, because it was essentially never even applied. So, the member we're now discussing in practice hasn't been alive, not for a year, should have been applied since next year. What's the point? All these companies you mentioned have the right to 10 years of income tax under this current Tax Act, as they are large investments that are over 10m euros, I apologize, over eightm euros and employ 200 new employees. I just made a lapus, under the current law there were eightm euros and 100 workers, and now it has increased to 10m euros and 200 workers. So, all these investors you've been talking about meet that under other members of this profit tax law, they get 10 years of release working in a zone or anywhere else. We think that the introduction of this additional element which is otherwise rare in other world free zones, because it is a rule that free zones give the privilege of freeing a VAT investor, importing and customs, sometimes a local part of the income tax, if it exists as a possibility, and the profit tax is generally regulated by large companies that invest 10m euros, employed 200 workers have the right to 10 years of tax exemption from profits, while small businesses can be freed up to 40% of the investment and not more than 70% of the tax charged in that year. Which means that this is a relatively significant release, while for other taxpayers belonging to the category of medium and large enterprises investing below 10m euros, the obligation can be reduced by 20% in one year, but no more than 33% of this obligation. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that this law normally gives other members the possibility of getting rid of profit taxes, working in a free zone of businesses or not working, depending on the size of investment and the size of enterprises, and on the other hand that we haven't damaged anyone, since effectively this law has not been applied. When I joined the office of finance minister, at the end of July of this year, I had no case that any company had entered the release regime, and all of them had entered, invested in free zones, primarily managed by the motive of release from VAT and customs. Therefore, VAT on imports of goods and customs. So we find this amendment unnecessary and that's why we turned him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6852	Thank you. The word has Miodrag Djidic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6853	However, what I'm saying is that this law, these 2011 changes, had nothing to do with the election, nor was it about the election. I said that the strategy was adopted in 2010 and that there was a forecast in the Strategy, among other things, for the development of free zones, various tax incentives and one of these tax incentives is this. So it really has nothing to do with the elections and it wasn't easy, believe me then either to convince Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Diana Dragutinovic, who was the finance minister, because we started talking to her about this, to introduce this tax exemption. So, it wasn't a simple task, we were trying to get those free zones, me who was in charge of those free zones, to convince the Minister of Finance at the time, and I can see that we're not gonna make it today. So, I'm just saying, it really has nothing to do with the election. What the minister was saying is all true about the release of VAT, of course it's the basic factor they're coming for, but it's big companies. Our idea was to try and attract smaller companies with exactly this tax exemption, and it seems to me, and I'm not 100% sure that Macedonia introduced it, so we have competition in the surrounding countries. Our idea was to be the best, because we know what our problem is. The problem is employment, and one way to attract foreign investors, even smaller ones, is to work in a free zone, is to free the profit tax, and on the other hand they would get a income tax and most importantly they would hire workers, but the minister would decide whether to accept the amendment or not. I'm just saying, knowing that the minister probably won't accept the amendment, I wasn't even an applicant for the amendment, that's what the LDP did, but I felt obliged to say what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6854	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Radmila Gerov, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6855	Minister, when you say it was pre-election law in 2011, then you will agree with me that your MPs from your political party voted for such pre-election law. I really think that we are sending a bad message to all current and future investors, that every year in this country the tax rate is changing, regardless of what the entities operating in the free zone are all about. You said that state nothing, i.e. These business entities won't lose, because so far we haven't had that tax exemption, so you'll have to agree that the state won't get anything, because if these people haven't been released, then what's the point of abolishing that tax. So they won't get a single dinar budget from the Republic of Serbia. It's just that we're really sending a bad message to the world. By increasing the capital gains tax, from 10% to 15%, we also send one negative message, because previously, in fact, you did it, not personally, but the current Government of the Republic of Serbia. The reference rate has increased, VAT has increased, and we are now raising capital profit tax. Then what kind of message do we send to all investors? That this is unstable countries to invest in all domestic and foreign investors. For this reason, I believe that you should accept our amendment and I call on the MPs to support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6856	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6857	All the countries in the world that are facing the financial crisis and growing public debt, rising interest costs, did what we did when they set the fiscal consolidation programme. You can't have a budget deficit that went beyond 7% of GDP in August of the month, that was a projection, you can't bring it down to 3.6, and to keep all tax rates equal, that's just impossible. If you do, you have to have measures, and we've done it on both the income and the distribution side. Our idea was how to go as little as possible with that revenue side and places that hurt the least, as you would say, which are the least suffocating economic activity, although we are aware that any tax hike can certainly not be stimulating to the economy. But this is about free zones, where there is already enough incentive for someone to work in a free zone. I'm just saying that no one has ever exercised the right to this incentive before, because that law was passed in, I think, December or November of last year, and it essentially didn't come to life, so no one lost anything to those businessmen, but the state would lose if this amendment were accepted, because then it would count next year and the state would have less income. We have decided to make a simple corporate tax law, with a number of exceptions that existed in the previous law, and where in a clear way we will give incentives for large businesses if they invest more than 10 million euros and if they employ more than 200 workers, ten years do not have to pay anything from profit tax, and for small ones, I have already said that if they have the right to release 40% of the investment, even if it is 100 dinars, but it must not be more than 70% of the tax charged. So we have an incentive for both small and medium-sized enterprises, relatively strong. We think this would be too much in the conditions where we have to make fiscal consolidation, and so far it's not applied, so basically if we go to an increase in the profit tax rate, to make fiscal consolidation, it would be the exact opposite of what we're doing, that we're now giving an exception that we've never given before, and we have to lower the deficit. So that was why we deleted this article that was never essentially applied from this bill that should be a permanent character.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6858	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6859	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, the DSS is proposing an amendment to Article 21 by making an amendment to Article 21 after saying: "... Delete," a new position or new Article 46a was to be added, which reads: "All those legal entities, which during the current accounting year, reinvest more than 60% of the profits achieved in the underlying assets, i.e. to modernise and expand the material base into a activity that is primary and achieved, of course, in the Republic of Serbia, or commit to reinvesting that amount in the coming year, in full to free the company's profits tax. "Certainly, the release of this tax on profits obtained from the previous position should exclude reinvestment from obtaining passenger vehicles, certainly if it is not in firms where it is a basic activity, also to exempt and obtain office materials, of course, again, if it is not computer equipment and furniture for hotel or catering facilities. The explanation that we would give here is that all these laws that regulate economic and economic areas should be primarily stimulating and stimulating. So this whole set of laws should also serve as a function of economic development and economy, in general. Of course, we should think about incentives, in terms of better productivity, better rentability, increasing the number of jobs, increasing, of course I said already, the material basics, so that all of this could be realized. If this amendment were accepted, we would have a situation so that investors who reinvest 60% would have a company that would be much more expensive on the market, and also 40% could get paid without paying taxes on the same one. The company's annual balance sheet would certainly be more credible, more realistic, significantly reduced hidden profits from many companies, as I said investment in production plants would increase, which would increase the production process in some ways, and thus new employment. It would significantly increase the production of goods and services, which would again affect higher GDP, and hence the higher value added tax, so certainly stimulating and stimulating laws should be, above all, accepted here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6860	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 23rd amendment, in the same text, together were the MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Močević, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6861	The respected presidency, Mr. Minister, proposed by law, article 23, is predicted to remove tax incentives for investments in undeveloped areas. We have debated in this House dozens of times what Serbia's biggest problems are, and I think we agree that one of Serbia's biggest problems is the huge differences in the development of certain regions, where these differences range from Belgrade, as the most developed region, to 1:10, and to municipalities in southern or eastern Serbia, even to 1:15. The direct link between the economic underdevelopment of a particular region is the backdrop of certain areas, which directly affects the huge emigration of the population from undeveloped areas. Today we have a situation that in Serbia dozens of villages have practically disappeared from the country's face. No one lives there anymore, and if this trend continues, it's likely that in the next 20 or 30 years that number will be much higher. So the point of the story is that the state should encourage all possible ways to encourage economic operators to invest in undeveloped areas, to ensure the economic existence of the population, so that it remains in those areas, so as not to move and to survive these ends. You can't expect a young man who was born in an undeveloped area to stay here to live if he finishes college or if he stays with high school if he doesn't have a job. They'll have jobs when the state helps those investors invest in those areas, hire those people. No one will invest in Kursumli, which is 300km away from Belgrade, because there are no good roads, because the educational workforce is far from Kursumlia. So there must be some other incentive to attract him to invest there, to have a higher profit, to have reduced taxes, to any kind of tax, to make a greater profit. So we think it is absolutely unacceptable for the state to deny tax reliefs to invest in undeveloped areas, as this will further affect migration and the desolation of Serbia, especially those parts that are underdeveloped.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6862	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6863	The Liberal Democratic Party also believes it is poor to lift incentives for capital gains tax, which existed for newly established firms operating in underdeveloped areas. It is clear to all of us that all major investors, including the smaller ones, will prefer to invest their funds in Belgrade, along the highway, but unfortunately Serbia is a country where we have many undeveloped areas. All these undeveloped areas are far from the highway. Mr. Minister, you know very well that access from these undeveloped areas to the highway is extremely bad because we have a bad road and bad rail traffic. What is it that the state can offer investors, whether they are domestic or foreign, to invest their capital in underdeveloped areas? We also need to be aware of the fact that older people live in these underdeveloped areas. The younger ones mostly move to Belgrade or go abroad. Investment in underdeveloped areas is necessary to prevent this. This release was one of the motives for investors to invest there. If we put an end to it now, we can expect only central Serbia, Belgrade and perhaps part of the Vojvodina. Southeast Serbia can forget about its development. In that sense, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Members of Parliament should support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6864	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I mean, if not in this law, even in the future, we should consider this amendment, given that it makes sense to me. So, giving privileges to some rural area, some undeveloped area was far better and far more meaningful in this law to install it than we gave privileges to foreign domestic banks. I want to say that this law provides that foreign banks guaranteed by the domestic state, so we can consider them domestic banks, as it says in this law, resident banks that buy government bonds, which we owe to these banks, are exempt from the income tax on interest that they collect when buying securities of value. Since these banks are full of money, given that they are rich bankers, since they are also people who work in these banks and get huge incomes, huge salaries thanks to the revenues they make from the state, because the state is in debt there and this year are interest revenues in these banks 46 billion. If we take that profit tax to 15%, then this year they're exempt from income tax from interest on state-owned securities worth seven billion. So we've been arguing so much, it seems to me, with the Dukes, and we've easily forgiven the overrich bankers, the foreign banks that on this field, at the expense of our economy and the population are harvesting huge revenues. At this point our population owes six billion, the economy 14 billion, and the state nine or ten. So these banks are full of our money. Our money is being betrayed, they're picking up fat interest rates, and for those incomes, they're being taxed on profit. I think we should think in the future that it's better to make it easier to get into rural areas, that stimulation has companies that invest there, that tax incentives have those companies in terms of profit tax, than that those reliefs have over-rich banks, because it looks like a million-dollar kidnapping to give to millionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6866	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6867	The reason we've lifted this relief is because it hasn't practically come back to life. According to the tax administration's records, the amount of total release across Serbia under this article was 670,000 dinars. Only two companies used it. It's literally an ineffective privilege. There is no effect if only two companies report that amounting to 669,065 dinars. That's about six thousand euros. It is not a method to encourage the development of underdeveloped areas. We have other ways to encourage them. This is a win-win relief. To motivate someone to invest money, that relief certainly won't be overwhelming, because he has to make a profit there first and get a relief. Only two companies in the whole country used it this year. It's been there for years, and it hasn't had any effect. We felt that it was not in line with EU directives and then we said if no one was using... And we have broken them. I'd still be breaking if it had any effect. We decided to help build the infrastructure another way. Someone said well – if there is no highway, if there is no availability of infrastructure, you can give me no tax relief, no one will go into underdeveloped areas. That's why it's the government's plan to develop infrastructure evenly first, so that someone might even think about getting out of Corridor 10. You've made this absolutely right. This relief is not enough, nor is it a motive to attract someone, and it is not used in practice. It's been standing there for years, not being used.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6868	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6869	I didn't know about this information, that the state of Serbia released only 700,000 dinars of profit-making enterprises, but then in the explanation you gave, it shouldn't say that it would endanger business policy and inflows into the public revenue budget. I think that's a funny explanation. If there's no charge, then there's no risk of a budget. I understand that this measure has not given effect, but that is not the way to end this measure. Let's add another one, make a set of measures that will be compatible with each other, so that they all deliver results. It's not the point of deciding that if she didn't give the effect that we would end her. I think that we need to deepen these measures and give as much incentive as possible of various species and help, as the Government of the previous years has been giving incentives through direct funding in the workplace, that we may be thinking in the direction of reducing VAT for certain branches, which will be an incentive for that area, so that in this way, if the wood industry is not going, let's just encourage the wood industry in Kursumlia to be 15% instead of 20%, so maybe that 5% will be the motive to open the factory there, and the opening of the factory will employ someone. I simply state the example in which direction to think. The story is that the state in every possible way encourages people to go and transfer capital to underdeveloped areas, open up companies and employ people. If we don't have people in places, we won't have room. If we don't have people in those places, we won't even have a border guard. She can't survive on her own if she had 37,000 inhabitants, and now she has 12,000. If it goes on like this, in 10 years, it'll be five. When you don't have a population, you don't even have a territory. It's simply the greatest national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6870	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6871	I fully agree with you on that. Our idea is to intervene in such areas as we did in Kursumlia with the launch of Shik Kopalnik. In the previous period, we invested 15m euros in equipment reconstruction and 500 people were employed there. Of course, it also benefits households who cut down the forest and then sell it to them. I agree with you that the explanation given in the amendment is not well written. That's why we have a lot of laws, a lot of amendments, and probably not our services responded well. I'm taking the opportunity to apologize on their behalf. This was the exact answer why that incentive was lifted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6872	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Ruzica Igic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Gajic, you are not the amendment promoter, and your parliamentary group has no basis. Please, let's move on. National MPs Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčević, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted the 27th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6873	So, the exact same story as the previous member. Tax reliefs for investment in the underlying asset are being abolished again. I think that's the wrong move. If the answer is that it wasn't effective enough, it doesn't mean that it needs to be abolished. Let's find a way to stimulate additional measures so that we don't stop the ones we have. If there was no effect in the sense that the state has helped someone, it means they won't have any effect in the opposite way, that they're income. Let's, through the system measures that I've talked about on the subject of the previous amendment, wrap the undeveloped areas into various legislative proposals through the development strategy, so that we can influence that undeveloped areas remain alive. That the people in which they live can have some perspective, not end schools and go to bigger places. The age structure in these areas is disastrous, the percentage of people who do not work in them is much higher than it is in larger cities, not to talk about Belgrade. Receipts, average things and so on are far from what can be called normal life, so that the state has to systematically influence and break that negative trend. Perhaps something similar to the example in Switzerland that you have different rates of tax, depending on the degree of development, so maybe the salary tax should not be the same in Belgrade and Surdulica, or in the White Palanca, Blac or anywhere else that has a far lower level of development.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6874	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6875	Just informatively to tell you. Based on this article in previous Law 50b, this year's release was used by zero companies, zero dinars. So there was no one who used it at all, so we suspended that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6876	The word is Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6877	Mr. Dinkic like this when you say that there are zero companies, and here I fully agree with you, that it has achieved such tax incentives. This should be worrying for both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that you in underdeveloped areas do not have any release in the matter if the businessmen have invested in equipment. What does that tell us? It shows very little investment in underdeveloped areas, which means that we have a large number of unemployed people there. The state won't lose anything if it leaves this tax relief. If not used in 2012 it may be used next year. Just because relief is lifted, but in two members, we can really say that we will not have investment in underdeveloped areas in the next period. I find that very bad for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6878	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, who is entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6879	Just for a little while. This information that no company has benefited and that the state has given no incentive directly tells us that there are still no favourable conditions for investment. If they're not good investment conditions, it means that the state is still burdening the economy. So it needs to be further reduced, not abolished. That incentive was given in part and he had no effect. If it's an incentive to stay doesn't matter that it didn't have any effect, give us another incentive and maybe next year it'll be useful. I think we're going the other way. The point of the story is that we give a greater incentive to achieve an effect. By responding to something that has not been effective, we have practically raised our hands from underdeveloped areas, we will leave them to ourselves and let them know how they know and know. Let those areas die, and that is ultimately in complete contrast with your party's policy. You're talking about regional development, about even development, and here we have various measures that are being abolished. I'm not saying that they're going to have a direct impact on that now, but it needs systemic measures that will be much more, through various laws that are compatible with the impact of more investment in undeveloped areas and their municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6880	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6881	I'm just saying that this measure is not effective for what it wants to achieve. I share the objectives with you that you need to invest directly in these areas. What's an alternative to this, to free someone if they invest, some profit tax if they make it happen, is to get the state directly into the money there. Obviously, the private sector has no interest in investing money in undeveloped areas, I'm talking about new businesses. The infrastructure must be built first and there needs a common consensus to be made, to give priority. We gave government to create even infrastructure all over Serbia. Without that, no tax incentives will work. Secondly, here's the example of the Bather, the Sheik, that's a good example. It should be done in 40 municipalities at least one such case, where obviously if there is no private sector, the market will never bring, I don't know with what incentives. The state of the Development Fund's budget has to invest money to hire people, aware of the fact that it's not marketable, but the facts you've just brought out that without people in these areas, there's no such territory. In this regard, I share with you the full objectives, only we believe that this law is not a weapon that we can achieve that goal, but it is a direct and much greater investment in infrastructure and even direct investment in production plants in underdeveloped areas. At least that's the case by the state if the market won't bring in the private sector before the infrastructure is built.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6882	The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6883	I fully agree with you that the priority in development should be infrastructure. Without infrastructure, you can't expect certain areas to be invested. You mentioned an example of the Copalnik and the state investment. He's over the problem in the short term. I'm not sure he solved it. What do I think might be the solution? That's where the state invested its money. Can the state invest their money everywhere? What's the problem? It can't be safe. So he needs to find the incentive measure. I mentioned an example just before, let's say a smaller VAT on certain areas and certain branches of the economy. Then someone with private capital will have more interest in making an example. furniture in Kursumlia or to build a plant for the processing of plants in Svrlig, because there will be more money there because it will be less VAT than elsewhere. That's why they're moving capital from developed areas to underdeveloped areas. For example, salary tax doesn't have to be the same everywhere. There doesn't have to be a separation everywhere for the pension and social alike in Belgrade or elsewhere. It is a different set of measures that must affect, or attract, those who have money and invest there because they will have fewer deductions and taxes. He will be left with more money and will have motive to move and if it is not close to large consumer centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6884	The word has Minister Dinkic. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6885	There I can agree in part with you, but neither is VAT that instrument that can be used. He has to be uniformed. In all countries, the same VAT rate is equal because it is a consumption tax. There are other taxes that can be reduced and above all taxes on production, before profit taxes, because profit must be made first. You have to have a cost-effective production. In many countries, it is a tax on earnings and we think when conditions are obtained after fiscal consolidation to be the first thing, together with the contributions that should go down. Another thing that we think about, now that 80% of the income tax belongs to local self-government, that, as in Scandinavian countries, we may leave one special law to amend this law, the right to decide on their own how much of their income tax remains. Then I can also make local self-government that if they want to go with a lower profit tax rate than the one that is maximumly prescribed by the Republic law. That's what Scandinavian countries did. I'm inclined to make one analysis and propose one such solution and then the municipalities themselves, as they can handle the property tax, have the right to arrange this part of the income tax belonging to the locale. Generally, by reducing taxes on production, it is a method for someone to have an interest in investing, and then they're just thinking about profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6886	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Just to remind you that the time of your parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6887	Thank you. I think I fully understand everything Minister Dinkic said and I think all the MPs who spoke about this amendment, including the minister, are at the same job. It's because of some facts, ministers, which are so catastrophic that it's minutes to 12 to take the state's systemic measures. During the transition of regional differences from 1.5, the Czech Republic also increased to 1.9, but then by a series of country systemic measures and with the help of the EU, it managed to bring the difference down to some bearable measure. Just the fact that in the next five to ten years, if there are no systemic solutions to the state, we will lose 25% of the village. We now have more inhabitants than 65 years of age than under 15. In 360 villages in Serbia, no child has been born in the last ten years. Serbia resembles an old mattress with feders that keep breaking out and constantly showing up in some new devastated areas. Of course, this is benign, and if this amendment were accepted, it would not have had any effect, but I do, and this is more recommended to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that we are all thinking in the same way, that a series of systemic measures that put the country at risk and the country's economic recovery and recovery of the nation, in 2035, if this negative demographic trend continues, would be for 700 thousand fewer people in Serbia, and not to talk about being threatened alongside Southeast Serbia, especially Banat, who feels the terrible consequences of a negative transition. That's why I don't think it's an accent on this... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm ending up with a benign measure, but I think it's really a minute to 12 that the state and the entire government are starting to think strategically about solving this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6888	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 28th amendment in the same text together were submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 30th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, submitted an amendment to Article 51. Proposer representative Mr Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, accepted the amendment at the Committee's session. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 52 be added after Article 51. Proposer representative Mr Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, accepted the amendment at the Committee's session. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCISATION LAW, in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Milan Lapčević, Olgica Batic and Srdjan Mikovic, as well as amendments submitted by the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Before we move to the particulars of the search, I remind you that MP Zoran Kasalovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to article 7. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6889	And when there were stories of budget rebalancing and a set of accompanying laws, the DSS parliamentary group also intervened on this proposal of the excise law, because it believes that the burden of liquid oil gas as the only ecological green energy should be far less than the load of other fossil fuels for many reasons. I think that story is familiar to everyone and shouldn't be repeated here. I believe that by burdening liquid oil gas with this amount of excise duty, it will lead to a number of people no longer switching to the use of liquid oil gas, but will be defined as diesel fuel or gasoline, which will directly affect the consumption of this energy, environmental pollution, greenhouse effect, etc. All countries in the region and Europe encourage green energies in every way possible. I think the state of Serbia should also do this. It is said here that the burden is somewhat lower than on other oil derivatives, but I think that in this socio-economic situation, where citizens of Serbia, whose exit and state aid have also had a lower price of liquid oil gas, has therefore changed to the use of this oil derivative. We find it entirely justified that these excise duties are not changed, that they are changed far lower and thus allow for greater use of liquid oil gas as a green energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6890	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 2a be added. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added to the post-Article 3a. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12a be added to the post-member 12a. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON TERMINATION OF MONEY OBLIGATIONS IN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS, in particular. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular on the proposals of the law of the 5th to 12th agenda, I have called on the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Prof. Dr. Žarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Sessions Attending and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Andrijana Stojković, Senior Head of the Agency for Priva, Dragodar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance of Finance and Finance of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mirnaksksktrvr. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Srdjan Mikovic, Janko Veselinović, Ivan Jovanovic, Ivan Bauer, Nenad Popovic, Bojana Krkic, the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received the Government's opinion on amendments to the MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Srdjan Mikovic tabled an amendment to the amendment proposed an amendment to the name of the bill. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6891	To Article 1. The bill, the amendment was submitted by my colleague Janko Veselinovic, who spoke of it in principle. I'll replace him now, since he's not here. In the draft law, the deadlines for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, according to our proposal, Article 1 is amended and reads as follows: "This law regulates the deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions between the public sector and economic operators". We throw this out to apply to contracts, to relationships between the businesses themselves. Those provisions restricting the freedom to negotiate for entrepreneurs and economic operators are contrary to Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Law on Liabilities, Article 516 and other members who provide freedom of contract, which is the basis of the Law on Liabilities. Under the Law on Liabilities, the contract is a law for parties and we believe that there must be no other restriction between economic operators than what the parties provide for by the contract. In addition, those provisions concerning contracts between economic operators are not in line with EU Directive 2011/7, since 16 February 2011, which restricts the payment period between economic operators only if it is not otherwise prescribed by a contract between economic operators, and if it is not fair to the contractors, just as I just said, that according to our law the contract is a law for parties and they can absolutely freely negotiate deadlines in which they will pay their obligations. That's their thing. This provision, in its large penalties for their non-application, would lead to serious difficulties for economic operators operating on the edge of liquidity. For a large number of them, this could also mean a lack of action, especially as any delay could produce serious economic consequences for them. The problem of a monopoly of large suppliers can be solved through changes and strict application of existing anti-monopol laws, not by introducing new state restrictions, which do not see the current economic capacity of economic operators. In the light of the bill's proposal, the two countries that passed similar regulations, Croatia and Slovenia, are cited as examples, but these countries only limited the time limits for payment for public sector relations with economic operators. Finally, to say that we are absolutely in the position that economic operators, in accordance with the existing Constitution, and with the positive legal regulations and with EU directives, have the right and freedom to negotiate payment deadlines, that is their thing. We don't think the state should get in the way of these relationships, because it'll do more harm than good. Therefore, if the parties agree on a 90-day payment period, it should be respected, and after that, if that does not happen, they shall apply these provisions relating to their punishment and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6892	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6893	I already said in the principle debate why the government stood at the view of limiting payment deadlines, of course, in the first place of the state towards the private sector, but also between the private sector, because of the very large indiscipline that is causing the current indifference. However, we respect the freedom to negotiate, so we have proposed to the Assembly Committee on Finance, together to define the amendment, which entered as an integral part of this text, that we will allow the private sector when it contracts payment deadlines between them, so that they can be paid for over 60 days, but if they are provided with a bank guarantee or an invalid menu. This way we protect these weak little creditors, small businesses, because this way their claims will be protected by bank guarantees, avalanche bonds. If someone accepts it for 150 days, and is provided with a bank guarantee, he knows that they will have that money then, if he accepts it voluntarily. In other words, we understood the fear of entering the freedom of the contract between private companies, and we solved it in this way, thus strengthening the payment security, because in our proposal for an amendment proposed by the Assembly Committee on Finance, we said that it must be a bank guarantee containing clauses – unrelenting, unconditional, chargeable on the first call, without objection, or advocacy by the bank, as a form of security for the payment of the debt. Here, in this way, it seems to me that we have also succeeded in respecting the freedom to negotiate, and to strengthen discipline in payments, which is the goal of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6894	Mr. Djidić, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6895	I still don't think we should touch the freedom of the treaty in any way. If the parties contract a payment period of 90 days or 150, as you said, it should be so and should not be legally prescribed that the trustee secures his claim, whether with a bank guarantee or an invalid menu, for the simple reason it costs. So whoever gets the bank guarantee costs. We already know what conditions our economy operates today and that every dinar is extremely difficult for the businessmen. So if the parties contract and it suits them that the payment period is 150 days, let's make it 150 days, and after 150 days, let's apply all the penalties provided for by law. I think it's a good solution and it suits the economy. I repeat, you have taken one step in the freedom of contract, but you have limited them by a bank guarantee, an avalanche menu. That's what it costs. That's what someone has to pay for. In these difficult conditions, we must take care of the businessmen. You know how the budget is charged and how the contributions are paid. So instead of paying contributions for the workers, he'll have to give money for the avalanche note. It's not right, and I think you should accept this amendment, because it's in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6896	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6897	It's not in the interest of everyone, it's in the interest of those companies who want to fool their debtors. For two years now, serious businessmen have insisted that payment restrictions be imposed. That's what we did. What the serious businessmen asked the previous government, the new government did. We don't want a law that will be sugar water, but if we're already limiting that the state has to discipline itself and become a liquidity generator in the economy by paying 45 days, then it has to commit itself and the private sector to pay each other for 60 days. If someone wants the deadline to be longer, and this one accepts it, pay for the bank guarantee, they won't pay if they pay within 60 days. There's no cost of a bank guarantee, so let him calculate what's more favourable to him. We don't want to leave many small and medium-sized enterprises in the wind of large debtors who can blackmail them and pay them after, I don't know, 200-300 days. In Serbia, the average payment deadline is 135 days. It is about 45 days in EU countries. Let's see, we left a 60-day deadline for the private sector plus a possibility and longer deadlines, but then with a bank guarantee or an avalanche note. We think it's an absolute solution that provides freedom of contract. In doing so, we have put these two serious payment securitys into the law, and that makes us more secure in the legal system. Once again, all the good businessmen thought that 60 days was a lot, that we should have gone even more rigorously. We have made this weaker part of the economy a solution like this, but some other compromise is not ready to accept, and that is why we have rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6898	Mr. Giddick, I've closed the circle of replicas, but you can use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6899	I'll be very brief. So, I don't think we understand each other. We absolutely support what is done, but we must leave freedom for the businessmen to negotiate how it suits them. Why should we interfere with business entities when both correspond to the payment deadline not being 60, but 90 days? I don't see why we should make someone pay in 60 days when his trustee says he can pay in 90 days. When 90 days are up, it is not disputed to apply all the legal provisions, because no agreement is respected. I don't see any economic operators harming them. What's important is that you've provided security funds. I say again, it costs. I think it's much better that instead of going to the banks, he goes to the state register, because he can happen not to pay for the contributions, because he has to pay for the bank guarantee. I don't see any reason, and there's no sugar water. Absolutely in the spirit of this law. What some businessmen are looking for for for 60 days is fine, but let them deal with their debtor. Then he won't give a 60-day deadline, he'll give a shorter or longer term. Let's not restrict and order economic operators to pay for 60 days. What are we going to do, if he's the last money to settle that legal obligation to the trustee, and on the other hand, then he won't have the money to pay the workers, he won't have the money to pay the debt to the state? That's what I'm talking about, not making people do something they don't have to do, and it's in the interest of both parties. So think about it. I think this is a really good amendment and that you should adopt it, because economic operators don't lose anything. That's their deal. If they fail to comply with the agreement, all sanctions set out in the law shall be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6900	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Are you using MPs' time?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6901	Yes, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I'll just take a minute. There is a culture of non-payment in Serbia. It's something that dominates a previous period. The state needs to find a comprehensive solution to solve this problem. It is impossible to solve the matter systemically without solving problems in the judiciary, especially the Law on Implementation and Security. I don't know if, Mr. Minister, you've talked to counterpart Selakovic about seriously reviewing the solutions to the law on enforcement and security. We must cut off that culture and attack it from several sides. One way is this. We suggested that this whole job be introduced in a way phase to limit payments. That's what our authorised representative was talking about. It cannot be solved without an effective judiciary and an amendment to the law on enforcement and security. If the debtors, who have been most protected in this country for years, know that the trustee can sue them whenever he wants to have different mechanisms to avoid paying through the existing law on enforcement and security, avoid court perpetrators, private perpetrators, no fear will continue with that policy to pay no one anything, to be in debt, to take goods and to pay no one. I think it's very important that the matter be completely rounded up and that without good solutions in the law in the field of justice, especially the law on enforcement, this can't be over.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6902	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Bauer. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6903	Thank you. If I'm out of time, I'll use the MP's time. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the SDPS parliamentary group fully supports the good intentions of the legislator to address the accumulated problems of indifference in Serbia's financial system and to stand in the way of the financial indiscipline that is present with us. However, we also have certain suggestions that we have translated into this amendment, which we consider to improve the proposal for this law, in particular Article 3 which we have submitted to the amendment. It is enough to go from the premise that the proposer gives in the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, which says that when this law was written that it came from Directive 2011/7 adopted by the European Parliament and then by the European Commission. The SDPS welcomes the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Serbia with EU legislation. We expect it to be fully consistent in this harmonisation. In spite of the fact that in one part the legislator has taken over the basic idea of Directive 2011/7 of the EU and concerning the limitation of payment deadlines, he has not fully applied it. For this reason, the SDPS was forced to react for several reasons. Since I cannot come from the adoption of the amendment submitted by the Finance Committee, I will first discuss this proposed law resolution, and then I will say why we oppose the proposed amendment of the Finance Committee. As regards the proposed solution that we have in the law at this point as a proposal, what we see as a problem with this proposal is that Directive 2011/7 of the European Commission is inconsistencies, which can have negative consequences for us. The first is that the European Commission can react negatively to our proposal, which is not fully harmonised with the EU's legislation, and then again, as the next consequence, we can have six months, one year or two years to be forced to write amendments and amendments to this law, because I assume that in our EU accession process we intend to fully harmonise our legislation with EU legislation. Further problems that are possible and could be removed, if the amendment of the Finance Committee is adopted, are as far as the original proposal is possible contrary to the Constitution, given that Article 3 of this law, which is the subject of this discussion, the Constitutional Court of Serbia can theoretically declare unconstitutional, because I am not sure that it is fully in accordance with Article 82. The constitution, and it is possible that it is not in agreement with Article 84. The Constitution. Further problems that may arise are the potential negative consequences of the state's external trade balance and the development of entrepreneurship in Serbia, but I will not discuss this much now, as I suppose the amendment proposed by the Finance Committee will be adopted, thus removing the problems that are related to this point that I'm now talking about. As for the amendment submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, I would like to say just a few words why we have submitted this amendment and which is why we think this amendment is better than the solution proposed by the government, or the legislator of this law. What appears in our amendment is that Directive 2011/7, i.e. Article 3(5), is fully and consistently applicable, which is currently talking about limiting payment deadlines. I would remind you that this directive was normally adopted on 16 February 2011, and is beginning to apply in all EU Member States, i.e. all EU members are obliged to fully harmonise their legislation with this Directive by 16 March 2013. Since we intend to join the EU, at some point we too will have to fully implement this directive, i.e. Article 3(5), from which, to be perfectly honest, our amendment is prescribed, i.e. because there is a need for full harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. The second thing that is very important, which this amendment of ours, we believe, provides, is that it gives total freedom to negotiate for all market participants, i.e. to advocate a free market. That's what I was saying when I was talking about a possible problem that the Constitutional Court might recognize in Article 3, in that original bill we got. The next thing that is very important, which is the essence of Directive 2011/7 of the European Commission, is that it was actually brought to protect the business sector in the EU. As far as I know, we are constantly seeking to protect the business sector, i.e. the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, i.e., say, in these talks that exist, negotiations and, ultimately, some of the purchasing relations between small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. entrepreneurship, are weaker sides. So the idea of the directive was to protect the weaker side. Our amendment, I think, is better off protecting the weaker side of this proposal than the one proposed. As for the amendments to the Committee, which I suppose will be adopted, so I will only speak in a few words about it, so that I don't have to answer the word afterwards, because I assume that Minister Dinkic will be replicating, I will only say why we think that even by that amendment we don't remove all the problems that exist in Article 3. It's a bill of law. So, we continue to have inconsistencies in this amendment in the application of Directive 2011/7, because the second part of that article, Article 5, is still not used, which says that the payment period can be extended for more than 60 days, provided that the rights of the weaker are protected. There is no such thing in this amendment submitted by the Committee. The second thing that is very important, which is already mentioned by counterpart Djidic, is that bank guarantees and avalanches have their price. According to the information I received from the bankers, the cost of bank guarantees and avalanche is 0.3%, and this is calculated quarterlyly. Someone's got to pay for it, that price of 0.3%. The most logical solution is that they will go to the weaker ones, and these weaker ones are called or consumers, which will say that prices will increase, as they will say - the pressure on inflation, which is either in a hurry or will fall on others, which is entrepreneurs, i.e. the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is again something we are trying to prevent from this law, or what is trying to prevent the Directive. In the end, perhaps this burden will be taken over by large merchants, which is also a problem, because according to the information I received from them, they are currently operating with relatively small margins and for them the 0.3% can also not be insignificant. And also, what we think is very important, I'm going to end up with this, so I don't owe it, because I can see that I've already made it pretty long, and I apologize to my colleagues for that, and what was a problem in the recent past wasn't just that the payment deadlines broke, but we had another problem, which may have been even more serious, which was that it wasn't paid at all. So, not only did the entrepreneurs have a problem with being late, but they had a problem with someone not wanting to pay them, and they didn't dare sue someone, because they would have been kicked out of a system where they had to be, because if they weren't in the system, they would fail. So that's why we think that the amendment that we have submitted is better, because it regulates the system through strengthening control, and we have an additional proposal to do that, which is something that was adopted in Great Britain, which has improved this Directive by adopting the Codex so-called. Prompt payments, which were signed by all major merchants and which they had pledged to pay in time, thus showing their social responsibility and, by all accounts, collected certain points for themselves and made the entrepreneurial sector feel safer. In this sense, I will quote Mark Rice, the Secretary of State in the Government of Great Britain, who says – the security of payment stimulates investment and growth. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6904	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6905	We did not accept this amendment for the reason that, unfortunately, the situation in Serbia in terms of payments is radically different from in EU countries, whose directive you quoted. We, however, wrote to the European Commission and gave it a proposal for this solution and explained it. Why are we going more radically than the European Union? Because even in Britain, which you're talking about, it's possible that the trade chains sign the code and respect it. Can you imagine in Serbia the idea that now voluntary trade chains sign the code that they will pay for something within 60 days or 90 days? Without the law and without coercion, it turned out in the previous period that it wasn't possible. We talked to the trade chains, all the big ones in Serbia, we came to the point that literally everyone but one is willing to respect this law without a problem and can respect it. This last one will respect you because it'll come out of the game unless he respects it. They have a chance, if they sell goods to the wars, and most of them sell to the wars, to pay within 90 days. It exists in this law. So the trade chains aren't at all controversial here in any way at all. Let's see what happens to the others. Who is it that needs to secure a bank guarantee if the payment period between the private sector is longer than 60 days? It's a debtor. We don't want to protect more debtors, we want to get them to pay in time, so they don't have that extra cost of bank guarantee or the issue of an abolized bond. There's one more thing. He was right to be a colleague of the DSS when he said that if this law applied to the system that nothing else had changed, it would probably be condemned to failure. However, we are doing a whole series of preparations to make this law work effectively. The first preparation was to clean up the country's existing debts and prepare for the state to start paying within 45 days. The second preparation is a conditional tax amnesty, which will be discussed in the amendments after the discussion of this law, where companies will be able, if they pay their obligation to November and December, and if they regularly pay current monthly commitments, to freeze their tax debt until October 31st and to write off their interest when they are regularly serviced. In other words, liquidity will increase and have something to do with it. On the one hand, the state also planned such a double deficit and now has enough liquid assets to regularly carry out all the material costs and develop control mechanisms to respect it. So why leave the private sector behind? Serbia does not need a fine regulation of this. It takes shock therapy. This is shock therapy, that's what the businessmen said at the public discussion, and we did it on purpose. We think that some fine regulation in the system of complete venison, indiscipline, chaos, does not bring results. But our idea was -- come on, you accused the state of being late for paying the private sector. Now let's get on the line, the state's going for 45 days, and why can't you two be together for 60 days? Okay, there are weaker companies, then they cover their debt or menu with a bank guarantee, and they're all protected in the system. That is why the European Commission has not challenged this member. We've been writing, it's been a month and a half, I'm sure we'd get a different answer, and especially with this amendment of the Assembly Committee, I think we've been completely over the problem. Finally, what's the matter with your amendment, even with the Ministry of Finance? You have proposed a solution which is essentially prescribed in the European Directive where it says - a contract between economic operators cannot provide for a period of settlement of monetary obligations of more than 60 days, unless it is otherwise agreed under the agreement of both parties and if such a period is longer than 60 days, then this is crucial – does not constitute significant damage to the trustee. Then it is said later -- the finance minister adopts an act defining what is important, and what is the trustee and the way and the procedure of monitoring the implementation of the obligation. You're often criticizing me about why many things we arrange to handle underlaws. Here, now we've put everything in the law, so the minister doesn't arbitration, especially, and how do we say, what is significant and what is it for the trustee. It's so arbitral, I just don't know how to do it in practice to keep an eye on them. It is possible that due to the fair play that exists in the EU, which is why late payments are not longer than 30 to 45 days, it is possible there. In Serbia, if the minister or government defined these terms, I don't know how it would be in practice. That's why we decided on radical shock therapy and we'll see how it works. We'll try to make it the maximum effects. He's right, the DSS, when he says that the court is an important element in all of this, or an executive procedure, but this is one big test for the state, too, if the state passes it, I'm sure the private sector will have to follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6906	Thank you. Mr. Bauer, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6907	I'm sorry, I said I wouldn't answer the line, but only two sentences. So, precisely because you said you were being criticised for not accepting the amendments, although you accepted some of our amendments in the previous period, that's why we went with a solution that would leave a slightly bigger space for the ministry to define these things. Otherwise, these things are defined in full by Article 7 of this Directive 2011/7, so that it could absolutely be prescribed and inserted either into the law or leave room for the ministry by adopting a sublegal act to regulate it. So that was why we didn't taxfully state what we mean by what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6908	Thank you. Mr. Lapcevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6909	From the time of the authorized representative. So we understand all these reasons that you have stated and we welcome the government's intention and you personally to go into solving the huge problem of the Serbian economy, which is the indifference and payment, i.e. the failure to pay the due commitments in time. As a result, tens of thousands of companies have been blocked, 80,000 companies are, according to some latest data, inequitable both in the blockade and in the process of shutting down. This is what many big companies, because they are big, have small businesses working with them, and they are blackmailing and not paying their dues in time to make extra profits. All story spins at the end of the key indifference generator, and that's the state. You are aware that the state is the biggest default and that according to the data that we have the state currently owes over a billion euros for various obligations towards suppliers, contractors and the like. It is a good intention for the state to limit itself and to say that in the future, within 45 days, every commitment will have to pay. Personally, I welcome your intention to shock therapy to cut it suddenly and take another step, but one logical question is raised. If the budget of the Republic of Serbia is in an uninvited position, where do we get a billion euros of free funds to suddenly carry out all these obligations and go on paying all those contractual obligations within the deadlines provided for by the law? Limiting the deadlines for companies that do business with each other for 60 days is also a good step, it is a good intention, but it is a question of whether everyone will be able to respect that intention. For example, one example that can be a conflicting argument is that a construction company contracts works for example. for the implementation of facilities abroad and has payment contracts for a year, year and a half, depending on the conditions of the tender. The company is engaged by Serbia's subcontractor and has an obligation to pay within 60 days. In that case, the company must either take bank loans that are quite expensive to comply with the obligations of the law, or must resort to that other way, to negotiate longer payment deadlines, but to take on bank guarantees that are once again the cost of the company. During the previous period, various companies, suppliers, workers provided certain services to the state in order to show up at all in the tender must give payment conditions, get jobs, when it comes to performing works, to perform these works takes a certain time, a month, two, three, depending on what type of work is and scope. In order to do that job, they have to take if they don't have free funds, and usually companies don't, they have to take credit, they have to charge fuel, they have to repromate, they have to pay workers, they have to take credit with the bank. This loan is, of course, the cost and it is charged from 15 to 25% depending on which bank is taken credit. When the work is completed after three months, the firm points out the final situation towards the state. Right now she has to pay the VAT, and she has to take the loan again, pay the interest again, and then the state pays her after three, four, six months, maybe a year. What happened in the meantime, in that year? In a year's time, the rate has changed, in a year's time, the assets that are hired by credit to the banks cost 25% of what's the principal. Practically, the story is that the companies that the state owes it to go down for a long time. Everything they've earned working with the state, practically eats the bank. In the whole process, only banks profit through loans and large interest payments. So that's what happened in the previous period, and that's where the banks profited. In this case, when we predict deadlines that are 60 days rare which firm will be able to comply with those deadlines. It is likely to go in a much larger number of cases to an agreed extension with a bank guarantee that will again cost the companies and again be a cost and again the banks will make a living on it. So, first of all, in business conditions, the state needs to work out a mechanism to ensure that those who work, practice, pay taxes from which the state lives, have as little cost as possible, that the state administration and state are as small a burden as possible, to be as efficient as possible, as rational as possible. This, practically, indirectly and directly, affects their bad business and practically their liquidity, i.e. indifference. This draft law shortening deadlines and giving, in practice, restrictions on the state for 45 days to private companies 60. The intention is excellent. Shock therapy is needed to solve these problems. The question remains whether we will be able to implement it in the work, especially, I think, the question of the state how much they will manage to implement, and probably you know better, given that you are familiar with the situation in the RS budget and how much the state can pay, from which funds. So we'll probably go into some new debt of 500 million, a billion euros, to pay off all those backlogs. In that second part, part of the economy, which probably won't be able to honor in the most part and its 60-day commitment, so there will be litigation and delay because the judiciary is as effective as we all know. So, just so it's not that we're classic critics, this intention is good, we welcome it, but it's not enough, it takes systemic measures and through far more efficient justice, and similar procedures, that processes last much shorter, because it's going to remain a dead letter on paper. If there's a trial, it takes months, we're free of payment deadlines when we get into that circuit so they don't pay each other, and then whoever didn't pay the other, he can't pay the one behind him, and then we have a chain of indifference that doesn't lead to anything. For us, it is an important first step, how the state will launch the whole story of increasing the liquidity of the economy, from where it will obtain these funds and how it will meet its obligations. Of course, it is our suggestion that it is much more flexible to look at corporate deadlines and that the measures that follow this measure are systemic and through the judiciary and through perhaps some other tax laws, so that the whole story can bear fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6910	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6911	We're very aware that this isn't a little simple work, but we're also aware that worse than this probably can't be. There's always worse than the worst, but this is really such a situation that you have to make that radical cut. We will not wait on March 31st when the application of this law and the application of these limited payment deadlines begins, but in this month we will clear one part of the state's debt to the private sector. In particular, we are now making a decision in the Government on Thursday to pay 4.8 billion dinars of debt to travel companies, such as the Road from Užica, Planuma, P.S.P. Belgrade, but at the same time, to ban the work so far from being able to arrange the work in a way, to get someone to perform the work, and to accept the contract that the state will pay for the work within four years, means 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and the works carried out in this year. That's insane, because there's no road company that can do that, that's four years to fund the state. What happened? What you've noticed, these road companies, to collect some of it, they've sold those claims to the banks on an enormous rate of interest. Banks stocked up on these companies, blocked them, and now if the state doesn't react, these companies go bankrupt. We decide that now in December, 4.8 billion dinars, we completely eliminate not only in 2012 but also in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Something that hasn't happened, we're going to pay four years in advance for the reason we're going to release these huge interest companies, which they're going to pay otherwise, but at the same time we're going to ban the Ministry of Traffic from making such contracts in the future, it's simply not fiscally responsible. The second thing is that, otherwise, when we looked at the total road delays, we would look at the republican enterprises, these are the roads of Serbia, the corridors and the Ministry of Transport. Turns out there's only the Ministry of Traffic later. I may have been a little surprised, but "Serbian Ways" have no delay at the moment. So everything that came to them, they paid everything. They probably need more contracts than they are now doing, but they do not currently have either "Serb Corridors" any later, while the Ministry of Traffic has made 4.8 billion delays, in the way I mentioned. As for other debts of the state, these are hospital debts, which we also resolve in a package of laws the government has proposed, 13 billion dinars, which will be taken over by the state and paid for in the next three years, and the hospitals will be excluded from the public procurement process for medicines and sanitary material. As far as the Health Fund's debt is concerned, it is currently 200 days late in paying off wholesales and additional 13 billion dinars and the Health Fund. We have reached one conclusion at the government, to order the Health Fund to cut the payment deadline to 150 days by the end of this year. So we're not waiting for next year, but we're cutting down in December with a stronger payment of that. Finally, we are left with the debts of the province and local self-government towards outstanding capital investments. The next Thursday, so within a week, in ten days, we will make another decision in the government, to offer all local self-governments and the province of Vojvodina, that if they want, they will settle their debts by 31 October of this year, so that the state will give them some kind of loan, a year's grace period and 24 months' payoffs in 2014 and 2015, and they would immediately trust bonds that could be sold on the market and thus be charged. If there is an interest of trustees and municipalities to regulate these obligations, as well as the provinces and their creditors, we will broadcast such bonds immediately after the New Year because we have made it possible by the Budget Act that this assembly has voted. Finally, the question, where does the state's money come from to settle it? It's a very simple thing, from the liquid assets that we provide six months in advance. We, as I said, have provided funds not to finance deficits in this year, but have effectively covered our commitments by May next year, with the broadcasting of euro bonds and our strategy is never to bring the state into a position that there are no more liquid funds in the budget approved by the Assembly, so that we will follow that trend in the coming years, not only in the coming years, but also in all future years. We will always have six months in advance, which we will use, however, to pay precisely established commitments with a reduced budget deficit, with a halt in public debt growth, as well as with financial discipline introduced. So this law we're talking about, you're absolutely right when you say it, is just one stone in a complete fiscal consolidation programme that needs to be provided for financial discipline in the country. Of course, we're aware that it won't do any good if we don't do all this. Thank you for this opportunity to tell you what we are going to do, so that the state may no longer effectively become in the situation in which it is now, which means reconciliation of these obligations – yes, because these obligations are there, these are obligations to the private sector, but the system is new to not making delays in the future. In health care, it is the introduction of centralised public procurement. As far as the tolls are concerned, there are no more ways of allowing contracts with these types for four or five years of payment, it has to be paid by situations within 60 days, spotlessly, and only what the state can pay. Therefore, discipline and control do not assume obligations beyond the Law on the Budgetary System, which means the punishment and prosecution of people in a state who would take on greater obligations than they have the right to the adopted financial plans, in the case of public undertakings, local self-government budgets, provinces or republics, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6912	Thank you. Replica, MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6913	Thank you for this exhaustive answer. Here's to refer to what you last said, responsibility for taking on commitments that aren't planned. When there was a debate on budget rebalancing, you were talking about taking commitments from the state, i.e. negotiations by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the previous one. According to the Law on Aid to the construction industry, for some, don't hold my hand, I don't know if I've memorized the exact data, but it's certainly about numbers that are three times larger than the budget allowed. Somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, 27 billion were allowed, and over 60 billion dinars were arranged. Will there be responsibility for what happened in the previous period? It is crucial for us to introduce order and take responsibility for those who have led to chaos and chaos. You yourself said that the state owes 13 billion hospitals for equipment and medicine, the 13 billion to suppliers. How long is the construction industry's debt, i.e. the ministry towards construction operations for many projects that have been implemented in the past two, three years, clean party projects implemented throughout Serbia and local self-government, which have been breached by the budget. The budget is not intended and is designed for pre-election purposes. No one is saying that what was done is not necessary for Serbia, but the question at which prices were agreed and the question is whether it is foreseen by financial plans. It's not. The numbers have been broken two or three times. You have a case of Nis and many other cities. Now we're in a situation where everyone's in big debt and the state needs to cover it. Since you said that the state provides funds in advance for at least six months, that it will pay off everything that is lagging behind, I'm interested in how much public debt will rise on that basis? There's no "perpetum mobile". We probably have to borrow somewhere to get liquid money to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6914	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6915	Public debt through our fiscal strategy will reach a maximum of 65% of GDP next year and will stop there and then start falling. Our plan is to reduce it to 58% by 2015. In other words, the peak of public debt growth as a result of the payment of the previous period will be 65% of GDP. He'll stop there. Why will it stop? Because we cut the budget deficit. We have three billion euros in start-up costs to pay only public debt liabilities made in previous years and the interest resulting from that, plus this deficit that we predicted of 3.6% of GDP or at the level of the consolidated state is about 130 billion. This, when added together, gives a 4.2 billion-euro figure, as long as it takes to close it. One part of it will be closed with revenues from selling state property next year. We didn't plan to do this in the budget, but we expect to make 200-300m euros out of it, and in this way we're going to reduce the debt already in the next year and, of course, on the basis of pre-financing for 2014, because I said we'd go six months ahead, so we have enough liquidity to finance not only the current year's commitments, but also to have in advance six months, so that what we're going to need to finance next year is going to be bigger than what will be paid in the current year, but we've made a cut by cutting the budget deficit, so that in the fiscal strategy we're planning to reduce to only 1% in 2015 and on that basis to 65% of the debt will stop, and it will already start next year at some level and then stand, so it will fall to 58% by 2015. Returning, we calculated that, and we agree with the IMF experts and with the Fiscal Council, with such a serious fiscal consolidation, regardless of what is really a radical change, to return to those legal limits, according to the Budgetary System Act to 45%, takes many years. It is only in 2020 that it is possible to even theoretically happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6916	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6917	You said that the state would partially settle the liabilities based on the taking of new loans, and part of the sale of assets. Is it meant to sell public enterprises, state and local? That's one thing. Secondly, from this data that you have now given us, that next year we will reach the maximum public debt of 65% of GDP, it practically indicates that the previous government has committed the state from 2008 to 2012, i.e. to increase its debt from 25% to 65% or translated into money with what you just collected, about four billion debts and the current nearly 15 billion foreign debt, we come to 20 billion foreign debt in 2008 and we had eight billion in 2008. These are concrete figures as much as we were happy by the previous government, in which you participated and with full capacity by 2011, and then your party without you until 2012. These debts are dictated by the biggest party in the government, by the finance minister, by the Prime Minister, but you cannot avoid full responsibility for your participation. You had to react in time if today you say that the state is in terrible trouble, that we must now take such radical measures. You could have reacted in time and said that you would not participate in what is obviously wrong for the state – senseless borrowing, entering into obligations that the state cannot wash away, or pay off, and now we are in a position to owe the tolls five billion, to hospitals 13, suppliers another 13 etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6918	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6919	If that's what you want, I have no problem taking responsibility for the Fukushima earthquake in Japan. So I don't have that responsibility problem. You know yourself that the responsibility for this kind of public debt, after my term as finance minister, is borne by the finance ministers who were after me. But if you're saying it's my fault, I am, so be it. What I'm saying is that I've already managed to make a 6% of GDP turn-off in three years, from the minus, to get Serbia into a surplus. I'll do it one more time. With this kind of support I have from coalition partners, I'm sure you'll succeed. Whoever is responsible for the previous periods will be deplaced to speak in a few years, when we have a complete twist.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6920	Thank you. The word has been sent to Mladen Grujic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6921	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, you have brought me into a very uncomfortable situation. I had a ready-to-exposure exhibit in which I wanted to talk about the good and the bad effects of your law. Bad effects were related to the consequences that trade chains would suffer in this law. Believe me, I've been well prepared to explain all my arguments to you, but you've thrown my entire speech out of my hands with the fact that you've adopted an amendment that allows, if there's a will of the agreed parties, to pay with an avalanche menu in the 60th day, and I'm going to have to cut my exposure in half. This bad effect of this law is erased. I have nothing to say, except that they may not know the matter, because the annual dinar debt is about 17% if you are able to get a loan, and the avalanche is costing you 0.03% a month, which is 3.6% a year. So if you have to choose between 17% and 3.6% on an annual basis, we don't need to discuss at all. Mr. Minister, you've cut my speech in half. Now I'd like to tell you why I was prepared to support your law, although I was worried about the trade chains. For a simple reason, not because of the coalition agreement and my obligation to support you, but because of the problem of general non-payment, as previous colleagues have said, chokes and chokes Serbia. The passing of this law was necessary nine or ten years ago, when we abolished the SDK. The law was then to be passed, because SDK, which was a serious institution, had one form called multilateral compensation, which served and was used in the 1990s and early two thousand years for such situations when general indifference is created, which is now in Serbia. Today we don't have SDK, we're passing this law that we were supposed to pass as soon as we abolished the SDK. I forgive you because in the beginning of two thousand, everyone, you and I believed that we were making some bright future, in which everything would be good and ideal, that we wouldn't need such laws. We believed, at least I did, and I assume you won't need the state to interfere between the two businessmen at all. We thought it was a relic of communism. We are passing this law today, I mean these days, and I have decided to speak in favour of this law because I am familiar with one of the probably 10-20 thousand examples that are currently happening in Serbia. Allow me two minutes to introduce you to the problem that made me talk about this. In Mladenovac, on the turn of turn right for Topola, a magnificent shopping mall was built. It was built by the Croatian firm "Rimac" from Split. Great facility, 12,000 square meters, completely issued full of tenants who pay 80,000 euros a month. The facility was built by the Croatian firm Zagorje techno concrete, and the subcontractors were traditionally Serbian firms.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6922	Mr. People's Parliament, please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6923	It's absolutely on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6924	You'll have to listen to me. I know it's an interesting story, but it's past the agenda. Now you're going to argue in principle. Sign up again and get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6925	The amendment I wanted to support was accepted, but that doesn't mean I'm losing my right to speak. I just want to support the fact that the amendment has been adopted. The fact I wanted to say is that someone takes, builds a mall, takes 960,000 euros a year, and two years later they don't pay the performers. If that's okay with you, I don't have a problem with that, but this law has the only problem, which is that it doesn't treat cases backwards. I understand that this is impossible, but tomorrow 200 workers to whom a million-and-a-half euros are due will come out and block the facility. So what do we do? Will the Croatian investor then come to the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Police, complaining that police are not beating enough Serbian frozen workers? This law serves to protect those 200 unfortunate people who will be frozen there tomorrow and who are said to be unable to get their money, at least without five years of court proceedings. Thanks to this law, this court case will not exist. If you think they should seek justice in The Hague, I don't think it's a good source, especially for Serbian builders. Mr. Dinkic, I'll vote for your law. It is good that you accepted the amendment, and I hope that the list of at least 10,000 cases will be resolved, because you know what Mr. Minister and Mr. Chairman is not a constitutional category that when you produce and sell, you can also charge. It's a civilization norm, and that's why it serves this law. That's why it's good that we bring it. Let's just finish this discussion, so I cut mine in half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6926	And I thank you, but I don't know what amendment it was that you discussed. National MP Bojana Krkic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6927	I have submitted three amendments to this bill. One concerns the title of the law, the other concerns Article 1 and the third concerns Article 4. It's a bill of law. I can discuss similarly as Mr. Grujic, because the good part of these amendments concerns public sector obligations and public sector commitments. We did not have in the procedure another law that would concern the performance of public sector obligations, I speak to all entities in society, according to all public sector creditors. We have this law regarding commercial transactions, and in that sense, I have tried, by changing the title of the law, Articles 1 and 4 to define in a certain way the way in which the public sector's obligations to all creditors are carried out, not just according to creditors in commercial transactions. In that sense, I am pleased if what is publicly publicized that all the obligations of the state will be settled within 45 days, I understand that a little wider so I count that everything the state owes, that the state will pay in 45 days, if that is true, makes me happy. In particular, I am referring to certain deadlines for paying all the commitments that have been made even by court decisions, because certain judicial decisions that have been carried out require certain executions of monetary obligations in relation to citizens' rights. The rights of citizens, or legal persons, but which require the execution of judgments and because of insufficient liquidity of the budget or because of something else, these executive judgments stand and are not charged exactly within 45 days. Those colleagues who do so can confirm, I'm not sure we've reached the point where all these judgments are carried out within 45 days. If these amendments challenge the attention and attention of all MPs in the National Assembly, if they challenge the attention of the ministry's representatives in terms of making efforts to achieve these commitments, practically executive commitments within certain deadlines, so let it be 45 days, no matter what the deadlines are shorter, I would be happy if this is possible in the next period. If I get the minister's claim that you will be executed by court judgment within 45 days, that moment I am prepared to withdraw all the three amendments I have made to this bill. In that sense, I expect the Minister's word. The Minister's word is enough for me, I don't need any other written document, nor do I need any legal obligation in the sense of the law that will be passed here. Anyway, whoever on behalf of the government has the right to take such a commitment and says it will be, or at least make sure he does it in 45 days, I'm ready to withdraw all three amendments right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6928	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Janko Veselinović and Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 12 by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections have not been made. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the corrections have not been made. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6929	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the original version of the amendment I have submitted, I have provided for a different range of penalties for delay in fulfilling financial transactions. This correction refers to the oversight I had on that occasion, since I did not have in mind the Law of Infringements. So, the amendment I filed with the correction refers to violations for natural persons who are bearers of agricultural land. Given the low incomes they make mainly, since these are mostly incomes that are, I say, family and not some big income, in this sense should not be taken the maximum amount of fines of 10,000 dinars, but 5,000. That is proposed by this amendment. The Law on Agricultural and Rural Development states that the holder of family agricultural land is a natural person of a farmer and entrepreneur who performs agricultural production and who is registered in the register of agricultural holdings as the holder of family agricultural land. I believe that if an equalised natural person is with an entrepreneur who deals with agriculture in this law, it should also be done when determining the minimum penalty for a natural person who owns a agricultural land. Simply, I think it would then be an adequate condition for our agriculture, especially in view of the drought that hit this year. I think that this law essentially has a good intention of obliging the state to fulfil its obligations within the time limit set out in the contract. On the other hand, the arbitration of the state between commercial companies is not good because we enter into their relations. I think that only the existence of a contract is enough, and in some ways it was necessary to strengthen the capacity of economic courts, and that could be resolved in that way. As far as punishment is concerned, I think it's another way for the state to charge a budget on the burden of the economy that is in a difficult situation. I'm afraid we'll have two effects of this law. On the one hand, we'll probably have a little better discipline, as far as the charge goes, that depends on the law itself. On the other hand, we'll probably have a lot of companies going into liquidation for this bill, because if some firm doesn't have the money to pay its obligations to the supplier, then there's no money to pay the fine. This will mean firing workers, liquidating the company and reducing the number of employees in this country, and that is certainly not in our best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6930	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Bauer. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for a TERRIBLE OBLIGATION OF CATEGORY AND MIROVANJ OF THE IRSTITUTION You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Janko Vesenović, Borislav Stefanović, Vladimir Ilic, Srdjan Miković, Olgica Batić, Radmila Gerov and Judita Popović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6931	I have tabled six amendments to the proposal for a law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, where most of the corrections or the maximum number of proposed corrections concern the date. What the law stipulates to be done with October 31st, 2012, is that it is practically a matter of standing still at 31st of December of the calendar year, because practically this law, when adopted, or when it comes into force, comes close to the end of the calendar year. In this regard, the proposal was made, by starting with the fact that it is easier to calculate, or technically easier to implement. In principle, on only the date, since it counts that by January 31st, all those who meet obligations are obliged to settle, i.e. practically January by the end of February, as it goes. It's all possible to do. However, I am taking the opportunity to try in those two minutes, as far as I have the right to one amendment, to say and to point out that only in one place and in the amendment to Article 2, it is two, as regards the use of the term, where I used a certain term in terms of the original incomes of local self-government. In that sense, I have given an amendment that does not concern these dates themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6932	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6933	I will explain why the Government did not accept the amendment on changing terms, because it would be morally irresponsible that, given that we set out to talk about this law in November of the month, if we moved the date for reconciliation of commitments at the end of November or New Year, then they would automatically discourage anyone from paying taxes in November or December. That's why we're strictly staying with October 31st as a date, and that's why we rejected the amendment. That was the only reason. I will take the opportunity to tell all those who are taxpayers, that as soon as this law is adopted in the Assembly, they should pay, those who have these debts, the ongoing obligation for November, the current obligation for December, and only then have they qualified to apply this law to them and then continue to pay regularly, since January, every month. Whoever doesn't pay the current obligation for November and December, it's as if this law doesn't apply to him. In other words, and he'll have time, because we assume he'll have half of December to do it all January. So, a month and a half will have time to pay November and December. The tax administration will, under official duty, raise blockades to all debtors who have debts on behalf of the tax. Whoever pays the commitment to November and December, no later than January 31st, will freeze off that basic tax debt, freeze interest and then get a condition that if he pays regularly, his interest will be permanently written off and the debt will later be paid off to the wars, as the law provides. So, the very important thing, the payment of current commitments for November and December is the condition of qualifications for freezing debt and tight interest and for small and medium-sized enterprises, large enterprises, for entrepreneurs and citizens, for all to which it applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6934	Thank you. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6935	I proposed to the first amendment, without correction, practically merely that what is mentioned in point 3 of the local tax issue, and local taxes are public revenues that determine, charge and control units of local self-government based on the Law, or decisions of their congregations, by the Law on the financing of local self-government knowing the precise original incomes of the unit of local self-government. In that sense, I suggested using that term. True, since I've changed certain things from dates by correcting them, I'm not sure, or I'm sure it's not even possible to accept that part in part, so half of the amendment. If I had received any indication that the term could be accepted in that section – the original incomes of the local self-government units, in that sense I would have corrected the amendment. Since it hasn't, the amendment has remained unchanged. We don't have to discuss the date, it's clear to the end. This is all about names now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6936	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Olgica Batic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6937	If the commitments for November and December are met by January 31st, I ask for an obligation from November, which was not paid on December 31st, but on January 31st, a late payment interest. As a result, it was proposed that Article 7 paragraph 5 "record interest" is replaced by the words "describes total interest" in order to be absolutely accurate, because this is about a taxpayer who on 31 October 2012, as an unmistakable liability had only interest, and this is about the issue of write-off interest at the end of October 31st. I'm asking for a November payment that was maybe a month late. In that sense, an amendment has been proposed. If we interpret that interest itself, the entire interest is written off, I'm satisfied with that, but at least we know what we're voting here? In that sense, the amendment was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6938	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted an amendment with an amendment, proposing that a new article 8a be added after article 8. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6939	A colleague, Janko Veselinovic, suggested that a new Article 8a be added after Article 8a, which I will read and whose title is – the right to benefit from the regular reconciliation of tax obligations and contributions to health insurance. This article reads - all taxpayers who, as of 31 October 2012, regularly paid tax liabilities and health insurance contributions, have the right to benefit in terms of the dinar cash amount of the same amount of the bank interest they would have as depositors at their commercial bank on the amount of money, as if they had been paid for a year, and the basis for the payment of the amount of the tax paid individually for each billed payment. The accounting period is from the date of payment of the tax liability and contributions to health insurance, ending on 31 October 2012. This law is generally good, and I think if this amendment is passed that we too will vote in favour of this law. The essence of this amendment is that those who regularly pay their tax obligations, and there are those in both legal and natural persons, in a way, will not be discredited, because their compliance with the law in the end has not been paid, because who knows which time, in some way, those who did not respect the law, or who did not pay their tax obligations within the time limit, are rewarded. That was also recognized by the minister as a flaw in this law and it was written in an explanation, but on the other hand, the positive provisions of this law have gone too far and I absolutely understand it. It is not disputed, but I think that in some way we should, I repeat, reward those who regularly settle their tax obligations, whether they are legal persons, whether they are natural persons, because in one case and another, they are subject to amendments. As for legal entities, those who regularly paid their tax obligations now get a privileged position in the sense that VAT is returned to them in 15 days instead of 45 days. I don't think it's a great cost to the state, and it would be a great incentive for those who regularly paid, that someone thinks of them, and that ultimately, in this country, respect for the law is worth it. For that reason, we think that these two amendments should be adopted and that the law would be good. Right away, to be fair by the end of 2008, the previous government proposed a similar law and it had no solution to this problem. Now we've found a solution. We hope it's acceptable for the Minister and the Government. Again, respect for the law in this country is worth it. In the end, I want to convey one of my experiences from the application of the previous law. I would draw attention to the minister where we had a problem and that the problem could be corrected in the next month and a half. We had the biggest problem because people came and said they didn't even know about the law. They say we didn't know. So I suggest that you carry out a good media campaign in the next period, that this information, that this law reaches every citizen, every legal person, and it would be best if the Tax Administration, I don't think it's a great cost, to send a letter to every taxpayer, or a letter to point out that a law like this has been passed, which is an advantage for those who settle their obligations for November and December. I think then the argument would have been that they didn't know was out of hand, because I know from experience that many were coming, so they asked for a delay in paying taxes on the grounds that they didn't know that such a law existed. I think the current is pretty short, because it's still New Year's and Christmas holidays and that right after the adoption of the tax code, the tax administration sends a letter to everyone. Then an excuse would fall if they didn't know there was such a law. So I say, if you can adopt these amendments to make DS vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6940	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6941	I agree with this last thing you said. Definitely as soon as the Assembly adopts this law we will try to reach out to every taxpayer and through the means of public information and through notifications. Is it possible now to notify the address of every taxpayer, there are many? Miodrag Djidic: And the private sector. There are a lot of them, too, because there are 300,000 entrepreneurs plus others. We'll see, but definitely in the means of public information, we'll publish relevant information about it. On the other hand, we will inform trade associations, businessmen, entrepreneurs through local tax administrations. It would be best for everyone to get that information in some way. By the way, as far as moral dilemma goes, what about the ones who paid regularly? You here are essentially predicting faster VAT returns, which is a correct proposal, and in the other case, we have a reduction in tax revenues, which is not possible to do because of the planned budget deficit reduction. We'll see. If we have liquidity, even without this amendment, we can speed up the return of VAT to those who have been correct, because the law has up to 45 days, and we can use a shorter period for vomiting. That's a good idea. I'm going to ask the IRS to get us lists of those who are regular, to get a liquidity injection this way, to get their VAT back faster than 45 days. On the other hand, they will benefit because it is a good part of their debtors, in fact companies that owe the state instead of paying taxes to the government for debts, these debts will be frozen and will only pay current liabilities and have more liquidity to settle their obligations to the debtors. I think it's a good thing you've made this proposal in the amendments. In any case, you've encouraged us to think at least apply this one thing in practice, and this other one costs and it's not possible to do financially.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6942	Thank you. On the title above the article 10th and on the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the exchange of foreign exchange laws. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 4th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with the correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with the correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Entrepreneurship. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Olgica Batić, Slobodan Jeremic, Momo Čolaković, Vesna Kovac, Ivan Jovanovic, Maja Vidinović, Borislav Stefanović, Teodora Vlahović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojšić, Karolj Čizik, Čedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Judita Popović, Nena Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Donka Banović, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejčić, Gorica Gajić, Dušica Morčević, Dejan Radenković, Radmila Gerov, Vesna Jovic, Borisačević and Srdjan Miković, as well as amendments that are based on Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The amendments, writtenly, were withdrawn: MP Ivan Jovanovic to Article 39, MP Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic to art. 6, 17, 27 and 26 and MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Radmila Gerov and Zoran Ostojić on Article 39. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, such as the Government's opinions on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hederevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6943	Dear Vice-President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP of this amendment has actually proposed that, at the very beginning of the text of the law in basic terms, it is defined as a forbidden kind of behavior that I am free to say, and was one of the key objections to the public, which, on the one hand, created a legitimate impression in the same public that public enterprises are very often used, as we usually say, for political or party purposes, that their resources, all of what is related to their work, are one kind of resources used in political struggle, and above all in election campaigns. The amendment said that the use of property, activity, name and visual identity of a public enterprise in all activities related to political parties and election campaigns, as well as any other abuse of public enterprises for political purposes, is prohibited. I don't think in this Parliament, nor in front of the public of Serbia, I have to particularly explain what kind of abuses of resources, activities, successes, public enterprises, were faced, not only in the last election campaign, but in practically different ways in the last slightly more than 20 years, how much a multi-party system exists in Serbia. It is known to all that public enterprises suddenly live in the months before the election, especially in those weeks and months related to the election campaign itself. This behaviour, usually by the authorities, which, through the administration of public enterprises, either order such activities or especially intensify them before the elections, did not only harm these companies, on the other hand, and Serbia's budget, the budgets of local self-government, but also greatly disabling the political process itself in Serbia. Thank you to the government for accepting this amendment. We hope that after the adoption of this amendment, more television news, electoral videos and everything we watch on television otherwise, and especially in election campaigns, it will not begin, on the one hand, major economic successes, where the president of the state, the Prime Minister, ministers, each in his own domain, each in that area where public enterprises and the public sector are controlled in some way, cutting off the tape, the 14th time opening of the same construction site or the same production plant, and then after that we have an election block where the parties are allegedly competing in their political ideas or political programmes that they bring to citizens. Of course, we expect that this provision does not remain a dead letter on paper, as it is usually said, but rather treated as a violation of the law and that those who eventually in the future convert Serbia, municipalities, cities, provinces, central levels into mass construction sites or festivals in which economic success is declared, if they do so to be sanctioned in an appropriate manner. Those who run public enterprises on shifts or other forms of punishment, and politicians, who eventually reach for those measures, legal sanctions and, of course, political sanctions, as is common in democratic society. I hope there won't be so many red ribbons anymore, that there won't be any practical vote purchases, which so far has been done in this way and that much will be taken into account how public enterprises are advertised. There is another amendment that we have submitted, which practically prohibits advertising on the commercial grounds of state monopolies on the market, but I think that this change that we have introduced in Article 1 will also enable a ban, i.e. preventing some other types of abuse through various advertising, sponsorship, the organisation of concerts, travel for journalists across the country and abroad and in any other way. So, all that the central government, local authorities, local and central public enterprises are doing now, thus extracting money from the public sector and breaking to a good degree what are binding standards of the Law on the financing of political parties, as it was also another major problem. Therefore, the parties in power were usually at the disposal of those resources that the opposition parties did not have, which were not shown through campaign financing reports or reports on the financing of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6944	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Sasa Milenić, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6945	Just as LDP MPs, who have submitted this amendment, the URS parliamentary group feels the need to welcome and thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for accepting these amendments that undoubtedly represent an improvement in the legal text. Especially since the Law on Public Enterprises, which treats the public interest in that part of the public-owned economy, also represents the fulfillment of the pre-election promise and the implementation of the principle of public sector department. It is also an interest of the parliamentary group of the URS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6946	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Slobodan Jeremic and Momo Colakovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 2, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposer adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6947	I would just like to thank all present members of the committee and representatives of the parties who participated in the work of this committee in general, because this law has caused a great public interest. I must also express my regret that DS representatives have not attended this constructive debate, because it has proved in the Committee's work that, thanks to the understanding of Minister Dinkic and members of the board, many proposals have been adopted and many proposals show that we can also create this law together in the spirit of creating a better economic environment, and in line with the consolidation of public finances. The proposal for an amendment adopted by the Committee here as a proposal for a committee is set out in Article 2(1). The proposal for a law on public enterprises, after which it is said: "the release of the official message of the Republic of Serbia" is deleted. The Committee's position was to establish such a way of informing, in terms of the establishment of public companies in the field of information, the state opens up too much of an opportunity to influence, or regulate, in this area, which is contrary to existing laws. First of all, many of the professional institutions are the country's proposed amendments, which is why the promoter on behalf of the promoter, i.e. the Government, adopted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6948	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6949	I'm sorry that my colleague is sorry that we haven't been to the Committee's session, but I still have to tell you that there's often a bond here in the National Assembly and we don't have the opportunity every time to come and explain something if we've given it up as an amendment. Secondly, I am not sure that each of the applicants of the amendment has been reported in accordance with the obligations of the Rules of Procedure on the holding of a session of the Committee, so that he can further explain his amendment at the Committee's session. True, I tried, no matter what I was not a member of the Finance Committee, to attend the meetings of the Finance Committee when I was able to explain my amendments. True, these amendments have passed. But I also have to say that in these weather conditions where today's session of the National Assembly is held, where we see that in the hall, just to count ourselves here as many of us, we see how many or how many MPs there are in the session, just so they can get to the house while the weather conditions are still what they are and that they can go back in the morning, to keep working. The fact is that the work of the National Assembly is extended and after 1800 hours, we don't know how far. It's no problem for me from Panchev to get in the car and go to Panchev's, really, I stopped by the car this afternoon to clean the car, so that when the session's over, I could get in that car. But let's think about whether it is appropriate for all those who live far from Belgrade, from Panchev, from the surroundings of Belgrade, is it okay to even interrupt today's session and continue it tomorrow? (President: Mr. Mikovic, I realize this is a replica? If it's a replica... I said it was about the amendments and I'm happy about the amendments, no problem, and if you're interpreting it as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6950	Mr. Mikovic, it's clear to everyone that it was a replica. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6951	It's only for the citizens of Serbia. So, the board was scheduled Thursday at 2:30 p.m. and then there was the sun, Mr. Mikovic, at 1 p.m. Under two, the DS has three board members and none of them showed up. Representatives of SVMs who are not members of this committee have come because they wanted to contribute to a more high-quality adoption of public enterprises laws with their constructive attitude. This was about how sorry I was that you weren't there, and your exposure made it clear to us why you didn't have any interest in participating in this work at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6952	I'll give you a replica, just one little comment. Please don't let us discuss the work of individual committees here, whether or not someone has come or not, that's his right. As far as he understands his obligation, that's another thing. You have your word, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6953	It's a business thing. Each applicant shall have the right to be informed of the session of the committee under discussion of the amendment. On the proposal for a law on public undertakings, I have submitted amendments and I am not personally informed of this as the Committee members have been informed of this when the Committee is sitting. I claim that this is not the practice of notifying each individual amendment promoter, but it does say in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if I am not already particularly informed of the Committee’s session, when it will be, regardless of certain other obligations at that time, do not be resentful whether someone has come or not. It's the right of every MP to come or not to come, but again I say, I who wanted to use that right, I was not informed. Every time I get to see when there's going to be a board meeting where I'm not a member, and where I have amendments in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6954	The word is made by the MP Ivan Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6955	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. As a member of the Committee on Economics and Regional Development, I have had a meeting with me, so it's been called in since December 10th, since last night. We got information last night that we have a session at half past ten this morning. I remind you there was a blizzard this morning. I arrived at the National Assembly at 11:00. What kind of quality debate did you organise between half 10 and 10, I really don't know, since I didn't attend? I'm not sure anything of quality can be done within that time frame, but simply, this clearly shows how SNS is trying to disabling the public of Serbia, that it is all accused of DS, but I'm afraid you won't succeed just because Serbian citizens see the consequences of your decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6956	Bojan Djuric by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6957	By amendment or by the Rules of Procedure, as you wish. Please, if we can move on to a debate on laws and amendments. I think at the very beginning you missed the intervention. So, here we're talking parallelly about the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the meetings of the Committee on Finance, the session of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which was scheduled for this morning, and that's true, because of an amendment. On the other hand, there is talk of a session held, if I am not mistaken, on Thursday afternoon and where the amendments of the Committee and amendments of different parliamentary groups were actually discussed. I think if we've finished this debate, at some point we can move on to the amendments. I understand the ambition of SNS and DS to practically capitalise on every issue their relationships or possibly their own misunderstandings, but I think this is a pretty good example of a law where there's been a lot of work and where some amendments have been seriously considered, adopted, some fortunately, some of them, and we'll see it in the future. But let's get back to that debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6958	Mr. Djuric, I ask you to be honest with me in the future and say that you will replicate. Therefore, I have tolerated you, I have warned you, and I ask you to be honest because I have no reason not to give you a word for the replica. Because now you have no basis, no basis. You're answering the Rules of Procedure now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6959	So I don't understand what your ambition is to cause the incident from nothing? So, I wasn't looking for a replica, and by the way, I don't think I had a basis for looking for a replica. If you're counting my time as a replica, then you're extending the work of this assembly since it's extra time. I said I wanted to talk about the amendment, I spent a minute of my time, and you're finally unsatisfactory. I really don't see what's causing your dissatisfaction?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6960	If you don't see it, I see it. So don't spare any time for that. In two minutes, we won't be god knows what to lose. But I want us to be correct -- if it's a replica, then it's a replica, if it's a discussion about an amendment, then it's a discussion. It's all about that and nothing else. We move on, you and I won't argue or get points. The People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Oleg Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 6 was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6961	If this is an amendment to the Committee, it was, in fact, a compromise solution based on the idea of introducing a specific position that is that public undertakings which do not have competition in the market for basic activities which are established cannot be advertised on commercial grounds without the consent of the founders. The idea was to introduce some kind of control for this part that applied to advertising in terms of, say, public enterprises dealing exclusively with certain activity in the NIS capital market, EPS, JAT. So we were practically all in agreement, but it was just a matter of formulating how the core committee would do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6962	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6963	I would like as a legislator to thank the LDP for this amendment, because it is a fundamental amendment to the LDP that we have only been doing a little bit, as well as many others that we have accepted. Indeed, our government wants everything good to be built into laws, no matter who the promoter is. Here, this is really something that's well noticed, that public enterprises are advertised, even though they don't have competition. You suggested that it be banned now, we accepted it, of course we also have the consent of the founder, if it is a matter of informing citizens, so I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6964	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment with the correction, the MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Donka Banović and Milan Lapčević together submitted. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 11, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6965	In Article 11, there is a view that the Committee considered it necessary to delete it, first of all because this member is bound somewhere by a local self-government to have, for example, a one-cameral regulation of a public undertaking, or a management system, so this amendment wanted to achieve that the Government would, otherwise, establish by means of its act the criteria and criteria on which all public undertakings, republican, regional, local, will be classified as single-domestic or two-domestic groups. So, this attitude in Article 11, there's no need to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6966	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, the MPs Alexander Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik together submitted. The Government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6967	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, in Article 12 of this Law, the number of members of the Supervisory Board is being determined closer, and in paragraph 2, the board of directors of a public undertaking, whose founder is a local self-government or autonomous province, is said to have three members. Our amendment is in this direction that in Article 12, the words "three members", change in the words "there are three to five members in line with the decision of the founder". In fact, we believe that the supervisory board, when it comes to local public enterprises and local businesses in this autonomous province, should have at least five members closer, if we say three to five, because everything that is normally in their jurisdiction in Article 18, which contains 14 points, where the directors are also overseeing the work, internal controls on the business of a public undertaking, means I draw only some points, name the executive directors of a public enterprise, etc. In Article 16, where it is clearly stated which conditions the Supervisory Board should meet, and among other things that it has acquired a higher education, that for at least three years with experience in the position of a legal person, it has a basic expertise in the area of finance, etc. Simply, in small local areas, there are not enough professional people, and in particular one of these three, as the law predicted, will be from the ranks of employees. You know what? Highly educated and highly skilled people in local public enterprises are mostly directors or executive directors. If we could put them, which is absolutely impossible, they're the only ones that we can put on the board of directors under this Article 16, so we suggest that these public enterprises also increase to five at local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6968	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6969	The government has rejected this amendment because we want to rationalise the number of members of the supervisory board at the local level, given that there are about 650 local, public enterprises, with three members of the supervisory board, that is 1,950 people, who will be engaged throughout Serbia in these positions. If that were five, that would be 3,250 people. So 1,300 people more. If you take a minimum fee of 30,000 a month for a member of the board of directors, this way is saved annually in a bar half a billion dinars. There is no small savings at all, and there is no need for local utility companies to have so many members of the Supervisory Board for reasons of rationalisation. We deliberately insisted on reducing that number to three. As far as the Republic is concerned, it is five, but the Republic has far fewer public enterprises, i.e. large ones have much more responsibility, covering all of Serbia. For reasons of rationalization, savings, we have limited that number to three, so we have not accepted your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6970	Thank you. The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6971	Just for a little while. Mr. Minister, you know that so far these local public companies have had boards of directors, and five board members, three board members, that was eight people. I don't know in other local self-government whether boards and boards were paid everywhere, I don't think so, so in my local government, the Svilionac was paid, but these were relatively small fees, they weren't 30,000 dinars. Of course, by erasing the boards of directors in this way, and by setting up only supervisory committees, I don't think we should be looking at how much we're going to save, and how much we're going to lose on the quality of those people who are supposed to be sitting on boards. After all, on the section that the Supervisory Board should cover, that we do not spare the quality of management that should be both professional and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6972	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6973	I am reporting for reasons why the proposed amendment corrects, except with rationality, i.e. from the aspect of savings and rationality, i.e. the reduction of the number of members of the Supervisory Board, and from the point of view of changing the organisational structure of the Supervisory Board itself. In particular, this proposal also provides for one of the members of the supervisory board at the local level to be a member who is also a member of a permanent conference of municipalities and cities. In this situation, with the increase of the number of members from three to five, only one member who guarantees independence in some way, which represents a guarantee of independence of the board itself, without the influence of the parties, without the influence of the political parties, would be even lonely, which means that in this situation it means that someone else would have to be represented from that aspect of the guarantee of the lack of influence, neither the parties nor anything else that could leave certain doubts about the independence of the supervisory board. I therefore believe that this aspect of rationality, as well as this aspect that I have presented, is sufficient reason to really remain only three members of the Supervisory Board. Thank you. President: thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6974	We just heard from the minister that the new supervisory board will have three members at the local level, on the republican five, and then we started counting a figure of 30,000 dinars, which will obviously fill party personnel with frozen statuses. Today, we had the honor of seeing in the media what kind of personnel would freeze their statuses. Among other things, we saw Costa Todorovic, who wrote to himself that he was a doctor of master science, whatever that means. We could see in their biographies great expertise for tomorrow's boards where it still exists, on the boards of directors. I guess the frames, like one who wrote that he had sports activities mostly recreational, then that they made mistakes like knowing the general knowledge of the computer, but also many other things, where they were proud of having spent the entire working life in the BIA and many other things that involve spraying fruit and other things, like roasting brandy. Mostly biographies are full of it, and that's something that's the personnel of the new government. Whether it'll be good enough and professional enough that in the number of three or five, it doesn't matter if the frames are still quite the opposite of what you, Mr. Minister, were talking about in your campaign, exclusively party personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6975	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6976	As resolute minister, I am in charge of proposing a system law and we have proposed it to this assembly. It has significantly improved the professionalisation of governance in public enterprises, and thanks to amendments submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, Olgica Batic, as well as the Assembly Committee on Business. This law is now really significantly better than the current one. For the Republic public undertakings, boards of directors are abolished and supervisory boards are introduced with a maximum of five members, one of which is independent, cannot be a member of the political party, and one comes from the ranks of employees from the public enterprise. In other words, the state can also delegate to the republican public enterprises only three members. By accepting the LDP amendment, to appoint the Serbian Assembly in the Commission, which assesses the two-thirds majority of the Committee on the Economy of one representative, the public's insight into the process at least is ensured in addition to the amendments that the founder's website must be published at the end of who was elected and who were the best-ranked candidates. The public has been provided in the work. If what you said happens first, it won't be possible, because the criteria for the election are now improved and from the moment this law is passed, all new supervisory committees will first have to choose. First, all new supervisory committees will have to be selected completely. We even put a deadline on Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic's proposal. The deadline will be until June 30th next year. Everything changes completely, and even those people you mention, who I really don't know who they are, but I guess the media that brought it up is not gonna be able to meet these criteria to be members of these monitoring committees. In other words, the current situation is such that anyone can justifiably make fun of it. That's why I wanted as a representative of the party that advocated the professionalisation of governance in the entire public sector, to make this step. It seems to me that some MPs have helped us a lot. I thank them again. I'm sure it won't be perfect, but we've improved a lot of things, regulated them. Perhaps some new assembly in some new mandate will complete it as well as the local level, because I think now we've regulated a republican level maybe 95% of what I wanted and promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6977	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6978	A brief comment on the amendment of a colleague from the DSS. A number of reasons have already been mentioned why it is good for the supervisory boards of local public enterprises to have three members. We had a case in the previous period that despite the significant number of people on boards, in particular in the city from which the number of members came was nine, the number of members of the Supervisory Board was five, so 14 people cared about business policy and took care of the legal work of public enterprises. On the other hand, we have the fact and the results are clear how public enterprises were doing. That's exactly why this law is being passed. We think it's enough to make them three members. The work of that committee will be more effective automatically. These conditions are intended to be met by these members in support of the fact that these people are trained to do the job. On the other hand, we have that moment of savings. I'll just give you a few specific examples. Of course, I support the operation of the DRI in these days, in addition to the republican public enterprises, agencies and other republican institutions, it also controls local public enterprises. Do you know what's going on? In the reports we receive here in the Assembly, you see a series of failures in the work of local public enterprises for which no board of directors or supervisory board has ever made any remarks. Reports on the work of public enterprises per difolt have been adopted for years. The boards of directors and supervisors shall neither lead business policy nor the Supervisory Board shall worry about legality. That is why I believe that the number of three members of the Supervisory Board of Experts with far greater responsibility than before is one good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6979	Thank you. National MP Zoran Babic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6980	Thank you. I'm advertising the breach of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. In the first sentence, I will say that I agree with Mr. Djuric, that we should return to the agenda point and talk about amendments to the proposed law, but I see that dear fellow quoted some newspaper articles about some people who may have run for certain places, but there will be no such place. If we're going to talk about reality, if we're going to talk about life in newspaper articles, let's talk a little bit about "Bus-plus kicks passengers to a minus"... (President: Please, Mr. Granny, give an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... "Belgrade on the edge of collapse", "Belgrade in Economic Duboise". It's all done by frames and all by DS personnel, and that's why I don't want to mix up grandmothers and frogs, and I don't want to mix up some things that might happen, and I guarantee you it won't happen, with all this stuff that people who have been delegated to DS have the right to decide about certain things in the city of Belgrade. I absolutely agree with the government who has not accepted this amendment. Three members of the Supervisory Board are quite enough. I also agree with all the savings and with the rationalisation that is the politics and government of the Republic of Serbia, which it implements and rejects this amendment, because we cannot be hypocritical. We can't say on the one hand this law isn't enough to step into the department...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6981	Mr. Granny, I have to interrupt. I ask the Members of Parliament to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if they report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure to say which member is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to explain. National MP Dusan Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6982	Thank you. This is about people like Kosta Todorovic and some other names, Milan Nikolic painters, and then people who put in their biography that prominent SNS members since their founding in 2008, and that they participated in the destruction of the former regime. They may not be, as you said, I suppose since the media discovered them, and I can see that Minister Dinkic is not thrilled with your staff solutions, but some of your personnel solutions have passed you. Tell me, what about the man who's director of the Colubare? Is it true what his work résumé is? What about the ballerinas? What do they advise today?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6983	Mr. Obradich, since you've moved on, I'm going to have to interrupt you. Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6984	I picked up the line. Mr. Babic specifically mentioned me. I think he misread my words deeply. In fact, at first he welcomed my call to parliament to return to the agenda, and then until the end of his presentation he was actually doing what I was protesting and talking about things that were not on the agenda again trying to profit from the conflict. I hope you'll be able to withstand that kind of pressure, and you'll be in charge of the session, and you'll be able to get into normal flows. One more thing, Mr. Jovanovic made a serious material mistake when explaining the SPS position, which is why they cannot have five members, and should have three members of the supervisory board. You said that a member of the Supervisory Board under this law should be a person who is a representative of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. That's not true, the law doesn't predict it. One member of a commission formed by a local self-government unit comes from the SKGO or is due to come to the supervisory board, there is no such thing. How would you say that encollages with the reality of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6985	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nejo Jovanovic, by the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6986	I accept that the composition of the commission is such that it implies that there is also a permanent member of the Council of the Conference of Cities. However, what no one here can doubt is the fact that at one of the previous sessions, we have highlighted a serious remark that did not contain something in the law that was applied and applied in practice. It is that more municipalities form, i.e. form a public enterprise. In particular, in the territory of the Zlatibor district, the three municipalities formed an enterprise called the "Depponia Deep" and the name itself already indicates the main activity, i.e. the functioning of the company. Similar in Vranj and in Vranja territory. We have one problem with more situations where public enterprises appear, and where the founders of these same enterprises are more municipalities, they now remain unprotected, to say by this law, that is, the provisions of this law do not define such a status of public enterprises. We also have a problem with the involvement of inopartners, i.e. foreign companies, which can also be organised as companies and which, in the spirit of this law, can carry out a work that is related to the activity of the public enterprise. Therefore, one of these Corpses, so I call it from the provisions of this law, has lost practical application to what already exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6987	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6988	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I have reported to Mr Jovanovic before, but apparently when I advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure, it does not deserve the same attention when it is advertised by some who appear to be in charge of advertising the Rules of Procedure. I'm advocating Article 104, that's the right to replication. If, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, an MP, who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, is offended by his or her name or function, or misreads his or her presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group or a political party whose MPs do not belong to that parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Article 1(1). I agree that the President of the National Assembly decides, but you can't decide one day that there is no replication to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that the other day you allow it. So you have to have the same Rules of Procedure, if it's the same for us, then it has to be the same for the opposition. I ask the opposition to be slightly favored, to be positively discriminated against, but which is a lot, it's a lot. I followed. This isn't the first time. As part of the parliamentary group, I presented this, Mr Babic knows, I have already complained to the president and I have sent such a letter that the right to replication and the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure is being misused by the opposition, that it grows to an additional time, which they did not receive as a parliamentary group. A team before, I think the injury is bigger, which is the Rules of Procedure, which is really rigid, we didn't bring them. So, since they brought him in, they should respect him. For days, however, we have been watching one Rules of Procedure apply to us, and the other is to the opposition. That's why I'm asking for this injury to be declared in the voting day, and of course I'm going to vote for this time hurting the Rules of Procedure, because this is the one I don't know which time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6989	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I expected you to let me explain why it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but if you insist on voting day, it will be voted on injure the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6990	I am not as psychic as some colleagues, and I cannot assess what Minister Dinkic thought and any of the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, when they decided not to accept this amendment in question. On behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I confirm that they have made a good decision, because the intensity of increasing the number of members of the governing body is to the greatest extent an expression of the need for political parties to increase the capacity to settle their personal, human needs and opportunities. Since the URS sees in the draft of this law, I repeat the decision-making act in the departmentalisation of the public sector in the spirit of this intensity, it is also that the proposed number of members of the Supervisory Board does not increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6991	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Popovici and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6992	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Dinkic, the government's representatives, when there was a debate in principle, you said this was the beginning of the department. However, some political options from the ruling majority have effectively denied you, and if they are kneeling in an election campaign, they will also affect the departisation of public enterprises when they arrive at power. I'm afraid this law will not come to life for those reasons in practice. The moment the cake was split, many parties retarded from their promises. But let's go back to our amendment. Since this Law on Public Enterprises envisioned the abolition of the Management Boards and the introduction of a new body, these are supervisory committees that have much more powers than the Management Board, for the sake of ease of functioning, we proposed that the founder, either the republic, the province or local self-government, select a deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board by a special act. I expect you to change your mind, Mr. Minister, and accept this amendment. The amendment is pragmatic and tries in a constructive way to, above all, enable the successful work of the Supervisory Board and thus enable all officials to work in a public enterprise. Since the legislator is rigid in the matter of transferring powers to the director or to another company worker, the Supervisory Board will have to decide on some important matters on its own, and it may happen that the chairman of the Supervisory Board will schedule a session of the Supervisory Board, here is an opportunity for the deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board to do so. So we ask you to accept this amendment, because in this way, the founder, above all thinking about the Republic, the province and local self-government, allows the deputy supervisory arm to enable the company to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6993	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Donka Banović, Gorica Gajic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6994	Thank you. Before I begin to elaborate the amendments, I'd like to read about it for the public. In Article 16 paragraph 1 point 4), the words "at least three years" change with the words "at least one year", and the words "or six years" change with the words "or two years". Our idea was to make it possible, first of all, in small areas, where there are more emigrations, more migration, fewer intellectuals, especially those people who have been in certain positions in public enterprises, let them get to work as soon as possible, so that they don't move out of this place for a future period because of such a rigid law. So the idea was well-intentioned, that people living in small areas get to work as soon as possible. That's the essence of the amendment. I hope you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6995	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 16, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6996	Thank you. In Article 16(4) of the Law proposal, the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the members were required to meet certain conditions. On the basis of point 4), these conditions were earlier to have three years of experience in the position and plus a part relating to six years of working experience in the management position for the activities carried out by the company, so that, under point 5, they should also possess certain basic expertise in this area. The draft law, which says point 4), should stand for at least three years of experience in the management position, and under point 5), the basic part relating to the experience in the area of finance and corporate governance is being held. Why is such a proposal for adoption? Because the Committee believes that the purpose of this law is to achieve a high degree of professionalisation and expertise in the area of finance, that it is not enough just to have a basic education from these areas of corporate governance and that, above all, we want to achieve this high degree of professionalisation, on the one hand. On the other hand, this part of which we do not want to condition that a large number of people in charge should be members of the Supervisory Board exclusively for the area and for this public enterprise, for the simple reason that we have, after very high criteria, both for the selection of directors, Director-General and for the selection of executive directors. That's why this is the way this lawman is defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6997	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6998	In a fundamental sense or politically, the fate of this amendment, the LDP, was half-way through. What we asked for in the first part of the amendment, to delete the word "basic" expertise required by a future member of the Supervisory Board in the field of law, finance, economy or corporate governance has been accepted through some other amendments. However, the ruling majority refused to accept an amendment that essentially says that a member of the public firm's supervisory board cannot be a member of a political party. I don't think I have to explain the motives for which the ruling majority did. We see it in public these days, from the same kind of behavior. It's a little bit of a talk here, too. So, people who are applying all over Serbia right now, I guess there are also in the public enterprises of the republican level, from somewhere, feel the need to emphasize in their biographies since they were party members, that they participated in all party activities. A biography from Nis, I think. I absolutely don't know what stage it's in, or what coalition arrangements they're in. She's even talking about being involved in all the opposition activities of the SNS. Let me put it this way. I don't think that's exactly the kind of phenomenon that this party has to do with. I think it is a situation in many, not to say in all political parties in Serbia. That's why we thought it was important that this member or the adoption of this amendment specifically forbidd something like that. The reason that came from the government is that the Supervisory Board is practically performing a supervisory function, a supervisory role on behalf of the founders of the state, a unit of local self-government and that it is normal for political parties that form the ruling coalition, which are responsible for the work of the company, to do so through persons who are their members. But I think that function can be perfectly normal through some experts who don't necessarily have to be members of the political party. How, as a rule, many more who are members of the party and have either no qualifications or have very suspicious qualifications or those who have the most often deny the technique and literacy of the CV, or the biography they submit, are not selected by others. We have in this country some far more responsible bodies, bodies that exercise much more serious control, so they are not members of political parties or are explicitly forbidden by law to be members of political parties. From the supervisory bodies, let's say, the monetary authorities of the National Bank, to the post of police director who should not be a member, or a political party official, by law. Why does it not matter to the state that it has direct control and that it can control it, unless it does so in another way by coordinating the security services, and it is important to it that it has this kind of political control or party control to the smallest enterprise in Serbia? This isn't a theoretical question and a theoretical consideration. Almost an example of every company in Serbia will show you that we were right when we submitted this amendment. Always one of the parties of the ruling coalition or of today's opposition, which was part of the ruling coalition, will talk about how she was personally prepared to give up that principle, but that others were not ready. Not to remind you, for example. to the Belgrade Airport Management or Supervisory Board, where, according to the quota, members of those bodies were people who had absolutely nothing to do with airports or planes. No offense, I don't think it's in itself anything bad, but I don't think some of them have an excessive flight experience as passengers. I'm not sure these people can effectively decide on behalf of the state, or control the use of serious resources and assess whether a particular company works, and the companies are 700, and the board members are several thousand. Of course, the government has given an explanation that one member is independent, so that's enough. This is not a country of such legal, economic, political culture that whoever in the Supervisory Board has the authority to be an unquestionable expert and that he is not a member of the political party over the votes, the views, the orders they receive from their party, local or republican, those members who are members of the political parties. What's this man's real position on the board of directors? What's his power? What is his motivation to fight the windmills, to resent everyone, to be in some way an alarmer or a whistler, as is usually said? We have these days submitted a bill on alarming rights, precisely because we have this situation that people who are inside, who are either in a system that is either unpartial or not directly interested, when they point to some corruption or some abuse, to be protected. At that level, we still do not have protection, and the government says an independent member of the Supervisory Board will remove, correct, there will be a guarantee that there will be no political or any other abuses in the work of supervisory committees, and thus public enterprises. That is why the very serious flaw and the ruling majority and government is that this amendment has not been accepted. Hundreds of examples will be found in the coming months and then all of what we've done here in the past ten days on this bill will be thrown under the feet or into the water, as in the previous period, such as yesterday's story opened in a daily newspaper. In the end, Mr. Babico, it won't matter how many will be selected and whether they will be selected. It's an impression that's being created, and I'm sure you and I will agree that that impression is unfavourable and that it hurts everyone. This argument I'm talking to today was an argument... (Marko Atlagic, from the place: No direct address. Well, it's not even allowed to interfere with another speaker. So that was the argument with which you attacked the previous government. Why are you repeating an absolute mistake now? You can always say that you point out some positive examples of the engagement of those people who are experts undoubtedly or who are not members of political parties. But in a country that is so electric and has so much negative experience, it will always draw more attention to the public and to those mistakes that are related to the appointment of those persons who do not have any qualifications, or who need to point out that they are longtime workers or co-workers of the State Security Service, i.e. BIA and have participated in political protests for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u6999	Thank you. Zoran Babic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7000	I thank my colleague Gjuric for this opportunity, for his right to the replica. There is absolutely no continuity, no attempt at continuity with previous authority for several reasons. First, because I can accept that tomorrow and in some future period, we may be talking about the responsibilities of the people we've been running for certain positions, whether in supervisory committees or in certain management posts, but to talk about them, we can't talk about them right now, because they've filed some CVs, or because, in some period of time, fighting for existence, they've been doing an honest job as a caterer. Let's talk about Article 38 of this Act, or Article 39, which states in point 1) – the authority responsible for the appointment of a director of a public undertaking may authorise the Director before the end of the period to which he is appointed, unless he implements the annual business programme. This Law on Public Enterprises defines transitional times. We won't wait four years, we won't wait for the end of the term, we won't wait for those public enterprises to be ruined to answer. No, in a year we'll see what they've done, how they've done, and whether they've done well, and if they get a staff stick to continue for another year. Is that how it's been so far and if we've had that experience so far, we don't have any. Did anyone in Serbia answer from the directors of public enterprises? No, it's not. Are they ruined, devastated, in debt? They did. That's why I can't accept the fact that they're talking about certain people, only that they've submitted and they've submitted some CV, and they won't be in any responsible place, not with such a reputation. Nor can I accept the fact that someone can't be the director of a public firm because they have three marriages, but it's certainly the people who haven't sinned about the law, who haven't ruined any businesses... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And I can and I want to talk, and I'm sure I'll talk about these people running for SNS, with great honor, after a year and at the end of the term, because I'm sure we've run for the best of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7001	Minister Dinkic, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7002	I'd like to explain to you why we rejected this amendment to Article 16 of the LDP. As you know, we accepted, I mean, more than two-thirds of your amendments, because we thought they were good. However, we think that this amendment that you have now specifically discussed is unreal, inapplicable in any country and unnecessary. Why? Because the Supervisory Board doesn't run public enterprises. The idea of the Law on Public Enterprises is that the state should withdraw from the management function into the control function, i.e. supervision. It is the state that appoints three members of the Supervisory Board in the Republic public enterprises. One is an independent member, who is not a member of the political party and is the fifth member of the staff. These three, absolutely no need to limit that they cannot be members of the political party, because they will not manage the company, they will control the work. The Government, in the case of the Republic, or an authority in the case of local self-government, has the right because it owns the company, to appoint someone who meets the conditions of expertise, whether he is a member of a party or not. That's what's left for the government. In all countries, we don't need to exaggerate, so in Germany, when you have a public enterprise, you can put in a control role, in a supervisory board and a man who is a member of a political party and who is a professional. So professionalism is important, and membership is not for control. For managing, you're right. This is what we wanted to do is that the director of a public enterprise must not be a party official, i.e. to form, in fact, an executive board, so as to share responsibility and improve quality. In other words, it is only necessary to separate the management of companies, which is done by the Director, or the Executive Board, from the control of what the state is doing. In that sense, it is the only reason why we have rejected this amendment. We do not feel that it is necessary to discriminate against members of political parties to play a control role, if the Government appoints them, or if the local self-government authority appoints them, because it is the function of the state, to control the work of public enterprises. If a public company can privatise itself and operate more efficiently in a market environment, then the state is fully withdrawn from there, and if the state needs to retain a public enterprise, then it certainly has the right to delegate a professional person who it considers will control the business's work on behalf of the State. That face won't make day-to-day decisions. It will only control whether the professional administration is doing its job well and signalling the Government, i.e. the founder whether it is doing well or not. You said it yourself, it'll be an alarm. It's his role. That's why we think your amendment is too much. Everyone else, I think, is correct, is good. That's why we accepted them. This one's really too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7003	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr Đurić as a right to replication, I will read the order which the MPs will receive the word - Sasa Milenić, Vladimir Ilic, Aleksandar Radojevic, Marijan Risticevic and Ivan Andric. MP Bojan Đuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7004	I understand basically your argument, Mr. Dinkic, but on the one hand you forbid the state to perform this supervisory function through its most prominent officials. Is that right, with a whole series of provisions prohibiting membership in the supervisory committees of political officials? On the other hand, you allow ordinary party membership as permitted, and I guarantee you that it will most often be the most important criterion when selecting members of the Supervisory Board. Secondly, I'm not sure this is in line with the best European practice, as you say. First, Serbia cannot compare with Germany in terms of functioning of the state sector or public enterprises almost nothing at all. Our experiences are completely different. The scope of the state and public sectors is different. The German economy and the German economy are different and we are not going into it now, but you have an interesting example of Croatia. So, the question of membership, or who could be a member of the Ine Supervisory Board, Ine Mol, as the name of the company, on the Croatian side, remember how much trouble Croatia had because it had ambition for Finance Minister Linic and then the first vice-president of the government, Minister of Economy Cacic to be representatives of the Croatian state in the supervisory committee. That is why, although this is the case, we will probably agree, this issue of so much national importance that it is difficult to attack the thesis that so important ministers can, therefore, also members of officials, one of them was the party president, that on behalf of the Croatian state, or Croatian parties, control the business. The pressure of the EU, or the European Commission in the accession process, was terrible to give up such a thing. This shows you what is the basic direction of European legislation, i.e. European political and business practices in this case, but not to raise the issue further. Mr. Babico, I'm not sure any of the directors have ever answered. (President: Please, time is up.) Do not address the MP directly. All right. I'm not sure Mr. Babic is right. First, he was talking about directors, and I was talking about a member who regulates the issue of supervisory committees, but I'm not sure they never answered, even if they didn't initiate proceedings against the director of public enterprises. Here, at this point, I remembered the questions of former director of the Road of Serbia, Mr. Jocic or Mr. Sarancic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7005	Time, Mr. Turkey. I turned off the microphone. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7006	Unlike the promoters, I thank the government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the parliamentary group, on this occasion, for accepting the LDP proposal exactly to the extent and part that contributes to the promotion of the legal text. So it is undeniable that where this amendment affirms, strengthens the position of expertise, it improves the legal text. Unlike the promoters, I have to express my misunderstandings in order to make a meaningful and productive second part of the amendment at all. Namely, if the legislator requires that one who accepts public functions should not be a member of any political party, and who could in any way establish that, verify the qualification condition. The state is well-known who are the founders of political parties. The public knows who are the bearers of functions in political parties, but belonging to the political party is a matter that is impossible to judge. How would anyone know that? I think it's completely groundless and I won't repeat the arguments of the debate in principle, even having a slight sound of discrimination against politically engaged citizens, which is contrary to Serbia's public interest, because a kind of lack of interest in social events, a politicism is just as dangerous as part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7007	Thank you. (Ivan Andric, from the place: Replica. Who asked for the replica? The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7008	I think this is an essential question. I have no intention of extending the debate, but this shows a fundamental misunderstanding, regardless of what the government has done, the ministry has accepted most of our amendments. This is where we come to the point. We think that the problem for the entire political system and for our society is that general attitude that people come to the party to achieve some kind of benefit. That's what we think for a lot of reasons. It is a general belief. Look outside, talk to people. We think it's the difference between us and Germany. There is no such belief. So we think that our answer must be more radical and that we, as parties, need to create some kind of atmosphere in which this society will move and solve problems, that we don't need people whose motives are to be on the board of some public enterprise. Our interest is that people who have such a motive should not be in our party. If they want to deal with the economy or the economy, let them be entrepreneurs, let them work in private businesses, banks, wherever they want. We understand the radicality of this proposal, but we are just saying that the situation in Serbia is so difficult and so different that only such an answer is needed. There's no need for us to trust someone or not to trust them. We're not talking about that, Mr. Granny. I'm sorry about your personal address. That's not what we're talking about. It's not our intention to lynch people. We think it's very bad, to read some names. First, we don't know if it's true. We're talking about it being a general impression. We think it's a good idea, that it's a smart idea and that it's the interest of all parties, namely our society, to show that we don't do politics. We don't need that. (President: Time. Let me just finish my sentence. If we're supposed to bother finding professional people in these 700 public companies times three members of the Supervisory Board, let's go to all the trouble. Only by doing so would the picture of all of us, for some time relatively short, be much better than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7009	Thank you. The word is Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7010	Unfortunately, when it comes to the general picture, it is a general picture of parliament sitting here 250 people drinking cheap coffee, eating lunch at a cheap restaurant, doing nothing, sitting, talking, debateing and spending money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, that's the picture. I know that's not the case and that in the good part, we all accept the responsibility and obligations that the parliamentary mandate carries with it. I can't accept what the general picture is and what someone is going to sit in a restaurant think of some people who work in public enterprises run public enterprises. I can only talk and I want to talk about facts, not eye color or tie that these people, who run public enterprises, wear, but whether they're doing good or not doing good. Will they be able to do better? Yeah, always. Do they work in accordance with the law or don't they work in accordance with the law? It is in the state that if they do not work well to be replaced and I will be the first to raise a hand for such a thing, and if they work against the law to comply.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7011	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7012	I feel the need to explain again why the government refused the amendment. It needs to be separated and very tight corporate governance and control. If the company's public, who owns it? They're not private owners. They own the state. One might feel that Serbia does not need any public enterprises. It's a legitimate attitude. Then all public enterprises should be abolished and we don't need this law. Then we'll have private property, we just don't have a public sector. That's, of course, impossible. Public enterprises exist everywhere in the world. Therefore, a commitment to the department means an advocate for the professionalisation of corporate governance, that experts and professionals manage. Control, state, government, or local self-government must control. Who makes government, who makes local self-government? Politicians. I don't know if a private association of citizens can now, possibly if they win the election, they're back in politics. So, even if the Association of Citizens, it's still politics. There's no need to exaggerate. The function of control is strengthened by the fact that no man will be completely independent. We step up by giving qualifications for this supervisory and control role, but we must not say that it must not be a member of the party in the control function. I can agree with you for management. That's the proposal we made here. Of course there's an individual responsibility. I'm against any collective responsibility of anyone, party, in any domain. Anyone who appoints a member of the board of directors of a public enterprise, whether in the Republic, the province or the locale, and the ring, it did not embarrass itself, but that party and it lost confidence in the elections. The management function is not questionable, because essential management is professionalized by this law. I think that really, in addition to all the good amendments you've given, this one is completely excess and makes a bit of a larpularism.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7013	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7014	I would like to rephrase to the Proposer to make the matter more clear. We don't have, I'm talking about the position of the URS parliamentary group, the misunderstanding regarding the decryption of the existing social situation and the public's attitude towards the way political parties work. There's no misunderstanding. There is no misunderstanding even in a valuable position that political parties have a duty to only commit to higher standards and forms of consciousness that will be the introduction to a social understanding of the intensity of partyocracy. Our objection is at the level of the technical criteria. The acceptance of the second part of the amendment is not possible because it is not distinctive. The language of logic is not decisive. You can set the criteria, but with a member you can be a candidate who won't die during the term of office. How does one who exercises the right of the Founder not to die during his term? How it can determine that it is not a member of any political party, and it produces a completely unpleasant convention, as if experts are desirable to be consultative party members so that they can assume public responsibilities in their profession. It's not the interest of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7015	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Ivan Andric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7016	When it comes to the question of who owns the public enterprise, what's the answer? That's where we might be different. From my perspective, it's not a state. She's a formal owner, essential owners are citizens. Do we agree on that? The second item you said, as a pillar of that provision, is that it's professional management, so party personnel will control it. No, it's not professional management. The director who gets elected director, then freezes his post in some party, won't be controlled by his party colleagues. It's very simple. So, it keeps saying, day by day, that this role of state, and in the extreme instance and political parties, is reduced to some kind of control. No, she's not, she's still the manager. We can talk about it a thousand times, you can repeat it one way or the other, but it stays that way. I'm vice president of the LDP, if I'm elected director of the "Serbishum" and I freeze my post, no one else can be vice president of my party and I'll be on the list in the next election. So, both preconditions that can lead to me thinking that I'm misusing that function are still present. Freezed function our political system doesn't know. That, among other things, has been answered by the European Commission in the election of governors. It's not a practice that exists in this country, so we're going to convince the citizens that everything's okay now. It's not right. So we're talking about a chain of connections here. Supervisory boards, commissions, a ministry that does not have to choose in the order proposed by the commission and ultimately a director who freezes his post. There's no department, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7017	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7018	I personally have nothing against the amendment. I don't think the intention may be bad, but it's a key problem that it's really inconclusive. I think the proponent is also aware that the absolutely inconclusive part relating to membership in the political party is absolutely inconclusive. As my colleague Milenic discussed, the simple record of members of the political party is not a public ID. Who will be that institution and who will determine whether or not you are a member of the party? That's the first one. We objectively have, according to some estimates, more than a million members, or millions of Serbian citizens are party members, and by some sources almost two million. I really can't tell you exactly what those two are, but it's definitely a lot of people. In this way, all these people would be completely discriminated against, not in a position to join the board of directors. I find an absolutely inconclusive amendment like this, and it just doesn't make sense for me to insist on it, although I think there's a good intention behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7019	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. (Boyan Djuric, from the place: Replica! ) Mr. Andric is entitled to a replica. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: No, Mr Andric received a word on behalf of the parliamentary group, and I am one of the promoters. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7020	Of course, we won't spread. We'll end up, as far as LDP is concerned, with this replica. It's amazing what Mr. Milenić and Mr. Ilic claim. How is it possible for this absolutely independent member of the Supervisory Board to be found not to be a member of the political party and not possible for these remaining members? It is either possible in Serbia's legal order to determine whether it is a party member or not. Then you won't be able to implement this part of that member talking about an independent board member. So I don't get into legal analysis. That norm is enforceable absolutely, it is applied to some other bodies. There are a whole series of functions in this country that cannot perform persons who are members of the political party. A statement is made that someone is not a member of the political party. If it's found that it is, it's the answer. It's the legal mechanism by which it works. Mr. Ilichu, you said something that is essential. (President: Do not address the MP directly, please. ) It is terrible that Serbia has between one and two million members of political parties at the moment. There aren't so many of them. We all know that there are not so many people, unfortunately, who are essentially interested in politics and partying. They're breaking into party thresholds. Some are members of several political parties, all in the hope of obtaining a seat on the supervisory board, a simple workplace, even if it is the place of furniture in state authorities. This populism and these ambitions have destroyed the political system, as in the past government destroyed the supervisory boards, including the idea of reducing wages, or compensation to 25 or 30 thousand. It's the same motivation for someone to get a place in the state administration through the party, to work for 20-25 000 or to be a member of a supervisory or management board of a huge state-owned company that has hundreds of millions or billions of euros in traffic each year. That is what the administrative and supervisory committees in this country are all about, at 200 euros a month. That's why it's such a problem. I would have more understanding that high-ranking party officials, whose responsibility is clear to the public, are eventually delegated to the boards of directors or in this case. No, this is how you push professional and political anonymouss, people who stand on boards, show up without looking at the material. Most of the time, that's how it's gonna be. You can confirm that yourself on the case, I think, one member of your political party, who left the public office, and you've been claiming to have had good results all along. I don't think that's disputed, but he was attacked in public just because he had too much pay for the tastes of that populism. No one talked about whether the company was successful or not. After that, no one was involved in this company anymore. The question is, in the end, what was the greater damage, his slightly higher salary, or possibly the bad results that were achieved after that populist decision? Thank you, and I won't be using any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7021	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7022	An example has just been set to support what we want to say. The example illustrates that membership in a political organisation does not disabling anyone's expertise in any way. The issue of independence is the issue of integrity. We can talk about independent personalities, not based on knowledge of the actual state of affairs regarding their signatures in the records books of this party or that party, but based on their consistency and intellectual courage, the willingness to speak in public, when it is critical and dangerous, what is objectively and socially relevant. It's a real sense of independence. There's nothing bad about being part of a political party. It is strictly political and does not differ from cheerleading. I wish all citizens with the right to vote had as close a relationship as possible with the political parties they vote for. There would be nothing ugly or dangerous about civil society in Serbia, but building criteria of individual integrity is what is of general interest. Let's not declare it incompatible with political orientation. Apoliticality, blindness to political colors is a much greater social danger. It is not necessary to encourage this type of indifference in the civil public of Serbia. How do you understand the category of independence? It does not necessarily have to be printed with a party book check, just as it would be really difficult, or at least we would have to count with some integrity of the one who makes a statement without any possibility of practically checking whether he has deceived us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7023	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-11-0.u7024	Are you sure it's finally me now, since there are people here who are very eloquent and very difficult to come to terms? I think that supervisory committees, by definition, deep down, in a system of public enterprises, when the exception of a couple of large ones, those who represent grosses in the public sector, are not so important or important. In order for someone to be a member of the Supervisory Board by definition, the point is to be able to monitor something, to be educated, trained, and smarter than those to be supervised. I doubt we have enough personnel in Serbia at all, whether they are party or nonpartisan, for adequate quality supervision. It would be enough for some people to know at least what they don't know, so they can be qualified in some small environments, to be members of some supervisory committees. I agree with my colleagues that people go into the party to eventually get a seat of the board of directors or supervisors, and that's one of the motives, especially on the periphery, by the bar, but I'm not sure that's their biggest flaw and the greatest weakness that belongs to a party, to be members of the Supervisory Board. It's a big problem at least in my bar to drag a smart man into any party to take this business more seriously in a responsible way. I'm afraid that under quotes chasing party members on these small boards is some kind of heresy. In view of the fact that from the Prime Minister, members of the government, cabinets, and all those who rule the state are practically party members, I am not sure that such purity in the periphery would have some important effect on improving the quality of the work of these supervisory committees. It would be ideal if no one would actually know that these people who are members of the supervisory board in these public enterprises are small in the periphery, only professionals who do so, and that no one even knows that they are party members or that they boast that they are members of a party. Thank you.
