ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 175 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. At this point, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, on the basis of Articles 87 and 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since Tuesday, today's day, is in accordance with Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, we have the opportunity to request information and explanations based on this member of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Since there are no reports of these issues so far, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Since none of the authorised representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić and Mrs Vesna Stepic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 130 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was convened at the request of 130 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012 the next Dn e n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on ministries, which was submitted by 126 MPs, 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted by 126 MPs, 3. A bill amending the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by 126 MPs. National MP Dr Jorvanka Tabaković, under Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint search be carried out on all three points of the agenda: a draft law on ministries, a draft law supplementing the Law on Government and a bill amending the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. Does the MP Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 126 MPs voted for this proposal, two were against, no one was abstention, no 62 MPs voted, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. At this point, in the spirit of parliamentary practice so far, I would like to get the opinion of the committees responsible for the proposed laws, and to that end, I am setting a break of one hour, so that we can get the committee's opinions. Constitutional committee sessions will be held in this session. You will receive, or all members of the board will receive calls at which place and at which time the constitutional sessions of the board will be held. We'll try to make sure that one part of those sessions are held tomorrow so that we can work more expediently today. I also announce to you the next session of the National Assembly, scheduled for tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. We'll continue work at 17.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Gentlemen, we're opening a joint search. So far, proposals have been submitted for Mr Bojan Djuric, a member of the Liberal Democratic Party to be authorised representative and Mrs Elvira Kovac on behalf of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. Do we have any more proposals for authorised representatives or not? If we do not have, unanimously by decision of the National Assembly, to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 07. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and the time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Do we have a proposal from a representative or president of a parliamentary group to extend time in principle? No, I don't. ) I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - 1 hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 15 minutes and 36 seconds, the MP's group PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Vojvodina Hungarians - six minutes, the SP-DHSSSS Group - six minutes and 36 seconds, the group of the six minutes of the Social League – the six minutes lead. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law on ministries, a draft law supplementing the Law on Government, a bill amending the Law on the Foundations of the Security Office of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u145	President-in-Office of the Assembly, vice-presidents, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I have the honour to vote on behalf of the coalition and the parliamentary majority, who I hope will vote on the new government as soon as possible, explaining three legislative proposals that are a prerequisite for the new government to form. You have three legislative proposals before you, one on amendments to the Government Act, one new proposal for a law on ministries and a third proposal that is very short and talks about a different technical solution on the basis of the organisation of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. I will talk about these legal proposals as much as necessary to assure you that you are voting for these laws, and that at no time the prime minister's exposé, which we expect, does not lose exclusiveness in the sense of specifying the tasks the new government intends to carry out, implementing the Agreement on the Programme Coalition. I will start with the Law on Supplements to the Government Act, where we have made an effort in all four members to convince the citizens of Serbia that any promise made in the election campaign will be fulfilled, and the first of those promises concerns the finding made by all parties regardless of the identification, left-wing, right-wing, centralist, any, since all parties involved in the election campaign agreed that we have a large number of organisations, agencies, bodies, authorities of government that are not under government control were established in three different ways, and some of them were founded by special laws that defined their establishment. Some of these bodies were founded by the laws and decisions of the government, and some of them formed themselves. To assure you how right we are, I will tell you that the government, no ministry or body in charge of registering those organisations and bodies could come out with a precise number of organisations that, as public authorities, do certain jobs for citizens on behalf of the Government and the ministries elected. Citizens choose between political parties in the elections and their programmes. For the citizens of Serbia, the political parties and their representatives in the government, from ministers to that layer of officials they decide for and place them, regardless of the way and position they have under the Civil Service Act, are responsible for the citizens, the political parties forming the government and ministers taking over from the citizens the obligation to do a part of the job on behalf of the citizens, and on behalf of the government they belong to. The interrupted link between ministers voted for by the National Assembly, where its representatives and organisations and bodies and agencies, who are not responsible for anyone, over whom no one controls, whose financial flows almost no one controls, are put under the control of the government, and the adoption of acts that will cause growth and weeds, which spend a lot of citizens' money, are aware of the extent to which the economy of Serbia and Serbian citizens who finance them can handle. Thus, in addition to this control which has already been established by existing laws, where the Government has jurisdiction over the regulations and decisions taken by the authorities of the administration, it has extended the public authorities, but at the level of the Republic. So, in order not to create a confusion that the Government is now putting unwarranted control over what is called local self-government, we have defined that it is the public authority holders at the level of the Republic, but to immediately tell those who care that you and such bodies and organisations, i.e. public authorities, are not concerned by accident, for example, the Protector of Citizens, I must say, look at Article 138. A constitution that does not belong to the category of those public authorities. So, in a good practice that is currently in existence in Serbia, no one touches or wants a good practice of regulatory independent bodies that justify their role and function, nor to limit them, nor to put them under direct or indirect control. Ali, Article 137. The constitution, which gives the right to trust public authorities and public services to entrust a certain part of the job, has turned one Law on public agencies into a source of abuse of the monopoly of public work. The state is setting up one agency with the best intentions, giving it the means to operate, and then when it strengthens enough, it slowly pulls itself out of the single account of the republican budget, gets under the control of the minister who is responsible for it and lives some special life as something is weeds in the state organisation and, worst of all, to the financial damage to the republican budget and the total funds that citizens pay for. This law provides that the government takes measures, not necessarily, to annul an act that is not in agreement. It means that no one thinks that this is a kind of overjudgment, because already existing practice, where under the Law on State Administration under Article 57, there is the possibility that these and such acts may be re-examined, that the deadline for their review and re-adjustment is taken over in this law, because you have a large number of agencies that are mostly at the same time making regulations, apply the same, decide on the rights and obligations and natural persons, but also legal ones, means both businesses and in these services, which simply come into conflict of interest and violate the constitutional principle of the division of power. The government is coming to the Assembly with a request to approve her introduction of a tax. It's a common practice in a democratic society, where we have a division of legislative, executive and judicial power. These agencies set their own fees, set their own jobs, and very often the amount of those fees for the paperwork they issue, some assurances that are, I say, the monopoly and public authority that the state has handed over to them, that it is not at all the price of that service in terms of work, the effort they are making to issue one such certificate. What did that lead to? This led to the fact that we have a society in which you have unusual disproportionateness between the salaries of those who are by rank, function and value of the highest function in the state, and that on the other hand you have some behind the curtain hidden unknown persons and names who receive 10 salaries of one President of the Republic, one President of the Assembly or some of the most responsible functions. To stop you from happening, we have brought amendments and additions to the Government Act, or just additions to the Government Act, where we have made a commitment to the Government, which is otherwise responsible for responding in such cases, to have insight into these bodies and organizations. We have another little change in Article 8 that defines these authorities of the state administration, where we add these holders of public authority. We have prescribed the same procedure as the acts they bring, and they are not for the benefit of the citizens, can be annulled in the manner and within the deadlines provided. This is all in the Government Act, which is the beginning of what I said would be the exclusive right of the prime minister to announce as a new approach to spending public funds and maintaining the number of necessary and useful authorities of the administration. The next law I want to talk about is the Ministry Act. This law is not largely innovated. He has taken over earlier solutions in terms of ministry jurisdiction and it is only one different composition of some ministries and in establishing special offices, but there is one important paper that is related to the law I spoke about for a little while, and so I will start from the end of this law on ministries, where, by the law that the previous minister introduced, we consider it a good practice, we have given the Minister the right to propose within 45 days of the date of entry into force of this law, a discharge of a civil servant in office if he has not achieved the results in his work. The government will determine the termination of work in the solution, where it will also contain the reasons why the work in place has ceased. In order not to accidentally interpret this right beyond or abuse where we as promoters had no intention of being abused, we have defined by the 4th position of this member that the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, will, but only in this case, under Article 2, propose a civil servant in a position that is to be appointed new to these tasks. The news is that we have introduced four offices, one of which will deal with the issues of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, human and minority rights, churches and religious communities and diaspora. Please don't let any of you think that the formulation of the service is any level of lowering the authority of these organisational forms, but we've made sure that we don't create a situation where, by abolishing the ministries that have done this job, we get a huge job for someone who's going to write solutions to break up the working relationship of unscheduled persons and not bring unnecessary unrest to people who are going to be assigned to these offices. We used the legal formulation in Article 37 that the Government would establish special services, because the legislature, the Assembly and the MPs here give the government the right to organise for these matters the organisational forms which are here called services, but they do not mean that these organisational parts will be called services, because we want to give the public the knowledge that we will not reduce the importance of the jobs that are done here, even on the contrary, for example, the proposal of our colleagues from the URS was that we do not leave the diaspora in the framework of the Ministry of Culture and Information, because this will mean the approach so far, even in the verbal sense, that we consider the diaspora as cultural and artistic societies and publishing magazines in languages or bulletins for our diaspora. So, the desire to respect the specificity of diaspora, human and minority rights, but also Kosovo and Metohija where there should not be a special ministry for part of the territory of the Serbian state, but that one office unites all these affairs, means that the Government will have the right to carry out a detailed description of the jobs these offices will do and I ask all those who doubt that, God forbid, the jurisdiction of those who are dealing with minority rights or what is the intensity of all the countries in Europe, and ours on that European path, will simply not worry, because a special description of the jobs will be one of the first jobs of the government. What I'd like to say is a word or two, which is that we have 17 ministries and I'm simply asking for an understanding. None of us, and I trust you, was particularly difficult to extend some of the 12-15 ministries' proposals to this number, because including the widest possible, as Mr. Prime Minister has said, the coalition has over 140 MPs in this House as a representative of citizens, who will be interested in the success of the team that will be the government, we have extended that number to 17. The savings that will be made under the control of these bodies and organizations, where you have 2700 accounts of such organizations that the finance minister, even though I have begged him for years, failed to put into the consolidated account of the Treasury, to monitor their financial movements, so that at the same time not to be in debt and to pay interest is sufficient reason to give us the right, which we are proposing today, to assure you that these 17 ministries will not be a great cost, given what we intend to save. Some of the jobs that the finance and business ministry has taken in its usual practice are said to have now been listed by the ministry, which, meanwhile, has succeeded in getting credit for those who handed it to him. I assure you that the government headed by the prime minister, Mr. Dacic, and I expect the first vice president, Mr. Vukic, to do everything possible to ensure that no ministry is a fortress for itself, not just a feud for itself, but that the authorities that have to do business for the entire government. Starting with what is called the Statistics Institute, as a special organisation, that all similar bodies such as – the Secretariat of the Legislatives must be humanely strengthened and given the importance necessary for the Constitutional Court to deal with other matters, not with the assessment of non-constitutional laws that went to the Constitutional Court and so assessed, that the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the Directorate for Property, the Institute for Intellectual Property, Social Insurance, Geodetic and others will experience in the subsequent work and agreement of the Government a certain change, where the only motive will be the unification of these bodies of the Administration within the Ministries in order to better control and not overlap business between individual ministries. I don't want to talk about this law anymore. What we have introduced, I have to do because of my colleague, who is sitting next to me and who will certainly be the Minister of Energy, to say that for the first time we have entered what is the obligation of the Serbian state, which is to take special care of the energy security of the state and that what is today practice and about the story of the agencies, we have no case of the state having an obligation to worry about anything. For example, about the security of the sky over Serbia, and that money is coming from that sky, is being spent by someone else, and that the Serbian government has absolutely no control over it, but when there is damage and when there is a disaster to be resolved, then put your hand back in the budget. The extent of the powers must be proportionate to the responsibilities. The right to earn funds must be leveled with the right to report on these revenues and never again to any government that knows not what happens with the budget filling and that it does not know about financial flows and that it is a member of the government and that it sits at a table called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a team, because its success is the success of all, and above all, the citizens of Serbia. Just a word or two more on the law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, where we have made an amendment on how to appoint the Secretary of Council so that it is not the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic, as Secretary of the Council in a position, but to appoint and resolve it by the President of the Republic. To commend my opposition colleagues, who were on the Security Control Committee, who were very constructive in the discussion, have announced amendments. I must remind you, we are very aware that everyone who rules the security services, whoever rules the secret, the authority, who does not emerge from the very personality, sooner or later loses power and power and that he is the right force, those who will deal with these affairs, in a responsible relationship with the information they possess and that such information is never misused in political accounts. I will ask all of this opportunity never to repeat the practice, that once the Constitutional Court has abolished your decision to listen, that the Government will comply with the Law on Electronic Communications, so continue to control citizens by monitoring, recording, listening, etc., because in this country, citizens have to experience their own government. She'll live her life if she works in their interest. I am convinced that this government of the Republic of Serbia will work primarily in the interests of all Serbian citizens. I expect the other MPs in this House to support amendments and additions and a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? He has the word of Mrs. Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u147	Thank you. As an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, the Honorable President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must begin this discussion by saying that we believe it is demagogue to talk about that the smaller government will be more effective. Of course, we SVM MPs have nothing against it and we support that the government has fewer members, but we find it wrong to reduce the number or the calculation whether there are 15, 17, 19 or more or more of 20 ministries, that this is something that is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia and that we will save extremely much money. Whether the new government of the Republic of Serbia will be effective and whether it will do the job for which it is elected, whether it will implement the programme, does not depend on the number of ministries. So the economics of that government, rationality and functional organization can exist. Look at the examples from European countries. If we look at Hungary, it has eight ministries, and we know there's some space between 15 and 18. As SVM, MPs, the party, we have never been a factor of instability in this country, we are neither now nor in the future. We will, even now that we are in the position of the opposition, continue to be honest, honest, but we will try to cooperate. We will have constructive suggestions and expect you to listen to these suggestions and, if possible, to adopt some of them. In the past, we've always tried not to drown, as we like to say, in large parties. And now we have come to the elections on our own, and we will try to have an opinion in the future, and we will present that opinion on every important topic in the Serbian Parliament. In my discussion, I will rely most on the draft ministry law. What we consider to be the biggest mistake and the greatest damage is that in this bill we do not see anywhere in particular the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We also heard in the proposal that this government has not forgotten human and minority rights. Those who read this whole bill in more detail see that there is a ministry whose work is precisely this job. But what is missing, perhaps it's just a cosmetic correction, that someone who reads, what the media will pass on -- 17 ministries. Someone who doesn't know exactly which ministry we're dealing with, because there's a lot of illogicality, but that's what I'm going to discuss in the second part of the discussion, maybe it's not clear within what ministry we're actually dealing with human and minority rights. We therefore believe that the name of the ministry – the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration should be highlighted. That's one minimum we expected from you. We all know that Serbia is one multiethnic, multinational state and, according to the census, 18% of the population are members of national minorities or national communities. That's almost one fifth of this population. As I am already the principles of the special Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, we have proposed it and we have been at this point to form a special ministry in 2008, when it was formed previously or as some call it – the outgoing government. We were extremely pleased that the ministry had formed. One of the main reasons was then because there was a ministry which could later propose a law on national minority councils and the ministry that also held the first direct elections for national councils of national minorities. The SVM considers this to be the most significant body of cultural autonomy for national minorities. In 2011, when the government's reconstruction was on the agenda, we were at the point of view that it would be better if the special and independent ministry had survived, but it didn't happen. We still voted for that reconstruction. But, as I mentioned, we didn't want to be the reason for political instability. We had a second situation – that these national councils of national minorities had not already been formed before and had not passed the first direct elections. On the other hand, I remind you that at the time we insisted that this cosmetic editorial at the ministry that entered the Ministry of State and local self-government at the time, this ministry was called, meaning, in its name, it carried and emphasized in the first place – the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government. We kind of expected that even now, in this bill of law that we got from you, we'd see it. It's a big shame it's not like that. What would be a better solution and what Dr Tabakovic was talking about in her opening work is, and I must stress that this is so, in Article 37 of this bill, it is proposed to establish special services to the AP KiM of human and minority rights, churches and religious communities and diaspora. You mentioned special offices here and emphasized their importance, and in the bill, the services. We believe that the service is and you asked us to be constructive, to understand that it is no less important than the ministry, but we believe that the service is of less importance than, for example, the administration. If we had a special administration for human and minority rights, then it would be clear what part of it deals with these issues and it would be important in the very law that we are now discussing and that you are likely to adopt in a few days. So we would have a special administration, as we have a special administration with many ministries – the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, etc. So we don't understand why you couldn't have been within the Department of Justice and State Administration, what do you call it? Then at least you needed a special management to suggest. This is one minimum for us, in a civilized European country. We all know that the basic definition of our country is European integration and the way to the EU, but, on the other hand, what might be less talked about is that we are a member of the Council of Europe and that we are still under the monitoring process of the Council of Europe. Full membership in the EU is our strategic goal and that is why, and because of this progress in the process of European integration, but also because of the monitoring of the SE process itself, we must show significant further progress in the area of human and minority rights. That's why you could really think about this special administration. So a special administration for this area could be involved in fulfilling the commitments undertaken and ensuring further progress in this extremely important area. When we talk about further concrete solutions proposed in this proposal for the ministry law, I must stress that, according to the SVM parliamentary group, there is a lot of illogicalness and it is unclear for us. For example, if you talk so much about this rationalisation and the reduction of the number of ministries, why is it necessary for the Ministry of Transport to exist in particular by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism? Not to mention that the media is speculating that one ministry for Corridor 10, the other for Corridor 11. It's a complete illogicality. Another thing, with respect for a colleague who's probably an exceptional energy expert. Why is it necessary to have a special Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Force Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning? I'm not saying that it would be an ideal solution if we could bring these two ministries together, the detour would really be too wide, but somehow it's more logical, at least for us, to connect energy and mining, and on the other hand, environmental planning and spatial planning. Because, we think, if the environment stays in the Ministry of Energy, it will be of total secondary importance to this extremely important topic. What the same question is, I have to admit, when I read this proposal in more detail, that some things were clearer, but we never had the Ministry of Internal and Foreign Trade. We don't understand why it's necessary to base on that, simply, the Ministry of Trade. What I must commend, not only to criticise, is that for us, it is of paramount importance that you finally separated the trade from agriculture. Agriculture is one of the most important industries for all of us and it is extremely important that you have predicted trade in a special ministry, but we do not understand why you stress that internal and external trade is supposed to be both, and it is completely unclear why you add telecommunications. Also, of course the issue of youth and sports is important, but we do not understand why it is more important to have a special Ministry of Youth and Sports, and on the other hand, a science that we completely forget to associate with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, because this is also how not enough funding is foreseen for previous budgets for extremely important scientific research, development and science in our country. We don't have a special Ministry of Science. As I have already mentioned, we don't have a special Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We've got a few more misunderstandings. We find it unclear to share, i.e. connecting the portfolio, Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government. Somehow they would link it to me like it was for the state administration and local self-government, regional development is clear to us who will be the proposed minister and why the so-called ministry, which is not what I want to do, but somehow the Justice Ministry should remain the Ministry of Justice, and the state administration should connect with local self-government. I must also commend that the bill highlights the importance and explained that, in fact, in the work of the mentioned Ministry of Justice, the state administration also includes the keeping of the register of national minority councils, namely the selection of these national councils of national minorities, as well as, this is extremely significant, the preparation of human and minority rights rules, as well as other business-specific laws. I would like to point out once again that it is extremely important for us that there is a special Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and that it is not included in the trade, but I would like to stress, which is also extremely good, that you have proposed here special administrations, the Veterinary Administration, the Plant Protection Authority, the Republic Water Directorate, the Forest Administration, and we do not understand why you could not suggest a special administration within the second ministry. Not to say again, there are several misunderstandings about the integration of these ministries. We believe that mining and energy is something that was meant to be together, and it is unnecessary to especially connect natural resources, it is all connected. What I believe most will praise is that you do not plan to abolish the Directorate for Gender Equality within the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, which is good. The mention of the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Trade, as you call it, is completely unclear and we consider it to be too extensive work. Why are there telecommunications and why is there even proposed that there is a special Digital Agenda Administration? You're saying that this proposal, as it is, is to ensure the effective and economic work of the government, to achieve certain responsibilities that it has and that it is best suited to the interests and needs of the Republic of Serbia and to say that this is reorganization, because you've talked a lot about what the ministries are, which are no longer ministries, which will be offices, although I don't see it here, I can see that it's proposed to be services. In your explanation, you say that all of this is done, or proposed, to make work as efficient as possible, in order to save resources. We don't see it from here. The SVM believes that if there is an efficiency of the government's work, if it performs its tasks well and concrete results are seen, then it really doesn't matter how many resistors there are and after a few months people will forget exactly how many ministries there are and how many members of the government they have. We hope, frankly, that the new government in the future will indeed be pro-European and as effective as possible. We expect you to be open to suggestions and suggestions from the opposition, to adopt as many opposition proposals as possible and to work, both in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and in the interest of all national minorities or national communities living in this country. In voting day, of course, we won't be able to support this proposal, on the one hand, because of a very simple explanation, because we decided to stay in the opposition and the opposition won't vote for this proposal, and on the other hand because of all the troubles I've made over the past few minutes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. The word has a proposing representative, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. I can hear myself even when you can't see me. Just because, as you would say, an approachal analysis of the Ministry Act, I will be pleased not to answer you, but to reassure you, without expecting you to believe my word, because there is someone who, in a piece that is not fully defined today, to define in the best way tomorrow, I mean the Prime Minister, and when he looks at his associates, is the best organisational form that, I repeat, and I want us to no longer use it as an argument, nor as an answer to the question, the service is a formulation that exists in the Government Act, so that people and jobs are not found in the vacuum in terms of working relationship, in the legal void and in terms of business. So we didn't leave the government the right to establish an office by regulation, so that, from the moment the government was elected, to the fact that day, anyone would feel insecure about it. I have to assure you that it wasn't our goal, and we even took care of it, for example. the name of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is not changed in such a way that we should only change the tiles at the Ministry's door or memos, because we are intended, or, that is, the government is intended to take care of each dinar and not be exposed to any unnecessary cost. But what you insist on, is that for the Republic of Serbia minority rights are something that is quite well assessed so far and that is an integral part of the overall democratisation of our society, that we take very much into account and that in this office that will deal with these affairs, the ultimate consideration will be defined by its level of organization, so that it can meet all the challenges that, precisely in terms of monitoring, minority rights and all these other marginal groups, monitor, control, implement and all that is in this regard. I'm just going to point out one concrete measure that we talked about while we were working on this law. It is that the joint work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina will be to develop and implement a national strategy for democratic minority policy in the Republic of Serbia. So, with its lower level of organisation, the government will work on this strategy, to determine the priorities and objectives of all, and in particular the state bodies, political parties, but also civil society in this area. I hope that we will be able to welcome here one day the establishment of a competent working body, which on this strategy will be able to do a lot and which will be commended, as you are commended, as they are, the parts that deserve it. So, in a comprehensive law that will be passed in this area, complete matter concerning this area will be codified, and we, as you said, have left in the Ministry of State Administration only the running of registers, churches, religious communities, political and other organisations, but also the Council of National Minorities and only the adoption of regulations. For example, you mention the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government. We took great care that, for example, local self-government, which has to do with regional development, not only are the regions, as they are, something that will be a direct communication in the future Europe without borders, but without even having one moment to decentralisation at the level that will mean, for example, that the ministry of this administration is making rules on elections, but that we don't even have a linguistic doubt that we are conducting local elections on this ministry, because it really doesn't concern it. I was even pleasantly surprised, for example, by the Home Secretary, who, when we talked about foreign trade and the place of arms trafficking and dual-purpose goods, which at one point in the nature of things was supposed to be at the Ministry of Defense, then we realized that it was best to be in these foreign trade deals, Mr. Dacic, to comment on a less informed member of the team, he said it should, for example. in the Ministry of the Interior to be found, with analogy that it is the care of the Ministry of the Interior for the transport of goods and the transport of goods for special purposes, and is thought of as flammable. Mr. Dacic, it doesn't matter that he was always a good student, but he pleasantly surprised me by knowing every detail, laughing at such a remark, saying it had nothing to do with the arms trade, because traffic as a word in this sense means only transportation at the Ministry of the Interior. I don't know if I'm going to convince you with this that we've done a lot of checking and when we've separated internal and external trade, because as an economist, you know for sure that foreign trade, foreign payment funds, foreign currency inspectorate, foreign exchange control, the recording of foreign trade is not the happiest solution and is not the most fully solved in the places where it should be. That is why we have separated internal trade and foreign trade, where this ministry will deal with both bilateral contracts and multilateral and CEFTOM and many similar jobs within the ministry. When you say the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the absolute separation of those resources that are already in the function of energy production, heat in terms of what mining is like a spear and what is already being used, and the pipeline and energy production based on a pipeline that exists is something completely separate from natural resources, which is today the largest area, from wind power, rivers and all other natural resources, over which each country is trying to keep a special account. So far, believe me, natural resources have only been mentioned as the right of the Ministry of Finance to introduce a tax on these natural resources. It cannot be Serbia's concern just that some natural resource will charge in terms of exploitation, no healing factor, no sand, no water, let alone the most attractive thing in the world today. Open today's paper and you'll see what's most attractive today. Finding this mineral, those ore, etc. As a state, we need to open up this space for investors most seriously, guaranteeing them a clear, predictable procedure, so that they can deal with what's called the opening of mineral fields, but also exploits in which, above all, the state of Serbia will benefit. I probably won't answer this in detail to all the other remarks, but the digital agenda, the information society, telecommunications, which were added to internal and external trade, didn't have a functional connection everywhere. But did they have, you know, when you want to burden everyone with the same amount of weight, or the power of the ministry? Now, we haven't done it here according to the number of people who have power as employees, we haven't done it in order that someone has a larger amount of intelligence, but simply, and it's not a shame to admit, as much more realistic and more appropriate force to that part of the coalition that participates in such an agreement. I ask you not to worry, because the best personnel from all parties will be in that other ministry to help do things the best way, and if you have to, and you should, because when you get your change back in the store, it's no shame to count it, that coalition partners are one another and control one another, and that, I would love, never again do the dirty laundry of former coalitions wash. Please don't let this cause any replicas, because it is a criticism to all of us. We have all participated in the government once, but that misunderstandings from earlier coalitions are never washed in front of citizens and campaigns, but that in what is called the fight against corruption, against illegal use of public funds, abuse of functions, conflicts of interest, etc., works where this is the place and that the authorities in charge are working on it. Your constructiveity will surely be respected in the amendments you submit. I say we are formal promoters, but those who are also formally members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be actually people who decide on the amendments that we will adopt here and that we will discuss. I promise we'll consider each of them carefully, because this is the basis on which we'll work together. I thank you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic, president of the SP-DHSS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u151	Dear President, dear fellow Members, without a desire to challenge the controversy, I must note that a document can be found on a SNS site last year announcing that it will hand over to the government of the Republic of Serbia a petition that will require that the number of ministries be reduced by half. I don't think that's wrong, but I don't think it would bring any too much savings. However, some campaign promises, for the sake of conviction that in the future everything drawn as a goal, should be respected. So I also said during the reconstruction of the last government, when the number of ministries was reduced, and there was no substantial savings, for the reasons that only certain resolutions, some ministers took over the state secretaries, and the ministry remained the same. First of all, transparency should be ensured in the work of the future government. We are witnessing that government sessions that were often held in the last term were not transparent enough. On the Croatian Government website, you can see you, you can pick up a clip, which shows how any of the ministers voted. This should also be the practice of the future government so MPs who provide transparency in the work of this parliament can also be citizens of Serbia who choose ministers through MPs so they can know who they voted for and why they voted for, who advocated their interests. An argument that would potentially defend the existence or establishment of the Diaspora Ministry Office is not valid, within the framework of the Foreign Ministry, there is already a diaspora directorate. Well, it's not all logical or rational to build a parallel state body to do the same work. I think that, on this point, we should consider, we have the time SPO and the DHSS have submitted amendments and we can in one better way arrange the functioning and care and all ties of diaspora and queens, especially knowing that there are over three and a half million citizens of Serbia in the diaspora. Five and a half billion dollars, and that's what the World Bank as a document clearly proves and shows, comes from the diaspora. So the diaspora care should be bigger and should not be reduced to one office. From an economic point of view in the last 20 years, Serbia would have suffered a collapse and economic collapse if it hadn't been for funds that the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the people of the diaspora, brought and sent to Serbia in various ways. That's why it's very important to keep in touch with a third of the population living outside our country's borders. The preservation of national, religious, cultural, linguistic and other identities, and this can only be achieved in how well we treat the diaspora and Serbs in the region. The contribution to improving the image of our country and our people will certainly be contributed by those people who are tied to the queen in the right way. Also, the Law amending the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, and since this is a united debate and I am talking about several laws, I believe that it is not valid and that the practice that treats security services in this way where united people can control it is not good. For me, and for everyone in Serbia, and especially for those who survived the accident, torture by the security service is much more important control of the security service than handling it. We cannot accept that it is good that one man, so he and the president of Serbia, is setting up a secretary to manage security services, because concentrating power in the hands of one man is certainly not good and cannot bring better control in the future in the service of security. We have such experience, and our history of them speaks, I'm talking about the SPO, and I think it's necessary to change the way the security service works. That is why we will closely monitor every step, everything that is happening, we know who is in those services and these structures, and we hope that there will never be another unfortunate time and accident that is sown in the 1990s and afterwards in Serbia. We fought, we tried every possible way and court rulings, they best speak of it, to show who all the people who are now in the security services are sitting, hiding their dirty and bloody traces from the past two decades, and we think it's the responsibility of the entire state. To solve many murders, politically above all, and to remove themselves from the service of the security of the people who committed crimes. Thank you. In the course of the debate, I'll use the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u152	Thank you, Mr. Jugovic. The word has the deputy president, i.e. the authorised representative of the LSDV parliamentary group, Ms. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u153	I thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say immediately that the LSDV parliamentary group will not support any of the three proposed laws, because we think they are simply not good. When we talk about the Government Act, we see that here the government is taking over certain powers over public authorities at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Proposer's authorised representative, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, said this does not apply to independent regular bodies, but I think the law lacks some part that would explain how it exempts them. I believe that the intention is that, if it really didn't apply to them, but I don't think there'd be any burning in the law and stress, that we would have had that part as unequivocal and as clear. When we talk about the Ministry Act, of course, it is something that is most interesting in today's debate. The same grudge as previous colleagues, we see that the number of ministries proposed by this bill is seventeen. However, when we look at the structure of these ministries, we see that not only is it important, that quality is very important, and when we compare it with the composition of the previous government, we see that many ministries have disappeared from the government, that they have moved to some other kind of business, and that on the other hand we do not have an explanation of the appearance of several ministries that have similar, or even equal powers. We, of course, have given amendments, although we do not have any illusions that the amendments will be accepted, given that in the final formation of the Government and adoption of the Ministry Act, it is exclusively a decision and an expression of the will of the political majority in the Serbian Parliament and that it is ultimately a matter of organising a new ruling coalition. However, we have made some suggestions in which we think the government could be more functional. When it comes to the ministry under regular number two, the Ministry of Finance and Business, again, I have practice, several governments in a row, that the ministry for which Mr Dinkic is in charge, have an incredible spectrum of competence. Unlike other ministries whose responsibilities can be described in one, or two positions for Mr Dinkic's ministries, there are not enough even two pages to cover the responsibilities of those ministries. Our proposal in this sense is that this ministry should be just the Ministry of Finance. We believe that the situation in which Serbia is located, the Ministry of Finance should be a special ministry and that the finance minister, with the respect of all capacities of Mr Dinkic, the finance minister should not, however, be involved in providing services on ski resorts or organisation, maintenance, equipment and provision of services to the thematic parks and public baths. We really believe that the finance minister in Serbia has more to do than deal with thematic parks and that is one of our suggestions. Other suggestions of ours refer to several ministries that have very similar or even identical work. First of all, it's the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Urbanism, then the Ministry of Energy and Development, and we have environmental protection, spatial planning. Now let me not be too long, you will see from the composition of our amendments the way we suggested that the next government be organised. Of course, just like our colleagues in SVM, our biggest regret is that not only is there not a ministry of human and minority rights, but it is absolutely unclear from the current proposal that this ministry in its composition will deal with both human and minority rights. Although the composition of some ministries is very detailed, which are all administrations within these ministries, still the area of human and minority rights remains completely unclear, undefined and seems to be distributed to several ministries, and I think we will agree that it is an area in which Serbia should be engaged. It is something we should do not only because of the international obligations we have, but primarily because of citizens living in Serbia, who very often cannot and do not have the opportunity to exercise all their rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws. In our proposal, we predicted that there are 16 ministries, even one less than the ruling coalition predicted. These would be: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, State Administration and local self-government, Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Energy, Natural Resources, Mining and Environmental Protection, Ministry of Culture and Information, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Regional Development and Ministry of Technological Development and Telecommunications. In addition to the unclear separation of foreign and domestic trade, which we suggest is just trade, since it is unclear what other trade exists, from the economy, magically in this ministry also appears telecommunications. It is quite unclear what trade has to do with telecommunications and how one person, one minister can deal with all this stuff. The same case is with the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. I would like to ask the representative to explain to him what kind of development this is. The ministry is called the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. Whether it's a general development, whether it's about environmental development, energy, because several ministries deal with other kinds of development, and again, of course, energy, natural resources, mining. We don't see any developments that would have brought all of this together into one ministry, simply because of the relatedness of activity and because of the approximately same competences of these ministries. Of course, it is clear to us that certain concessions had to be made in the formation of this government and certain arrangements had to be reached. Unfortunately, however, we have an opportunity to see a bill that was made exclusively as the subject of a coalition agreement, where exactly according to the ministries that are scheduled, we can see who will lead these ministries, but unfortunately we had the reverse process, we did not have to look for people towards the ministries that are scheduled, but we have a reverse situation, i.e. that the ministries are based on the appetites of certain individuals in the ruling coalition. That's why we think this bill is bad. We'll try to fix it with amendments. However, as I have already said, we do not believe that one of the amendments will be adopted. After all, this is a specific law, since this is a law that is exclusively a matter of the ruling coalition. Unfortunately, the way the government will function is not only a ruling coalition, it is a matter of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only of those who voted for the ruling parties, but also of those who voted for other parties and those who did not go to the elections. I think because of this law, if it remains in this form, the citizens will have one inefficient, massive government that lacks the ministries that, by nature, things must be. There are several ministries that are the same or similar part of the work. The same remark applies to the third law on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Law on the basis of the regulation of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that this law is being changed because specific people from certain parties may come to the places they wish to come. Another general remark, the Ministry's Law completely denies the powers of the AP Vojvodina and the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, ignoring the existence of any of its responsibilities. I think all the reasons I have stated are enough to answer the question why the LSV parliamentary group will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u154	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. A representative of the LDP parliamentary club, Mr. Bojan Djuric, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u155	Dear President, Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this is one of the most chaotic days in Serbia's recent parliamentary history. Competition is fierce, given how governments or ruling coalitions have started over the past few years. Today we had the afternoon start of a session, board sessions that practically run continuously, some sessions that weren't even invited by all the members. Let's just trust that in a few days, you'll be organized better. On the other hand, it is very unusual and the way they come before this Parliament two or three laws that should actually define both composition and priorities and the way the future government will work. Mrs. Tabakovic, at one point you said, I hope I quote you correctly, there is no shame when the change comes back for him to count. I agree with you and in terms of control, but we have here today two laws or one law which is essentially your coalition agreement, it's the Ministry Act and something that is political change in that section of prey, which is an amendment, as you say, to the technical amendment of the law dealing with security control, that is, this part concerning the counsel of the secretary of the National Security Council. It's actually political change. That's the point where everything that's a big problem in this coalition of yours is being broken at the very beginning. That's why you have a very strange situation to explain these laws, to try to announce to us all the time an exclusive speech from the candidate, or the prime minister, the future prime minister for tomorrow or Friday. That's not enough for this House. You can't hold us for two or three days by dealing with cosmetic changes to the law or by commenting only on the parts of the intervening legislation that you believe to be in favor of or that it will please the citizens or those rare citizens who probably still have the strength to watch this session of the assembly without neglecting some big and essential things. I had a dilemma as to whether I should start with this Security Service Act or the Ministry Act. I'll start with this first law. You have suggested something called technical change, in the sense that if this bill of yours is passed, I expect for an amendment that I hear will be submitted, practically the President of the Republic, to have a whole new jurisdiction, to appoint the Secretary of the National Security Council. Yes, it is a fundamentally brand-new jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. Yes, it is a fundamentally brand-new jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Your replica will probably be that's how it was in the current system of government. It was, but I mean, yesterday we talked about it, you shouldn't follow the worst examples. At the same time, I find it simply fascinating that fascination with the security services of every new government or partly new government that is trying to take control of the state apparatus, including that part of the state apparatus in Serbia. It is obvious that you too are very insistent on this, yet I would say in the end, the delusions that exist about the power of these services and its almost unlimited ability to abuse it in political life. However, I must warn you that by proposing such an amendment to the law, you forgot that something else happened in the meantime. As you know, the Constitutional Court of Serbia, at the moment it became clear that you were forming a new government, or a new ruling majority, had begun working in three shifts, and had made a whole series of new decisions. One of these decisions of the Constitutional Court states that the establishment of the National Infrastructure Council is against the constitution. That decision of the Constitutional Court, argument, the way the Constitutional Court is resonated in that decision is absolutely applicable also to the case of this law, which you are proposing today, or for the National Security Council. What does the Constitutional Court say when it talks about it, why is the National Infrastructure Council unconstitutional? Therefore, according to the Court of Justice of the President of the Republic, only the Constitution, as the highest-ranked law of the Republic of Serbia, can be established in contrast to the authority of the National Assembly and the authority of the Government, which, in addition to the explicitly mentioned tasks, can carry out other tasks under the Constitution and law. It is not disputed that the powers of the President of the Republic can be developed by law, but they cannot possibly be extended. You are directly extending the existing constitutional jurisdiction of the President of the Republic by means of a bill of law. Find the basis for me in the Constitution of Serbia, which is now in force, which you have set and adopted together, find me the basis for the authority of the President of the Republic to appoint him secretary of this council. Let's not talk about what these issues are in virtually exclusive government intelligence, except in that part, which is a legal arrangement, which is covered by the National Assembly. Therefore, such a change of law will certainly fall in the constitutionality assessment procedure before the Constitutional Court. I have a proposal for you right now. Do you agree that if the law is passed he will go to previous constitutional control before the Constitutional Court? So in that period before he is declared, that is, before he enters into force. I see you're laughing, Mrs. Tabakovic, a lot of such smiles have been from this part of the hall in the past four years, now the situation has turned. So, on the general level, I think that's what I've proven to be an anti-constitutional provision. On the other hand, since you obviously intend to pass this law, we have gone one step further and we have proposed an interdepartment. If you want to change the law this way, then let's put it into law and some special criteria. Who can be appointed to this very important position? We think it would be okay, say, that there is a ban on membership in a political party for a person who will be a candidate, or who will be the future secretary of the council. I think it will certainly help to remove those suspicions that say that security services are highly politicized with us, that they are under party control, that they are used in interparty accounts and generally in party life. The second part of the amendment we submitted to this article says it would be good to say that there is an explicit ban on the conflict of jurisdiction. Therefore, that the Secretary of the National Council cannot be a person who simultaneously performs another public function. If you're in the mood to build a different security system, a system with effective control of these services, then I think it's just normal for you to accept those amendments. If such a proposal is the result of President Nikolic's newly elected stance, who is dissatisfied with the content of what he received from the security service, as a report, so he generously offered it to the opposition, then this is a completely wrong path. I don't know if the Constitutional Court will have the strength to bring this down in three, six months, or only once you lose power, but I'm pretty sure it'll have to. Not to mention this particular problem, that in this law only does not write the name of a man who will be appointed to that function. There weren't many examples. You know, this past government even made some kind of general norm, so it was called the Chief of Staff of the President of the Republic. You are about to write Mr. Vukic's name in this bill and propose a biography, along with the proposal you submitted. The amendment is in the process. Your relationship with him, not only your relationship, the relationship of all parties that will make up the future ruling coalition in many ways will mark your government's political path in the coming period. As for the Ministry Act, I didn't expect you to keep the promises you made a year or a year and a half ago, and in that sense, you, I must admit, were quite honest when you were talking here today. You've actually told us that the fact that this number for five ministries seems to me, in the end, different from your initial proposal from 12 ministries, is actually the result of your ambition to have as wide a ruling coalition as possible. You have pointed out as a special quality of the future ruling coalition, that it will have 140 or 150 MPs, but you know it is not the purpose of parliamentary life, and then the executive authorities, that it includes all 250 MPs, or which extends the circle of parties. I think you're also that lesson about how this artificial creation of false stability is actually bad, you could also learn from the previous government. You've obviously gone absolutely the same way and you can simply see it in this list of ministries. Somewhere out of 13, 14 ministries, it's clear that these are the ministries that are in the last stages of these inter-party talks, which you quote very extensively here. I must tell you that they are not of particular importance to the MPs in this assembly, nor to the citizens of Serbia. So, what you've been agreeing on is how wonderfully you've worked together, how you managed to make a wonderful government, we'll be judging from Friday or Monday. There's no need for you to fascinate us here with these friendships and harmonic relations, with those responsibilities that you've transferred from one ministry to another. So, this proposal for a law on ministries does not show any political logic, in which way you want to reform the state. You yourself said that the description and affairs of the ministries, what is the essence of this law, except for this member of the 2nd that says which ministries have not changed much. You have not deviated from this approach that operates solely by the number and name of the ministries, and below that in the structure of the state administration, which is still far from being a public administration in this country, nothing really changes. One thing you're trying to change, and you're doing it the worst way possible. The LDP has submitted an amendment to Article 38 of this Act. Which I think is just catastrophic. You give these laws express authority to the government, absolutely against the law. I'd say it's against the constitution. That, in his own opinion, it's practically completely arbitrary, it replaces people who are in certain positions and sets up, what's called, the performer of duty. That's really amazing. Of course, I agree that the state of the state administration in Serbia is completely catastrophic, that it is a position of nepotism, party staffing, party employment. In many segments of sloth, slowness, inefficiencies of the worst kind. You can't solve this serious problem in this way, with an axe, and again in a few months, as a state or as a government, in the problem that in the courts of all these people, you're obviously planning to cut into the state administration to get you and to get the taxpayers or pay the damages to them or that you have to get them back to work, so that we get to the municipal administration situation in Leskovec very quickly, where it comes 15 minutes before the start of working time because it's the only way that those officers who arrive first really and sit down. Because there are more officials than available chairs in the municipality or municipal administration building. So that's not the point. The point is, you have to try to create a beginning, at least an impression, and then you have to do something concrete. About the state service being no longer the most attractive interest or job in this country, giving the private sector the opportunity to develop, to allow competition, to combat monopolies, to Europeanise the country, to simply open a normal market where people will compete and where in some way engagement in the state administration, especially in those medium or lower positions, are actually the last choice, especially young people who are trying to find a job. Instead, you are this principle, this expectation that now, as a partially new government, you will replace a vast portion of the state apparatus to perfect the provision at the end of the law, almost, in transitional and final provisions. Where are the criteria for something like that? Your only criterion you're talking about in the law says – if not, I don't know what the exact formulation is, satisfied the needs of the job. That's what the minister's on about. Therefore, the official in office did not achieve results in his work. You know, there are other laws in this country, some other legal regulations. There's a system of criteria. Come on, if you don't want this Secretary of the National Council to set criteria, although I think some of them, Mr. Vukic, could meet, then at least put some criteria here when you want to crash the system of state administration. What do you think the average citizen of Serbia or the viewer of this transmission is thinking at this point? In what departments, in which sectors will the state administration be cutting down these personnel? Only in those in which part of these footage came from DS, or on a DS proposal, does it seem to you either be established or unfounded that they have anything to do with DS. In those sectors run by the SPS, G17 plus, i.e. the URS, PUPS and some other parties, this will certainly not happen. Or deny us. Come here in three months before this parliament with lists, biographies and results of these people's work, I agree in advance, and I will apologize to you if I was wrong today. You know perfectly well that will happen. The atmosphere is already visible at the very beginning of the work of this congregation. In some other solutions, we have submitted a whole series of amendments. I agree with this argument, which is related to the part, that is, those sectors dealing with human rights. We have submitted amendments that should partially extend not only the name but also the work of the Ministry of Justice, which should be the Ministry of Justice, Human and Minority Rights and Public Administration. Some amendments are made by the Ministry of Finance, at the Ministry of Labour, but my colleagues will talk about it in the follow-up here. I would like the prime minister, the future prime minister, to address this parliament at the very beginning today. I think it's very important, if you're already saying that this government won't function the same way that the previous one worked, or that the coalition won't function in that way, that you try it in some way and show this Parliament. The law still explains a political party that will not have the greatest responsibility. You are the future prime minister and you will suffer political damage, or collect political benefits from the results of such laws. That's why I said this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u156	The word has a representative of the proposal, Dr. Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u157	Each of us MPs chooses an approach depending on what impression he wants to make of the citizens – whether it's funny, seriousness, the desire to intimidate someone, but I'm concerned most about what you tried to end up with, and that's scaring citizens that there will be cuts of employees in the state administration. How many civil servants do you think there are in a position that, if they do not perform in a period of time, even a deadline, can fall under this liability provision? As a right, I don't know how much you know, but in public administration, public companies have plans of work being entered into the electronic database. There's a three-month performance assessment that fills in, gives the worker an insight and meets her. On the basis of this and such an assessment, which also stands in printed form in the database, is appreciated by one's performance in business. Saying he's gonna do it with a stick and a rope of a new government, he's more about your right not to believe, that you doubt in advance, and that's not questionable. But to be in a place like this that's going to come up with a cut of personnel, to fire people, just doesn't fit the truth. I don't want to judge why it's done. You may not love someone, you may disagree with their option, but you must never be disturbed by the good spirit of cooperation of others, as I commended Mr. Dacic. Because modern achievements in the economy and measuring resources say that there is not enough resources on planet Earth, that competence and competition create two other, two huge telecommunications companies with infrastructure, but that coordination and co-operation, all resources that are non-renewable, and for Serbia are time and people, are used in the best way, not to conflict with each other, or in a fight as they co-operate, or at the moment when they adopt a new law on ministries, and they need to make a government for Serbian citizens, and not a ruling coalition, that you encourage a spirit that is not exactly a spirit of co-operation, but it is a distraction because they are personal impressions. Yes, each of us is very personal because they're all human. Whoever hides emotions in politics isn't a good politician to me. I may not have measured it, but in politics, Mr. Djuric, there are inadmissible anger, hatred, envy and vengefulness, but not just in politics. None of these qualities are desirable on any business or on any team. Co-operation, tolerance, a desire to commend the other, to encourage it to be honest, that's something we need through. I didn't want to comment on it, but I'm sorry that Mrs. Elvira has concluded her exposure to it -- there are things I'm criticizing, there are those I'd like to commend, but I'm an opposition and, you know, I have to vote against. The same definition I have often had to give such an answer to those who tell me – why do you vote against any law that may be good in the Assembly? I say - because in the state of Serbia, trenches between the opposition and the government are dug as if we were not the same people and as if we were not living in a state of Serbia. We need criticism, we need whistles, we need fans, we need both you and us, but we also need citizens of Serbia who will hear the truth, which can only differ in shades from your or my approach as you declare it. You can't say that the secretary of the national security body is now elected in another way, if the president has appointed him chief of staff, and now we call him Secretary. It just doesn't suit the truth. You know, I read a text that was very interesting – the president has no one to control. It may have happened after seven, eight days since the election of the new president, or since the announcement of the results. One smart man who wrote this text on an electronic website said whether or not he had the president to control is not a question today, it's a question of who created such circumstances. It is a question for us to change what is not good, that there will be no concentration of the government, but you can't in the formulation of the Chief of Staff, or the Secretary, to carry out a fundamental and different way of choosing this man who deals with national security and to call it getting unconstitutional powers for the newly elected president. I think you remember that I said here that some organs are being paid not to do their job. When we talked about the Constitutional Court and the different way of paying the Constitutional Court, and their co-workers paid by the Government, and the Constitutional Court is funded, I mean the judges, in another way, we said that it was not good, because the Constitutional Court is funded and given the privilege of not assessing constitutionality and legality. You've heard a part of my discussion. Our desire to strengthen the Legislative Secretariat, where the consistency of the legal system and the constitutionality of the law will be provided in a building in Germany. Until he gets here, this is a proposal from the MPs. This was not done in that secretariat of legislation, yet I am convinced that one who does not want to read Article 138. The constitution, and yet doubts whether it is the patron of the citizens in this category of holders of delegated powers, will not read it. The citizen's protector is an independent state body and he does not fall under these assets that the government puts in order. We're open to co-operation, to your court, to criticism. Maybe we were thinking something good, and we had a bad formula. We are prepared to make it better here, to have the law in place and to be the best, but we are not really ready to agree that something that absolutely does not change the essence of one Security Service Act, you call unconstitutional powers of the president, or you call it artificial creation of ministries that exist in this form years ago. What we owe ourselves and others is, first of all, the fact and the truth. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Mr. Djuric, was that a replica? Mr. Djuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u159	I listened to you carefully, perhaps even more carefully than in your first address. I didn't realize what this illusion or persuasion of texts about how the president had no one to control so far. I understand if it's an ambition to explain to me that this is a way for the President of the Republic to have control and that controller to be Alexander Vukic. Then say it like that. It's a legitimate thing and it's a matter of relations in your political party until the moment you break the Constitution. I must tell you that Mr. Nikolic has been regularly elected president in these elections, and he, in that sense, has the right to count on a certain kind of protection, including freedom to be free of that kind of control or pressure. In one part of the story you were saying, it almost looked like unpartial pluralism, where we're all helping each other. I suggest you help and encourage Mr. Shoskovic first, if you don't think he's doing well, that he does his job better. I didn't make it up that you're creating an atmosphere where it's going to be cut. Before the start of your mandate, you create in Serbia an atmosphere to relieve the governor of the National Bank, in a very vague procedure and in a very vague manner. Then what do these officers think in position and those officers under them? What fate awaits them when Governor Šoštic, at one point, can truly feel some sort of fear that you will try to replace him. I'm not talking about you at all personally, I'm not getting into who would be a better governor, but if you had public calls, first threats, then calls to resign and then you expect the public to be calm and accuse me of scaring people. People won't be scared. People aren't afraid that someone's gonna get cut off from the state administration. People look forward to it, because you've all created such an atmosphere together, that the biggest shame in this country is to work fair and quality for the country. You created this atmosphere of anarchism. That's what an election campaign almost all parties looked like. (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u160	The word has a representative of the promoter, Dr. Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u161	I'll keep my grades to myself. I'll just ask you one more time. Did you really not understand what the title of the text means? The president has no one to control the moment Mr Nikolic was elected, and no law regarding the secret service, data protection, the way the National Security Council works. Let me explain, since the gentleman didn't understand. So, the legislation that treats that area as found, as unchanged, brought in in the previous period, tells us that someone thinks that the president doesn't have anyone to control. Everything else you've been saying is in the domain of a joke, maybe a funny side, jokes, where it's already being published, I don't have time to read it. I supported Mr. Šoškovic very openly for something called avoidance of euroisation, Mr. Djelic is a witness, something that means dinarisation, that Serbia does not have enough foreign exchanges to return loans in euros and return interest in euros and everything else, if there is no export and profits in dinars and that its monetary policy measures and instruments are not visible because they refer to dinars, and we have a country with euroisation. Every good measure of each, and you and any civil servant, I will very publicly and specifically and decadently support you. You know what the reason for my happiness is so I can say it? Which I am a member of a party in which I can speak my opinion openly, because my expertise and the right to say so is not questionable for political reasons. However, do not frighten the people that there will be layoffs. Officers in office, if they don't work properly, they'll be able to drop out, I told you a system to evaluate it, but for the excess civil servants at all levels, there will be quick response offices that those officers, who don't work or don't have a real job, will finally get a job to register what is a public property, to shorten the process of bringing investors who will end their jobs here on the counter, and not somewhere behind some closed doors, and we promise that Serbian citizens will have jobs and that the salaries they receive will actually earn. Don't talk about the law we're proposing here, no matter how political we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u162	Mr. Djuric, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u163	Of course, it's perfectly legitimate for us to differ politically. (President: I'm sorry, Mr. Djuric, I'd just like to ask all the MPs, so we don't get into a situation to deal with replicas, to deal with the topic of the agenda and to address the entire National Assembly. Thank you. Just give me back my time, please. Of course, it is legitimate to differ, Mrs Tabakovic, politically and in any other way. If I may sum up this part of the debate. You're saying Governor Soskic won't be replaced. Is that a promise from your ruling coalition? If you want to replace Governor Shoskovic, that's not the problem. Just implement the legal procedure that exists. I'm just saying that the governor and anyone else don't switch over the papers. The second thing you said actually means that in Serbia there will be more civil servants when you implement this law, because the places of those who are not fit will be the new ones that will be perfect, and those you move, they will go to the fast-track offices, which is an amazing ad hoc solution, which I don't know how you think you're going to introduce into the legal order of Serbia, and then these highly motivated people, who you've previously removed from these positions, will help citizens and investors solve problems in the fastest possible way. So, people who are unable to carry out their regular obligations in a valid way, as you say, you will give them a kind of super power, since the office of quick answers means making decisions in a much faster way and with much greater powers, than the whole system of state administration that, by the way, a citizen or anyone who comes into that system, has to pass. Our differences are, of course, legitimate. One of them is what you consider to be, apparently, a member of the party. I consider myself a member of the party. I think there's a serious difference at that level, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u164	Thank you. Mrs. Elvira Kovac had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Elvira Kovac: Replica. Then I apologize. Mrs. Tabakovic, then Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u165	Mr. Đurić, I've worked at school for about seven, eight years at the age of three and four years of targeted education and believe that I've been able to make myself very clear with them, but your way of finding out, the questions you're asking, the guarantees you're looking for, the topics you're opening, go beyond my experience and abilities, and I will no longer answer your questions of this kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u166	Thank you. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, a proposing representative shall be given a word when requested and only a breach of the Rules of Procedure may take precedence. Therefore, the proposing representative always gets the floor when requested and during the general debate, there is no limit to the duration of the debate. Mrs. Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u167	The legislator mentioned my name and last name directly 15 minutes ago in one of his answers to Mr. Djuric, so that's why I have the right to reply. Mrs. Tabakovic, I have been explaining and criticising this bill for 17 minutes. I've emphasized the importance of several times, especially the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the administration. I may have praised part of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is not related to the trade, but you took it from the previous government, all of those administrations. I criticized half of your proposed ministries, said they were illogically connected, and you told me in your answer that's because one coalition partner should get in line with its strength, which means you agree that telecommunications should not be with foreign and internal trade. In the end, I may have said that as an opposition, we can't support this law, but I also said because of everything I've explained in the past few minutes. I want to make things clear. In 2007, we were in opposition and voted for Oliver Dulic. In 2008, we were in position and voted for Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Yesterday we voted for the President of Parliament, but that doesn't mean we'll vote for anything. We're the opposition, and we think this law is bad and we won't support it. If you have any draft laws that will be good, good, which will help us on our way to the EU, then it is possible. But what the debate has now opened, it's a nebulist that I haven't even had time to talk about. This article 38, which you're actually allowing yourself to change state secretaries if they weren't good enough, is just an even stronger argument for us to be against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word came from Dr Slobodan Samardzic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u169	Dear MPs, respected members of the presidency, we have three laws or a bill ahead of us. In my speech, I will refer to the Ministry Act, for the simple reason that these first two laws regulate only one thing in terms of complementarity or change. As important as they are at first sight, I don't want to waste any time around it, even though there's something to be said about it. However, I would concentrate my time on the ministry law, a team before this law is in any way related to the coalition agreement. In contrast to these other two laws, you can see in it a link to the coalition agreement, i.e. with the Agreement on the political objectives of the parties forming this ruling coalition. The first intention announced politically is to reduce the number of ministries and thus achieve some rationality and certain savings, which is good intentions, of course. But that man has to be completely real and objective. Namely, one is the Ministry, the other is the Resors. Resora is always more than the ministries. Someone mentioned it, it seems to me that it was a colleague of Kovac, that the Hungarian government today has eight ministries. I didn't know that. But I do know that the Swiss government has been seven ministries for 150 years, which doesn't mean it has seven resistors. Resora has as many areas and activities as she manages and can be 25, 30. So, it's about how to concentrate those reactors in the most rational way, and the Swiss case shows that it's possible within the seven ministries. It seems to me that this intention of yours was that the large number of jobs that the government has naturally reduced to a smaller number of ministries compared to the previous goods, but was not well done. I'll give you a few examples, even though the predecessors spoke. I'll see that because of the weather and the fact that we don't repeat ourselves I don't repeat these cases, but there are a lot of cases like this. First of all, I'd like to mention the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government. This is a ministry with two objective resolutions, but there was no need to create a ministry for these two resolutions. They're highly artificially connected. Two resors that are completely mutually and contentally separate, independent of each other, and one artificial ministry has been created. So I'm not saying that we shouldn't have regional development and local self-government, God forbid, these are the things that the state has to deal with, or government, but to make a ministry out of those two resistors, that's a little bit weird. In fact, we all know the history of this ministry, and this whole intention to regionalise the state, to affirm regional policy as a policy of regional development, as a very important area of state policy, to bring it together with a policy of decentralisation and local self-government. It's all very well known, but it doesn't mean that we have to make a combination like this that's going to work very hard. In fact, it would be quite normal for regional development as part of the general development policy to go to the Ministry of Economy, as an economic development, because regional development is part of economic development. The local self-government should go to the Ministry of Public Administration, the state administration and local self-government, as it has been so far. My colleague Markovic is not here and I don't know what he thinks about it since he ran that ministry. So, a whole part of one public administration complex called local self-government is completely separate from that natural part and dedicated to one other ministry, one other relationship, such as regional development. Development policy as an economic policy and local self-government as the administration of one state is simply difficult to go with each other, as I said, before two other resolutions are separated from business of economic development and public administration and joined into one artificial ministry. After all, the termology used in this text speaks a lot about it. For example, in Article 7. – The Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government, you have the expression that one of the tasks is the system of local self-government and territorial autonomy. Look, it's the concept of state administration. There's no reason to build a new ministry. In Article 10, where you're talking about the Department of Justice and the State Administration, you're talking about the system of state administration. Without local self-government, there is no system of state administration. So you're making a really violent cut in a traditional resort and a traditional ministry of all the governments that existed in the last decade, hundreds of years. This is something that is unsustainable and will be very difficult in the governing sense that it works. There are such examples yet, but I don't want to stick around, because there are more important things I'd like to talk about about in this law. We have the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade, someone rightly said it was the Ministry of Trade and that it couldn't be separated from each other and telecommunications. You have a trade and information society. Simply, according to the paragraphs of that member, it's very difficult to connect things. Like you have the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environment Protection, etc. You have several of these very difficult formations, new compounds, which are really innovations in the system of state administration and we really don't believe in these innovations. I think it's better to stick to those traditional ministries and unite similar affairs within the resources, within a single ministry. What may be an important part of this law, politically speaking, is that article 37, which is really a great deal of attention. It says that some of the jobs previously conducted under the ministries will now be transferred to the state service regime. It lists four areas – KiM, diaspora, religion and minority rights. Several colleagues talked about minority rights, about one job that ran out of cover of relevant ministries, including diaspora. The most dramatic question here is KIM and I are really surprised that it was done. You, when you compare the state of minority rights in Serbia, the position of the diaspora of Serbia abroad, the position of religion and religious communities with KIM, is indeed incomparable. Turn-turn, these three things are kind of regulated. Someone might be unhappy. Otherwise, I think that, with human rights, minority rights must go. So, the ministry is exactly the form of administration that would best answer, perhaps diaspora and faith, I wouldn't be getting into it right now, but KiM is really one special question. Even if we don't look at the political side of it, imagine that some Martian descends into the area of KIM, he will see that heads still fly there, that people are killed, that churches are burned, that many things happen that are extremely strange from the point of view of elementary human rights. Now one such thing that should be of particular interest to the state of Serbia, that I do not talk about other things related to KIM, the status of its position within the state administration and the system of ministries is therefore reduced to the level of service or perhaps the office, if so. You see, it's really connected to point 1, that's European integration, as far as it's concerned, to say the hints, I can't argue, what will be and how the government is going to run this business, but I'm talking about a hint of continuity with the policy of the previous government. I must now include European integration, because those with Kosovo and Metohija and our relationship with Kosovo and Metohija are very closely linked. European integration is something this government is going to do very closely, to continue where it cares about and with that technical dialogue, and with other things in the hope of getting that accession date, etc. This is how things are with European integration today for the EU. There is not today, but years ago, at least three, four years of a single condition for Serbia to recognise Kosovo in fact. That's the whole problem. Point 1 of the coalition agreement says Serbia will meet the Copenhagen requirements, that's totally fine, that's something Serbia needs very much. These conditions are clearly defined, they are measurable. Serbia must behave under these conditions, but the thing is forgotten in the EU. The European Union is all the second, third or tenth recognition plan of Kosovo, therefore, in fact, is something that is a condition of conditions. In view of this, we can assess the problem that the government or future government will now face in the way it will solve it, therefore, without this Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Before I go on with it, I'm just going to mention a phenomenon that is related to European integration, which here repeats itself as a chorus in this law. That is, therefore, seven ministries, I have carefully counted them, which use the same phrase in each of the members that regulate the work of the ministry, and that phrase is, among other things, to deal with – creating conditions for access and implementation of projects financed from EU pre-accession funds. Look, you have the same sentence in seven members, in seven ministries, that's really fascinating. Whether someone gave that formula and that formula to everyone you worked on, otherwise it couldn't be exactly the same, or if all seven ministries were to be able to use pre-accession funds and all of those five pre-accession funds components. It's an open dilemma to me now. There's not a word about it. These are therefore the Ministry of Transport, Justice and State Administration, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Education, Science etc., Health, Ministry of Culture and Information and the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government. You see, that is one thing that binds this country in some way to the EU in a normal way. Of course, these funds are dedicated to it and they should be used. However, at this point and already a year ago, it is therefore an objective expectation that was justified several years ago, when there was money in these funds and when they promised for all components of these funds, in a country that has candidate status, an increased inflow of money. Boža Djelic spoke two, three years ago when we become candidates from these funds we'll get 400 million each, we got 196, remember, because we only had two components, so when three of us get 400. Last year we learned somewhere at the end of last year when we were expecting, remember, the candidacy in December, that the money is no longer in the budget until 2013 (six and seven years of budget in the EU), and that we will get as much as we have so far, 196 million, we will get 200. You're in a position to actually make that money, 200 million, now explain it to seven ministries. Otherwise, all seven ministries can use only one component, which is the development of state management capacities and more Regional Development Ministry because the Ministry of Agriculture can use even more relevant components. When you get all this together and put it on paper, you'll see that in a big crowd, one big expectation, one big competition and one natural weak response, the EU or commission simply doesn't have the money for it. I want to show you through this story how much this process of European integration is, which is why we sacrifice Kosovo, how uncertain it is at its most elemental point, and that is that relatively small money for them, of course they give us. By the way, from 14 to 20 years old, the question is, what's going to happen to these funds, we don't know at all, but we're planning for the government's four-year term to get the money, etc. So, all this is becoming unserious, and in particular it is becoming dangerous in the context of this story about Kosovo and Metohija and this lack, this ministry that we find in this law. You see, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija in 2007 was educated out of the need for the state to deal with the issue in a highly concentrated, serious way. There's one more thing that's a political message to the world, which is when the state is ready to establish a ministry and manage one piece of territory, one that it can, which is under international administration. This means that it shows an extremely serious relationship to that space. He's under the UN, he's under the protectorate, but we know and we knew back then that UNMIK and many other foreign teams that were there have been very helpful to temporary institutions to carry part of these UNMIK powers slowly. Whoever followed it knew that the thing was going in some direction of independence, especially since February 2008 when Albanians declared independence, the thing became quite clear. What's left of the state, rather than actually showing that it's able to do and real reality in that space? The whole reality story, this famous category that convinced our politicians that Kosovo must be recognised, because Kosovo is truly independent and that reality is there, etc. is actually a constructive story. That reality story is actually the result of reality. They, therefore, violate Resolution 1244, these declare independence, these bring EULEX and say – that is reality. Your answer as a state cannot be just a legal one, which is our strongest answer, it must be both realistic and we must make reality. We have done so since 2007, with this ministry and previously with the coalition centre, because we have held the administration over certain powers that the state has, education, education, education, health, social policy, telecommunications, local self-government, mass of these things. That is, therefore, the importance of this ministry. Who doesn't see the importance of acting in the direction of convincing the world that we are capable, that we want to have a better political reality, that part of the KIM of Serbia, who doesn't see it, is actually subject to this story of reality that we need to leave the job slowly and turn to European integration. It's an option that we've been testing for the last four years and based on which we have very clear results. So, we lost Kosovo and it sticks to the end of international law, for nothing more. That thread is actually whether the state will admit it. That's one thing. In the EU, as far as these processes are concerned, we have been tampering in place. Excuse me, please, the 2012 candidacy is not the same as the 2001 and 2002 bids. These are completely different categories within the framework of the EU's reality. Therefore, I have tried through these several examples to show how many problems there are, how much damage the state can be, in its national interests, that this ministry can be shut down, and I'm not saying that those other areas of Article 37 should not be introduced into some ministry regime, but I do, of course, focus on Kosovo and Metohija, that it can actually have terrible consequences, that services and offices are not the same as the ministry, that the capacity of the state in operation in that area, which is left to Albanian strategic ambitions, and why we should do so, cannot be the same if you have a ministry and you have a service and that this thing is to correct in the way that we have proposed our amendment. We have four amendments on that thing. We have submitted these amendments and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we may have a better opportunity to explain them. I'm about to end up telling you something else. In fact, I wasn't talking about a member of the 38th Ministry Act, which we also consider important, first of all, because it introduces another kind of discharge from a civil servant, but one that exists in the already existing Civil Service Act. The Law on civil servants clearly indicates how an official can be resolved, not entering the content, will be spoken of by my colleague. All I can say is that this is really "lex posters," that he can't derivate the law that already exists, which he does. So, according to its content solution, this law is contrary to the existing Law on civil servants, and therefore it is unacceptable for us. I'm saying, maybe something more will be said by a colleague from our MP club who talks after me. Our parliamentary club will act according to this law, when it comes to voting, against the majority's attitude towards our amendments. So we have four amendments for Kosovo, one amendment for Article 38, and we will therefore assess whether or not we will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u170	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u171	This was an interesting debate. I hope I don't cause controversy with what I'm about to say. In the first sentence, I'd say these are quite disappointing documents offered by the future government. However, I am limited to saying that we will be able to have a clearer judgment on everything when we hear the prime minister's exposés and when we see the government's composition. Then there will be an opportunity to talk about the government's functioning. Listening to this debate, where there were excellent analyses and speeches, I have come up with one piece of information that in the 19th century, the English Parliament passed a law on the protection of the peoples from the government. That may seem strange, but sometimes it seems to me that the law was very good. I tried to find him. I found it in the history of English civilization. What we have received as a legal text, the Government Act promises to abolish many public office holders, I don't know which or any way, there's no point in talking about it now, except for one intention that can be good or bad, depending on whether many agencies that are allegedly unnecessary, but which came as a result of some pillars of your future government. How they're going to behave, it's not my place to look for answers about it now. What falls into your eyes when you look at the ministries, you see it as in some staged competitions, when someone's already given a place principally or otherwise, and then it just doesn't say whether a division to the left or to the right to comb it to be suitable for him. This is tailored to the staff and appetites of individual factors of future ministers who will enter the government. What amazes many, various combinations of individual ministries, which on the one hand should have created an illusion of self-saving and saving and reducing ministries, but we will see that these combinations express the appetites, desires and preoccupation of individual ministers. As he wills, which minister makes the ministry for himself as he pleases. That's not good, and that's sad, because we're getting closer to that main problem that we're talking about here, about arbitration, about dominating private ambitions and interests, and about suppressing what's kind of a public interest. We, MPs, don't have that executive authority here before. We are in a position to pass laws, but initiatives are mostly governmental. We're trying to fix these texts as much as we can. The second and most important function is government control. For the first two days, they've shown strong resistance to every control. It's dangerous. From the point of view of the development of our freedoms, the development of democracy, there is no democracy anywhere unless there are certain required rights of the opposition to criticise it. You've seen that three main pillars of the government are the Ministry of Military, Ministry of Forces, the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Finance, so, force and money. This is what citizens are interested in, whether parliament makes any sense in doing its control function if by verticals they are simply determined. We were saying that, we even signed against the partization of our time, that it was a terrible feud that was in the previous government, where everyone had their own feud, their own advocacy and where the boss was, that it would change. We have seen that through these three main pillars of power there goes to the boards that they chair, where they have some majority, and now the question is who will control, for example, the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, if he is the finance minister and should remain, but now that you look at that omnibus, which is all the interests of tourism, development of this or that, spa, etc., and it has so many finances and here in the Assembly, so to speak, no one can control it. He can talk, he can talk, but he knows how to decide. It is not good for Mr Dinkic either, but it is not good for the state and it is not good for the Assembly that then loses its basic meaning and content. What can I say about the Ministry of Military who wants to connect to secret services, military, etc.? So all the concentration of power should be there. Someone said that fascination with secret services is really funny to me, because if someone thinks it's a big thing after collecting intrigues or plantings, it doesn't matter who knows what, we're not some big force, so we're gonna hide some big secrets, so I don't know who's gonna spy on us all, etc. It doesn't matter, but if then the vice president of his party is the chairman of a committee that needs to control military force and security. The interior minister is also the police minister, but his vice president will also be there to lead the board, which will control. I have no reason to suspect any of these people that they are not Democrats and that they are not prone to the development of freedom, but the experience of history teaches all the peoples that they need to cultivate mistrust, not trust in power. Confidence is a protection so as not to be deceived, and the people are most often deceived. That's why it seems to me that we are going one wrong way, instead of further development of democracy, human rights, freedom, the security of citizens, in developing complete arbitration, the state as toys, or as that Swedish table, take whoever it wants from it, play with it a little bit and let someone try to narrow us down. We find ourselves as a society in a major crisis to preserve the elements of what is called freedom, democracy, equality, respect and independence of certain institutions. What's most important to people is some security and freedom. If we introduce this arbitration, let the minister come and after forty-five days, he says you haven't been doing well, and what hasn't he done well? He didn't serve the previous minister well. On what basis do they draw conclusions about its value? Then why did we call the competitions, why is there a competition, but to check the quality of a single man? So that's where the problem comes in. It is essential that these societies, which come from some authoritarian societies, are the rule of law, i.e. the reduction or absence of the authority of the law. Corruption can never be contained, if we don't have the rule of law, because whoever bribes, thinks they'll bypass the law, it doesn't matter, so thanks to the bribe, they'll pass. He who receives bribes also participates because he does not respect the law, fails the law. The absence of rule of law is the main generator of every corruption. Corruption on its part bites the whole system of society. If one is added to that, I'd say, traditional flexibility to law enforcement, then we have to seriously imagine if we can even move like a society without it. Please, if we've built seven hundred thousand, illegally, objects, then we have the Law on legalization of illegally erected objects. You can't explain that to anyone what that term means. That means you don't respect the laws. Wherever you have arbitration, arbitrary decision-making, you're threatening the law there right now. I suggested that in the fight against corruption we rely on electronics, so that some programs, software could simply be installed, so that the complaint 150 could not be resolved, unless 149, so that this one couldn't sell building solutions or anything else. Human nature is very corrupt, and caution is necessary to it. That's why there are institutions. This security thing, this whole comedy, who can manage, to see the secrets it's going to be, there's a lot of intrigue, because people want to listen, they're very interested. I can imagine how much of that material this year was, what everyone heard and what they did, but it's absurd. I had a chance to ask the interior minister, Mr. Mihajlovic, to show me the file once. He made a pile this big, that for 50 years all the police, one after the other, who were listening to both the apartment and the car, except I didn't have it in my pockets. There's a lot of nonsense in there, talking my mother-in-law to my friends, because it's all recorded. There's no useful matter here to shut me down for five days, but they could, since I was a good part subversive to the state and shut me down for five years. That's how much these jobs are worth, they're worth nothing. Don't pay for nothing and have such an obsession with them. But what's important to us here -- do we have enough strength and quality in this assembly to defend institutions from any possible will? We don't have to pass the Law on the Protection of Peoples from the Government. Let us try to protect ourselves by controlling them and not allowing any laws like those offered to pass us. If we can't do that, I'm afraid we can't get far. We have the President's exposé. I'll wait for a serious analysis. I only give one appeal to defend rights and democracy. What hit me very hard, which is that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights went down somewhere. That's what we don't ask ourselves, fortunately. There are conventions on human and minority rights that we signed in this room. I boasted that we were the only parliament to unanimously adopt a minority convention. There's no playing with that. You think we'll trick someone, so they won't know, so they'll forgive us. He won't. We're under surveillance. We are running for the EU. There's four eyes on it. There is a European Court. No more self-will, no more games of different passions that will come out on our backs. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. That's one big risk. He wants to come from the international community, start from the Council of Europe to continue to be excluded because of the lack of respect for laws, human rights and respect for institutions, such as parliament, judiciary. That's the key. That's why I'd like the appeal, there's time, two days, to take a good look at the amendments, the prime minister's candidates, to think carefully about his proposal, what he's going to propose, with what guarantees. What seems suspicious to me in the beginning, as if we're going to have two prime ministers, two centres or three centres of power. It should sort of be resolved between them, but we're standing here, defending laws, Parliament, human rights. There are many more young and brave people to join us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u172	Thank you. The word has the president of the SPS, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not, of course, take advantage of the time that has been set aside for our parliamentary group, namely me as head of the SPS Parliament Club. I just want to give a few clues to these topics that are on the agenda. Surely these laws, the Government Act and the Ministry Act, are the most amended laws in the history of any law in the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because we don't have a system-based issue – what is the optimal model that the government should have, how many ministries? Unfortunately, there are no European standards on this either. Because each country, according to its own needs, determines which ministries they need. In Norway, you have the Ministry of Oil or the Ministry of Fisheries. In Germany you have the Ministry of Food, etc. Surely I will not tell any secret that this law has always changed and only when every government of the Republic of Serbia has formed. That's true. Accordingly, I understand the position that there is now a parliamentary majority and that there is a parliamentary opposition. But the fundamental objections to how powers will be shared in the ministries are also dependent on which positions you look at the system of government, whether you participate in the government or you are in opposition. I would not say that the reconstruction of the government, which was last completed, was carried out on a professional basis. Because what professional principle has the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy combined? Of course, and that was the need of that moment. I advocate as a mandate to approach this topic systematically and to discuss this law with cold and calm heads and beyond these moments when the Government of the Republic of Serbia is elected. Also, this law does not address the issue of extra employees. It is a lie to reduce or increase the number of ministries or increase the administration. Only the number of ministers and those serving ministers, or the number of state secretaries, is reduced. It is certainly better not for Serbia to be a recordr of the number of ministries, as it has been in many periods. Also, when it comes to committees, let's go back to this topic. As Minister of the Interior, believe me, I have never disputed the right for the opposition to have the chairman of that committee. You just broke up with him last time. I am sorry that Mr. Micunovic was not the head of the parliamentary club in the past term, he could probably say enough on the subject, as Marko Djurisic suggested that Dusan Bajatovic be chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. You didn't even ask me, and it was Todorovic from the SRS, who was unhappy, who didn't want to schedule sessions, which scheduled sessions in his own way, which led the sessions in his own way. But, please, don't transfer to me now as Home Secretary, something you've already done. He was elected a year ago, he'll continue to be. I'm still the Home Secretary, only you've changed your position. Doesn't mean you have the right to criticise now. In this topic, Mr. Micunovic, you don't. As for other topics, I do not dispute the right to criticise. When it comes to these questions in principle, say what you want. The government will be the smallest government in Serbia's history since 1990. It will have the same number of MPs as the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who was elected in 2004 with 19 members. I'm proud to be, if you choose me as head of such a government. She needs to be effective. It can't be a feudal character, but it's a subject we'll be talking about in a few days. When it comes to all the other areas that you have mentioned today, I am in favour of reforming our political system. I advocate a debate on what political system is best for us. I'm not running away from discussing it. Let us not change our mind depending on whether we are in one position or in another. Let's not make laws when we want to abuse a subject. You know that even in the greatest dictatorships there were the most democratic laws, but the practice was completely different from those laws. I want to promise here on behalf of those who will act on behalf of the Serbian government, that Serbia will build a democratic political system, that this parliament will have that place to have and have under the Constitution as the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, and that the government will respect this parliament. I'll be in Parliament whenever it's necessary. As prime minister, I will not send my envoys here that you have nothing to ask them, because the Prime Minister is not here. When I come as Prime Minister, the ministers who are in charge will come. This government must be effective, responsible and there must be discipline in it. No minister is there a minister for himself, but this is a government chosen on the basis of political programmes of those parties that have received citizens' confidence in the elections. With all due respect, I know that discussions must be held on this subject, I want the Serbian public to know – this government will have 17 ministries, will have 19 members and will, as I said, be the smallest government since 1990, and God will be the most successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u174	Do any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the order of MPs who have applied for a word in the joint principled search. According to the order of applications, MP Zlata Djeric reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the laws that are ahead of us should not only bring about a change of government, a change of policy that should bring to citizens as well as everyday life to Serbia as of tomorrow hope that Serbia's favorite word for pre-election campaigns is "change", indeed possible in everyday life, at last. Yesterday we heard, however, outside the agenda and beyond the agenda theme, the demagogue commenting stories of those who did little or did nothing in the previous period and are now deeply concerned that those others who received the trust of those who lost it, which are citizens of Serbia, will now be no match for the task that citizens have entrusted with with their electoral will. Verbal concern for the well-being of citizens has long become one of the more profitable interests in Serbia, with responsibility for them failing to improve or gather, even if it modestly approaches the euro course, but has devalued as well as the dinar. Yesterday, there were actual memories of a guy-- what anybody said, so he did. They reminded me a lot of something about Branko Copic, who knew how to comment on such words as "I see that everything and his underpants are going to scream." But you didn't come to this, everything was kept on a lot of unpleasant words and wearing dirty laundry to the coalition partners today. Yesterday's day, the way it was, from the point of view of today's day is just a memory. We, like this government, are waiting for a serious job, waiting for serious problems, and citizens are waiting for at least a hint of goodwill that someone will deal with corruption, crime and the launch of the economy. One thing is more than clear – Serbia no longer has time to wait. Serbia cannot wait for an opportunity to live. Life is here now. We will recognize those who have broken the times and hopes of Serbian citizens, just because they will remember all those who once said this and that on TV there, and in some stands and some newspapers said this and that, as if they hadn't said this and that team to the same ones, and as if it were a minor condemnation for some verbally spoken words. It's all subject to court time, court criticism, citizens need concrete acts. In doing so, the absence of self-critism, the willingness to be personally responsible, and even the absence of elemental shame, yesterday was more than frustrating. They can't, today, understand how the citizens in the elections valued someone's work, so they shared their votes on those who once had confidence, now they took it from them, some who were in the government, they trusted it, they doubled it, and they were together in the government, and they turned to some new people who wanted to trust and wanted to see it in action. Those who lose can't stand it, but they have the right to be angry. It certainly won't be easy for the new prime minister, so they started to scare him with their personal skepticism and defetism, although they had confidence in his abilities and his coalition capacities by yesterday. We now need to face each other, but, above all, to face all citizens of Serbia. We'll all have to make an account for them, because they really lose their patience over every incompetence, in front of every vainness, and in front of every verbal concern for their standard and their lives. You know, in one previous campaign, there was a very interesting slogan -- life can't wait. The slogan did not produce the result he promised and, indeed, now Serbia has no time to throw away. We expect this government to be, as Mr. Future Prime Minister said, to be really effective, that with 17 envisioned ministries, it is such that it can respond at all times to all tasks. New Serbia will also give confidence to this parliament. Every criticism is not always bad and all praise is not always good intentions, but we will certainly be there to help both the government and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as we have done so far, constructively and responsibly. So what we expect from this government is that the wise, courageous, effective and responsible management of those problems that she has encountered, to deal with a new one, to bring back to the citizens of Serbia the hope that must have been very much lost in the last few years. Serbia, which currently has half of the unemployed population, half of the modestly employed population or a troubled employee, is in fact Serbia, which is clinically dead. This government is expected to have a serious resuscitation and return of life to Serbia. The new Serbia will certainly give confidence to this government and always call on it to hear the results and responsibility of all the members of the government coming before this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u176	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been all kinds of political announcements, how many ministries this government will have, which will take up its post, and it is obvious that the bill, as well as any previous draft law on ministries, is the result of a political agreement between the parties that will make up the future government of the Republic of Serbia and the assembly majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SPO-DHSS Parliament Club did not participate in this kind of political agreement and should therefore not expect this parliamentary club to vote in favour of these draft laws. Yesterday and today, we both heard from representatives of the government and the opposition all kinds of announcements. We have heard that certain political parties will be a very harsh opposition. We heard from the representatives of the future government that there will be very positive changes in Serbia, and I want to say on behalf of our parliamentary club that we will not be strong or soft opposition, that we will be a reasonable opposition. This means that we will support all those legislative proposals and all decisions of this high home that bring our country closer to faster EU membership, but also to Atlantic integration. I think that probably, in terms of today's conditions where our society is, above all, the expression of political marketing, the reduction of the number of ministries and the SPO itself agrees with the reduction of the number of ministries, but the other part of which is important, as regards the jurisdiction of the ministries and the resolutions that will be covered and the entire social and economic life in the Republic of Serbia should be covered, I think that, by reducing the government itself, it will not be a sign of equality, that the government will be both effective and efficient. What do we expect from the future government? We had after October 5th, first of all, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, who was given the mandate of the citizens to change Serbia positively. That didn't happen. We expect this government to really make positive changes and no negative ones. Once again, for every positive change, you will have our vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u178	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u179	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a responsibility, as a representative of the Roma Party and as the only representative of the national community that is one of the most numerous in Serbia, when we talk about minorities, to answer the question – why we will vote in favour of this Government Act and why this government model is acceptable to us as a function of achieving human and minority rights. We need to be aware that we are at the moment when we have the Manchester, which we did not have at the time when Rasim Ljajic was the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, that we have the Protector of the Citizens whom we did not have then, but that in one institution and another, even though they have been dealing with Roma issues, although they spend a lot of money on these issues, they do not have representatives of the Roma National Community from the EU. The question arises – is the form or essence important? Is it important that we have the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, like Mr. Rasim Ljajic, and that simply, at the time he was before that, without having a representative of the Roma National Community? Is it good to have advice... . (Ivan Andric, from the post: Rasim is with you in the coalition. They say you shouldn't throw it away. Let me finish. You'll hear the answer to that, too. Then, in 2008, the Government formed a Council for Roma Integration, a cosmetically very important body, formally founded, but at the head of the Council, it cannot even be a vice president, because they probably don't deserve to have such a function, so they can hear some things. By contrast, I have received assurances from my coalition partners in the SNS that in the Roma Integration Council, which will exist in this government, and that a serious function will be given to the Roma themselves, who, along with the majority of the people and other national communities, will essentially participate in the development of their policies. It's much more important to make policies together than to have tutors who are headed by some authorities and represent to the international community that they are some protectors of something. We've won confidence, and that's why I vote that the future government will distinguish a few things. One thing is administrative and technical work, and in that sense there will be a secretariat. That's what I'm obliged to tell the voters I'm working with right now, that it's important that the secretariat be an administrative and technical body, not a political center of power. Then, on the one hand, we have one center of political power, on the other hand we have advice as a center of political power, on the third hand we have a national council as a center of political power, and all three of these places are walking one and the same person and he's holding such good in the vasal relationship of the entire national community. There we get an immediate answer to this question, and why it is important to have such a relationship with the officials. I don't understand when a colleague from the LDP says - someone's party comrades will be fired. How can they be fired when there was no party employment? Then what are we talking about? Or was there a party job? Those who glued posters were employed, I'm talking about the Roma national community, who shared packages, and we don't know where those packages were shared in the campaign. It was these people who shared that they were getting to run the Roma integration process at a local level. Let me explain to my colleagues why I'm talking and why I say he's not guilty of the SPS, or Rasim Ljajic, or anyone else in that government. You know very well, if you don't know, here's the first time you've heard, the exclusive right to the Roma had another political party in that government. You couldn't do anything unless you got confirmation or a response from that political party. I'm not saying what political party it is, maybe someone's going to replicate, so they're going to answer and say it themselves -- I'm that person, I'm that political party that did all this in that government. So, Rasim Ljajic, SPS, G 17 plus are acceptable partners to us, because they did not participate, but they had to accept from one other party that condition, not to interfere in their business, because it is a significant electoral body that needs to be served. I hope you recognize who that is. That everything I'm talking about, and I was also talking about, that everything I'm saying isn't mere cosmetics, it's not a big deal, I'm gonna remind you that yesterday he was the deputy ambassador of the European Commission here, that she was the head of Mission of the Council of Europe here, that he was the gentleman who's been leading the issue of Roma integration in Warsaw, and Mr. Deretta knows very well that that smile means supporting me because he worked in the NGO a lot and he's been getting along with us a lot. People made it very clear yesterday that the situation of Roma abuse must be monitored in Serbia, and they certainly did not say that because the new future government is responsible for it. They made it very clear that a database must be formed on the policy of the national strategy, about the Roma. I'm asking, someone who took an exclusive right in the government of the Republic of Serbia to solve the issue, so many years did it take him to do it? What kind of success are we talking about? Mrs Delevic knows best, although she was the least involved in this matter that I am talking about, how many tens of millions of euros have come from the European Commission to resolve this very burning issue. As a conclusion, they do not go to Roma asylum, asylum is being socially threatened from Serbia, and most of all is Roma, which is why the largest number of Roma is in it. That is why we, as a Roma party within the coalition gathered around the SNS, will always stand for socially endangered categories, for their rights and with full confidence that this government, as structured in this law, will truly fight, truly implement that policy that it has promised. Maybe a little less populist formulations in the Government Act and the formation of some large functional bodies, but by doing concrete things, and the concrete thing is next. One government cannot boast that the affirmative measures of the Office for Inclusion in the AP Vojvodina, led by the same political party that I was talking about, have enrolled 200 students with affirmative measures without saying at the same time that it helped only 15 students graduate because they were not created conditions for study. So what kind of politics is this? What's that number-playing thing? We better enroll 40 students and 30 graduates, than 200 graduates and 15 graduates, because greater capital then created Serbia compared to this result that will result from this government, rather than the result achieved by the past government. As far as the Security Service Act is concerned, I have one question. Are you saying that an unfounded law has been passed, that an unfounded law has been given the authority of Boris Tadic to appoint such a structure of power? So, if the Constitutional Court accepts your solution, I'm asking if some people then performed an unauthorized function? You know what this is about. You know how you dealt with your political opponents who didn't want to bend to the blackmails you were doing. If that's the case, and the Constitutional Court does it, then someone has to be fat enough to answer for what he did. If the Constitutional Court does not make such a decision, then it is not about the new authority given to President Nikolic, but rather about the new way of using that authority, so that it can have another width in the appointment of personnel rather than to concentrate the entire power in its cabinet in one hand. You don't have the right to decide, gentlemen, that's what the people in the elections have decided, given the president a term of office. It says here that the president appoints and resolves. If you think he's afraid of individuals in his political party, like some other president blackmailed his party colleagues for the sake of the chair, then you're wrong and you'll be sure to believe it. We, associates and coalition partners of the SNS, will help you in this, unless God lets himself turn into what he was, but I wouldn't be sitting here today if I didn't believe that Tomislav Nikolic was different, we wouldn't give him confidence that he was different and they wouldn't say today that we think he's incapable of treating individuals because his responsibility to what the people gave him requires him to act differently. That's why we're gonna back all the laws. We expect the future prime minister to form a council for Roma integration as soon as possible from the beginning of the government along with his ministers, which we agree that we will make the most important contribution, to continue co-operation with the Office of Inclusion and to achieve what we agreed with international communities a few days ago. It is much better for a million euros to be directed, out of dozens of millions of euros, as we were in government co-operation in 2007 provided a million euros of which 300 students in Vojvodina had a scholarship, had mentors and those people had a good completion of high school, but after that came some other furniture, came from people who settled in institutions and showed that nothing is worth the institution if the wrong people sat in it. I think the point here is the question that we don't have to say much whether there is a ministry, and in this I support Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic's exposure, that it is important that this government is effective, that it has results and that after four years we can say that we have more students than this government, that it is less hungry than this government, that we have more water settlements than in this government and that this government is more involved in the integration of Roma and endangered categories, according to indicators of the results than it was, because we simply can't turn public policies into an "enjio sector" and to satisfy our party interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u180	Thank you. Mr. Deretta's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u181	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm reporting because I've been assigned to agree with Mr. Shain a lot, but I have to say that I disagree much more often with Mr. Shain, and I particularly disagree with his relationship with the law. the formation of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which he has now said here. That wouldn't be a big problem, no matter how well and very well I know about the Roma issue because I am actively involved in it, I have dealt with it, and I will deal with it in the future. The problem is that it also disagrees with the National Council of Roma, which supported an initiative that I will talk about when the time comes, but I just wanted to keep it recorded, that I absolutely do not accept this kind of generalisation and this kind of attribution of only bad qualities and bad results, to someone who deals with one of the most difficult problems in Serbia, which is a question of the situation of Roma. As critical of the last government, I have to say that there are important developments, partly in education, partly in housing, partly in access to educated institutions, but there is certainly much more to be done and I think the best way to do this is to confirm that in a later debate, right through the formation of the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u182	The next word comes from MP Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in short, I would just like to refer to a few points that have already been mentioned in previous presentations. Some of them were mentioned by my colleague Alexandra Jerkov, and first and foremost the Ministry Act. As an opposition, we will not support this ministry law. I would also agree with some of the future authorities that this problem should be approached systematically if we want this government to work effectively, which I think is primarily in the interest of the citizens of this country that some things have to start to change from above to below, and the roof is all the Ministry Act. In the bill of law, you saw that the ministries were very strangely concluded, but they deal with certain actions that they cannot, in my opinion, be the subject of what the central government is dealing with. Some examples are listed, such as bathing sites, such as theme parks, such as ski resorts. I don't think they should be people who work at the ministry. A man who drives warraces or massages at a pool shouldn't be employed by the ministry, and I'm sure there are companies involved in this. We have found several more illogicalities in the text of the proposal for this law, and as regards the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, where it is said that this ministry is engaged – research in nuclear energy, nuclear safety, production and temporary storage of radio-active materials. Also, the Ministry of Energy mentions a nuclear facility aimed at producing electricity, i.e. heat energy, producing the use and disposal of radioactive materials in these facilities. So at some point only if the proposing could explain whether it means we are planning to build nuclear power plants in Serbia. There are some other small details about the Ministry of Telecommunications, Foreign and Internal Trade, which I don't see how one ministry can be. We also cited it in the amendments that we will explain. What is most important to me, which is that ministers who decide on important issues that await them in the next four years, all that they are proposed by Mensa, which they are not, simply do not have the capacity to deal with such a wide range of issues as they are mentioned in these laws. We think that there are places for rationalization and what LSV has always fought so far, which is a system that has been in place for many years in this country, and it's called - bureaucratic centralism, it would have to in some way bear in mind that if we want to go to Europe we have to lower powers and we have to delegate some jobs to lower levels of government, especially local ones, and then to the authorities in the AP. So I don't think this law is on the trail of such activities, but I hope we have an understanding, because as many of the most capable people as they are, they won't be able to deal with the problem that awaits them, because simply no one has the capacity to deal with such spectrum of issues as they are mentioned in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u184	Thank you. The next word was registered by MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic, unfortunately not there. After that, the People's Messenger, Žarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u185	Mr. President, I will briefly say something about the draft law amending the law on the basis of the regulation of the Republic's security service. I am sorry that this short proposal has just opened the problem of solving the way civil security services are controlled. It has already been observed here many times that there is some fascination with these security services, and I have to say that it stems from what is first constantly said about these services at one time, which I hope is finished, and secondly, most people don't know what these services are doing at all. They do not deal with gossip, intrigues and political opponents because in their law, which regulates their work, which I have signed, there is no longer the term "inner enemy". I hope that time is over and I don't know what the "inner enemy" is in political pluralism. There are other tasks, primarily the fight against terrorism, drugs, etc. So it's a big crime. I think it's a very bad bidding, these services, because they have their own Constitution and law-organized work and the only real question of how well they do, and they can primarily assess those in charge of their control. The previous solution was very clear, which is that the president of the state controls it and here one change of one fundamental illogicality is being made, which is that the chief of staff controls it. That's fine, but now it's proposed to be one person. I think it's appropriate that it's said that at least some of the criteria that there is who this person is, but it seems to me that that's the basic thing to say, is that the solution that we have today is essentially bad. Most countries have chosen that civilian control, I know that there is a Security Committee, but I don't know if you know the regulations that regulate its work, they very much limit what MPs can get as information. It is true that it is a good practice in recent years that, for example, BIA's director appears twice a year here in the Assembly and that the report, but it is very limited what MPs are allowed to ask him, I don't know if you know what it looks like or what he can tell them. Most countries have left it either to the government or to the president of the state and there are those solutions, but I think the three-way system is the best, which is that there are several representatives of parliament, MPs, representatives of the government and, of course, the head of state and its representatives. That triple key of control is, in my opinion, the most effective. Just to remind you, the first such body was formed in 2002, it was called the Alliance of State Security, I was a member of it. After that, under Kostunica it was called the National Security Council. Back then, in 2002, we didn't have military security because there was two powers, there was a federal state, a phantom, who had military and foreign affairs. Now it is, of course, united and the Republic of Serbia exists, but it seems to me that you have unearthed one door here that opens another problem. Please, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protector of Human Rights, categorically for a long time, claim that some of the laws adopted by this Assembly last year are contrary to the Constitution and that these solutions violate human rights because of electronic communication. It said that electronic communication was kept for a year. I can understand that it can't be opened without a court order, but we have a paradox that we have security services and the police can, that's one failure, one hole, one hole that they're skillfully playing with, to get the information you called on the phone, without getting into the content. That information is quite enough to get into your privacy. I would ask you and appeal, if you've opened the door here, that something be regulated, that we open it to the end, that maybe we can sort it out differently, and, above all, change a law that I didn't vote for in person last year, or our parliamentary group, which is really somewhere against citizens' rights because it violates their right to privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Korach. Mr. Marjan Rističević signed up for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I don't see one of my senior critics. Coming to this session, I saw one saddled up with rotations and blinkers, everything with a sticker running towards Belgrade, so I believed my colleague was coming to the session. I don't know if it was A5, A6, A7, it looks like it was a turbo diesel. I think if he garages it, it'll take him longer. I'm sorry my colleague rode out, because what I have to say is I have nothing against DS, but I'm against what it is. Those who criticise today and who think they are representatives of the DS should know that they are simply called the party. At the beginning of the presentation, I will quote, and I believe that fellow democratic orientations will be able to understand who I quoted. It says -- there are countries that have everything, natural wealth, gold, ore, diamonds, but they're poor because people don't know how to use it. In the second part of the quote says -- there are countries that have nothing, but they are rich because people know how to organize. I'm going to leave you on your conscience to guess who I quoted, and we're right here to try through these laws to organize a state and to give God and nature everything, and fools took even more, to make that country through an organization a state where everyone will have a fair job, decent pay, a decent home, accessible education and health care and a dignified age. I think to start with, that would be enough. Also, I must express my dissatisfaction with the words and behavior of the government that still exists, which still works and has not left. I think that those who sit in that government still, who I can rightly call the Government of Universal Fall and who he led, at least I think he was leading, although many do not share my opinion with it, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, whom I can rightly call Mirko over-indebted. So this government and the representatives of that government, who are smiling now, have shown unprecedented courage not because... Don't even try to remind me
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u188	I don't want to remind you, Mr. Risticevic, I will allow you to proceed, but I ask you to bear in mind that article 106. The Rules of Procedure say that the MP can only talk about the agenda point. I ask you to express yourselves on the Members of the People with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u189	I was just doing it with all due respect, to everyone according to what he deserved and owed. So, I don't need to remind you that this government is in charge of this people, and when the government is in debt, the people write a note. So, if the government that hasn't gone yet has owed this people and this country eight billion euros and smiled peacefully, I don't believe that I've insulted anyone or that's my intention. I'm telling the truth. If the truth is painful, a team up here for those who smiled here. Now I'll try to talk about the ministries if you'll let me, of course. I'm going to start with the M.O.P. that's the first thing that I believe will work, and that, in this decade, it doesn't say, a lot of its energy and attention to the corruption that was present, we have to agree, in the outgoing government. So that government made the state a partner society. From the ministries, she's done some private business out of public office. I believe we won't do it from any ministry. The second ministry is the Ministry of Finance and Business. I want to believe that Mr Dinkic was right yesterday when he said that because of his relationship with the former government he could not get the full intensity of his work and his efforts. I think it'll prove to us in the future that he wasn't part of the problem and that he was going to show us that he was going to be the solution to that problem. I don't need to remind you that at this point Serbia has a budget deficit of over two billion, that it has a trading deficit of about six billion, that it spends more than it earns six billion. All these are the results of those who smile and who I believe the government and the ministry taken over by Mr Dinkic in the state will at least fix. The State Department. I believe that the new, unlike the old, will listen more to what the National Assembly says and less to what our traditional friends in Sarajevo and Zagreb say and that they will not, listening to the National Assembly, receive all the advice that they come from, no matter where they come from, whether from Brussels, Washington or Moscow. So, at least we'll regain some of the sovereignty we've lost. I also want to say that those who have criticized us here in this Government Act, there are two prime ministers in the Ministry Act, forgot to say that they had a government without a prime minister. Both the president of the republic and the president of the party, most likely the Prime Minister. With full right, I can say that for a little while he was a patriarch, he pushed so much after the death of Patriarch Paul in Patricia. So he was like a vegetarian, meddling in everything, and he didn't do anything. As far as the Department of Defense is concerned, I'd like to say that we're going to fix the situation here, because right now, the Hunting Union is a greater armed force than our army. I think we only had the Ministry of Defense for two reasons: just to have the minister of military and to have the minister of military procurement. He made the army a Pera Crescent family. Just to remind you of the satar saying, "Whoever doesn't feed his army will have someone else's. "To translate, who doesn't have his army in his territory, will have someone else's. The situation is the state of departure of the outgoing defence minister, who has little to do with the buildings. Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government. I believe we will resolve the issue of the Duke, that it will not escalate. I believe that we will address the issue of regionalisation, the issue of oversized municipalities, and that we will succeed in stretching the government by sharing powers and responsibilities, while keeping the country from being shot. I also want to say, on regional development, that there is rural development and that the ministries will all try to prevent the last horseman of the apocalypse who in Serbia each year reaps thirty-five thousand people more than is born. As a result, the villages are relaxed and I don't need to tell you that once a peasant died, a peasant died. Now that the peasant dies, the whole house dies, and often happens when someone in the country dies, the whole village dies, even a smaller village. I believe we can make a more positive step here, too. The Ministry of Traffic, I want to believe that we will no longer be leaving this assembly to have rail traffic as 132. by quality in the world, that we will have better quality roads and that we will not be 130th in the world, that the Ministry of Transport will have modern highways, that we will provide funds for it and that we will not have this many holes on the road. The Department of Building and Urbanism, I believe there will be legalization. I believe we're going to run what Mr. Dulic has stepped on and I don't need to remind you that, apart from the Secretary of Defense, no one has built anything in this country during the time Mr. Dulic led that ministry. I can say with full right that during their term of office they didn't even make the parrot's house right. The Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, I also want to believe that the rule of law implies the rule of law and rules, not the rule of law, that the rule of law means the law of law, not the law of power, as it is today. The judiciary is like that and they left it to us, with a reform, where whoever's more influential and money puts on the scale of the goddess of justice, he won. I rightly expect the Ministry of Justice and Mr Selakovic, if elected minister, to run it in some direction in which it should happen. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, no trade. Why the store was with this ministry you can conclude for yourself. The agriculture ministry was more of a ministry against agriculture and peasants. As the only farmer here, I have a legitimate right to bring it up. We can rightly call agricultural policy against villages and peasants. Just to remind you that the outgoing Minister of Agriculture, only in the last month before the elections, has changed agricultural policy three times. The man who advocates the European Union, for European liquids, does not seem to know that agricultural policy does not change in Europe and that it is long-term and that it only corrects itself every seven years. He also does not know that agricultural policy is based on a high agricultural budget and that EU premiums and subsidies, which he was seeking and his party, were higher by ten times a hectare than those in Serbia. I have to say that the oldest peasants, whose pension was less than social aid, were expelled from that premium and subsidies. So, they were forbidden, at what time they worked, to receive premiums and subsidies, no matter what they produced food, which was punishment, and age was not meant to be. Such a agricultural policy was led by people leaving the ministry. This agricultural policy was more in favour of the sponsors of their parties than it was in favour of the development of villages and agriculture. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, I hope we'll start at the last place in Europe. The Ministry of Energy and the Development of Environmental Protection, I believe that this is not accidentally combined, that through more production, so-called green energy, the environment can be successfully protected, and that energy will be produced, and that we will not be left behind just a wasteland dump. The Ministry of Culture and Information, I believe, will launch some processes to finally see who owns these media. The media during the former, or outgoing, governments weren't under government control, that's one lie. They were owned by certain ministers in the government and I'm sorry they had a fight. If they hadn't had a fight with each other, they could've started one of the books and saved up on it, and just changed like in Radovana the Third, the headers. Finally, to say that the saddest part of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, poverty and misery of our people is also unsustainable to see. We have thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of unemployed. We have a real collapse. There's an unemployed person who comes to one of the employees. The situation in agriculture, the last droughts that no one has said a word and a loss of 4.5, and perhaps 6% of the social product, a loss of a billion and a half to two billion euros per year, will almost make our disaster inevitable. Peasants' pensions today are less than social aid. I'd like this ministry to do everything possible to make them at least equal to the minimum working pension, because peasants and workers are brothers in sweat, brothers in pain. The foreign trade ministry, telecommunications, I believe it will do anything to ensure that we do not trade in favour of foreign trade chains, foreign goods, but that we will do something about it. As for the stock reserves, I would like to say that we will do everything to control that the stock reserves are no longer used in favour of the fat wallets of government members and their close friends, but that they will, above all, be in favour of maintaining price stability, the security of our country from economic pressures, that they will benefit from maintaining parity prices in agricultural products. Finally, to say that I hope that we will all be together, and Serbia is a state in which it is a flag that has been thrown with arnaut hands into the dust and mud. In that state today is the country we take over. I hope that all together we will have the strength to rise as our ancestors, raise and make it a place for a man worthy of life and do everything we can to restore the honor and freedom of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u190	Thank you. The People's MP Dusan Milisavljevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u191	Your Honor, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I, as a professor of the Medical Faculty, was ashamed to attend a tirad tonight, and I ask you, as a young man, as a man I think is a Democrats, who noticed all these disgusting statements by Mr. Rističević, but did not have the courage until the end to give him a warning measure and take away his word. In the day of the vote, I ask you to make a statement to the National Assembly on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u192	If you insist, the National Assembly will make a statement in the voting day on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I would warn you, too, that when you say the word "disgusting", you also violate the Rules of Procedure and treat your predecessor with insult. I just want to tell you, the leading parliament, that I am trying to have enough tolerance, as I warned Mr. Risticevic, because I felt that part of his presentation was certainly not in line with the Rules of Procedure. He later began to speak in his own way, using a specific dictionary on the agenda point. At certain times I may have crossed the border, but I wanted to respect the spirit of some tolerance that we have established, it seems to me in parliament, allowed it to end. So I'm asking you not to always react to every ball. I will try to remind everyone, as you have seen, of an MP who belongs to a majority group that I come from. Next word came from MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the only good thing we've heard now is that under the makeup of Europe, tolerance, we see actual intentions. This is also seen after the committee's presentation and constitution, that for the first time since 2004, for two key committees, where the ruling majority would actually have the control of the opposition and verify its role in a democratic organisation in the National Assembly, for the first time, without any explanation, the opposition was not given to chair these committees and to finance and control the secret services. It is at the end of what remains, and decisions are what remains, declarations and statements are what passes. In the same way, what we've heard shows that in the program of what's being prepared, there's not much ideas, but there's a lot of desire for revenge, there's a lot of desire to deal with those who have worn state policy in years that are now behind us. I'll talk about these laws. Of course DS will not vote for these laws and I will explain for the next few minutes why we have such a position. First of all, if we look at the Ministry Act, there are several elements that are not generally controversial. As for the number of ministries, it's a constant topic. The theme behind which is actually our reality. Our reality is, as this government sees, as all other governments will see after it, and that is that, until the electoral law is changed to some extent, with the power of the mandates that the MPs now have, it is a fluid that no one will bring down or threaten in the future, we will have a lot of large governments, we will have complicated laws on ministries, we will have compromises that the proposings will always be in great trouble to explain them. This is because Serbia needs a dose of the majority system in order for citizens to have greater certainty about what they are voting for in the end becoming a government and becoming a policy. One thing is certain, and that is that no one in Serbia voted in favour of such a government on Djurdevdan, and it is certain that the regrouping we saw was unpredictable. There was an illustration of these views at the beginning of the discussion, at the moment of your election, Mr. President, and that is what will mark the work of this government and, until some elements change, first of all, the electoral law, so will be in the future. In any case, this number of ministries is not the most important thing. It's not true that this is the smallest government, because there are four offices. Nothing's gonna change that, so turn around, we've got about 22-23 ministries. Mr. Vulin himself said that what he's going to run is the same as the ministry. He was honest about it, and he showed that in the organization of the state administration, this thing is not going to change. The second element is that in the organisation of European integration the model of vice presidents with the office is kept. There are other models. This one has shown over the past years, I am speaking from experience, that in this way, we hope that all ministers will be aware that they have a part of the job, that it is not a matter of a specialised ministry, or one person, of a political party, that it is a job that everyone will have to work on. I welcome the return of technological development in the name of the Ministry of Education and Science. Let us not forget that several thousand of our scientists, including the Academy, and two rectors, and the University of Belgrade and Novi Sad, have called for the establishment of a ministry of higher education, science and technological development. We simply hope and hope that this large ministry, because of the huge problems and needs that exist in other elements of our education system, will not neglect what has been started in the years behind us. It's not for a few years, because if we look at the past four-five governments, there have been positive shifts and should continue on that path. Finally, among the more positive things, we think it is a good thing that work, employment and social policies are once again involved. In the previous government, these two topics were separate. That was bad because when the rights on one side were defined, and the budgets for active measures were on the other side, it made it impossible to work. This law and these laws have many drawbacks. I'm going to start with two systemic problems that have already been evoked today, and I think under the makeup, and the predecessor before me quite well illustrated it, see what real intentions are. The real intention is that there is no system that will disable work, accounting with those who do not have the same opinion. How else do you understand the fact that because someone who's been through the competition has been bothering you, it's going to be going to the collapse of a system that, as much as, not just the previous government, but the previous few governments in the last 10 years have tried to establish. I'm sad about that. Not because someone who was a member of my party, or a member of my party, is going to be out of work tomorrow, but because today and from the moment these laws appeared, not a small number of very high-quality personnel, because Serbia has such personnel, and these are not necessarily party people, and there are party people, and not just my parties, who have been permanently defined to work in the state administration, who are supposed to form a corps of what is rarely formed in our country and being welcomed by the EU and many other instances as so-called. our country's administrative capacity. These people who have believed in the past few years that their efforts, work, perfection, passing through a number of exams, are something that will provide their career. Not a political career, but a work like that pillar, an administrative pillar that should survive in independence from what is the political situation in the country, they today see that their efforts have been zero. Suddenly, a minister will appear, unorthodoxly, because so unfortunately he does, with much less professional references than they do and who will have 45 days to decide their fate. How? Of course there are no criteria here. In fact, if we look at the relevant laws that passed the discussion in this high house, we have and we have at least some commissions. Here everything is given in the hands of one politician, who will determine who of the assistants, he likes the director without any criteria to decide whether to be replaced or not, and what is very rare in our legal system, without any right of appeal, the possibility of starting some administrative procedure. It is a small comfort that we all know very well, and it is that they will all be returned to the workplace, only that the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia will have to pay for it, because they have been set up by law, that they have not sinned anywhere in our positive right and, as it has happened not once in the past 12 years, in this way, we will not reduce bureaucracy, but only have the duplication of those who have passed the competitions and those V.D., who as political commissioners. There's no other way to explain it, because they certainly didn't come through some competition that those who wanted to change went through. It's something that undermines the depth of that beginning of trust our state administration had in building a legal order. That is why our call is to delete this member, for the reason that it will look as easy as possible for a few people who may have their eyes pierced, and the sooner and without discussion. We must be aware that this will be on a long-term basis and how it will cost our country. I am convinced that it will cost this new majority, because many people, because not all of them can be set up by political parties, and how they hesitate to work, and how they hesitate to work on the instructions given to them by these politicians, because they see that it is enough for a new majority to come and change the rules of the game, that without any process and without any procedure they will be replaced. The second element that I think the proposer is not aware is that he is trying to go against something that is one of the European flows. It may not be properly implemented in any case, which is that the ministries do not decide everything, that ministers do not decide everything and that there are certain public powers. If someone thinks someone in an agency is overpaid, then it is necessary to amend the parent law and regulations that regulate that matter. That's our commitment, too. If someone thinks that an agency has cut too many tariffs, there is a document that has been passed by the Government, there are laws that regulate the adoption of such tariffs and that should treat these problems, and not in this way, because in this way, which will allow the Government, simply overnight, to abolish the decision, to abolish the tariff, to abolish the way in which the now important way of functioning in one part of our society is done, in fact, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will lead to increased legal uncertainty, because not a small number of these public powers are actually being implemented in the domain of economy and economy, all those who have to work and operate with these parts of our country, after voting one such provision, which does not foresee even the criteria under which the Government will abolish something, will not know whether they are operating under the law, will not have the safety of what they have determined, or those costs they expect, which will be stable. In this way, behind a declarative push for the rule of law, through these two major systemic attacks on one system that is being built tirelessly, I agree with that, and one is the professionalization of the state administration, and on the other hand it is the functioning of the state, primarily in terms of economy, this is a few steps backwards. This will reverse the way our country works. If anyone gets in the way, tell them who's in the way and why it bothers you. If anyone is corrupt, let them be processed. If someone does not work professionally, there are laws by which this person can be removed and disciplinary measures will be against it determined, but not in this way. This is one way that overnight devalues all the efforts of a number of quality people, some of the highest quality in our national administration, not to mention legal certainty. When we talk about the Ministry Act, it is obvious that, or negotiating power, blackmailing capacity, as you wish, is clearly seen through this structure of the government that is proposed. We have the Ministry of Finance and Business, I personally served as Minister of Finance and Economy, but not the economy. It was a matter of the economy in a systematic sense, because the economy, knowing the difficulties in our country are present, has also become permanent and full-time and most valuable and most energetic ministers today. A ministry like this is hard to cover. I know that my colleague Dinkic was a minister for both and for each other, and that he grouped all these things, and I see that he also deals with staffing at the National Bank of Serbia, and not only the governor, but also the governor's jokes, and that there are estimates of who's good and who's bad, and there's no such thing as his authority, but it's known by the law how it's being dealt with and how it's assessed. On the other hand, we've got a trinket, a trinketing of two ministries that have now become four. We have ministries dealing with similar topics, construction, urbanism, traffic, and then we have the preservation of natural resources, the environment, and then the development of these economic resources. I have to say, it's very difficult to understand what this minister is going to do, because with the exception of mining, all the other authorities are in some other ministries. If it was necessary to find a place for someone, I believe there were more elegant ways. I want to say, at the same time, that some areas have very little to do with each other. Internal and foreign trade in telecommunications, they don't have much to do with it. Will focus be given and will Rasim Ljajic be the one to introduce electronic trade in our country? I see it as one thing that can possibly bring those two resistors together. On the other hand, I don't see a change in the structure of the Ministry of Finance and Business, so, for example, economic diplomacy, which was still in the current government at the Ministry of Economy, is something that, by some logic, should belong to this ministry. Will the Minister of Internal and Foreign Trade be at his disposal and that economic diplomacy or will he have to build his parallel structure, because how else do we increase our exports? We're not going to double those economic emissaries that exist for over two years, are we? If we look at, finally, the way we deal with something that is local self-government, always popular among ministers, we see that at least two ministries have the responsibility to deal with local infrastructure. It's obvious a overlap between the Department of Construction and the Ministry of Local Self-Government. These are similar topics, and if the promoter can explain to you – how they will share that information, we would be very grateful to you for that. Finally, I want to say, since the truth is, even on seven occasions, that is what my colleague Samardzic noticed, pre-accession funds are mentioned, as regards the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, what was written about pre-accession EU funds is in direct conflict with what our Government has handed over to the European Commission as a certification package for the acquisition of these three additional components. It's collapsing with what was built as the finance ministry's system. If it goes unaltered in the Ministry Act, I can tell you that this will make it difficult to increase the receipt of pre-accession funds to our country, because it conflicts with principles that have already been discussed with the European Commission for three years and allow, instead of having a number of functions centralised in the Ministry of Finance, as it must be and we have had exhaustive talks with them, to be located in that ministry. Perhaps other members of your future coalition have not understood, but the future minister of regional development, as this is written, will fully control the third component, which is contrary to EU rules, and probably not entirely your intensity, but we will let you handle it in your future discussions. In the end, I want to say, as far as DS, we and through these laws are concerned, the fact is that the government is also trying in this home to avoid control through what has been given for eight years, as committees led by the opposition. The fact is he's trying to go against the systems we've been building together, because he criticized the predecessors, not realizing that most of the people he criticized will be sitting with his coalition partners in the government in a few days. These are the systemic changes that are introduced in this way and that will significantly reverse the way our country works. Therefore, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the DS will not and cannot support these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u194	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Dr. Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u195	I wouldn't comment on much, but I really need these exchange criteria or, let me say, a way to get rid of people, as Mr. Djelic says. A lot of money has been invested, he says, for schooling some. I ask him – where did he come from in public competition or qualifications to be a minister here and it took a long time? For a long time, he taught us that one – if you are smart, why are you not rich? It is one of his statements most insulting, and one of the laws that was passed when Mr Djelic returned after the establishment of Alpis Capital and Alpis Investment, which falsely represented the investment and consulting bank, which had no open or jury accounts when he charged counselling in the economy of Serbia, says that you then passed the Law on Government when you set up the government, where you said that a member of the government could not do a job that was in conflict with its basic function. It was a laugh in the face of Serbia's public and an act of Article 162 of the Treaty of Competition clause, where a paintseller and bows cannot go and work within six months to another paint store, if he brings with him a list of those who bought colors and bows in the store, because he abuses privileged information. Today, when, with the formation of a new government, we adopt a government law, where the number of agencies and other organisations, which we don't even know how much it is, not just us as someone who was an opposition yesterday, but who doesn't even know how many of these and such bodies and organisations, and who we're trying to put under the hat of the state, the republican budget and all the rest of them, you dare to talk about a member who predicts that a senior civil servant in a position that hasn't achieved his job, which can be replaced, is now in a way that I don't know what kind of position. Who made the decision, Mr. Djelic, on the maximum number of employees in the authorities of the state administration, public agencies and compulsory social security organisations? One such decision, or you called it the law, and it was not as detailed as any regulation, you said – if the minister assessed it, and there were no criteria. You fired people from the republican administration and at a local level. With local self-government, you put such a condition – unless you reduce the number of employees, transfer funds from the republican level to municipalities will be suspended. What did you leave as a Republic organ obligation? To bring systematicization by December 31st that year. Tell me, where is your morale? Where is your awareness of the memory of the people who have been fired? Let's just say the others forgot, but the people who were fired from that government based on those grades, without any criteria. Please don't, really have measures. At the time of the technical government, I said today, you've made a decision to receive 40 more people at the Ministry of Finance and you've increased the number from 347 to 387. Is it those who perfected, traveled, or don't know what? What else did you do? The Agency for Restitution, set up by the Law on Restitution, was scheduled to start operating on December 1, 2012, but to abolish the earlier Restitution Directorate, which we hear counts 200 people. It hasn't been lifted, and the new one's starting to work. Who are you making remarks to? What I'm talking about, I'm talking about based on the official messenger where this decision I'm talking about was made public. Are they all published? Is the innovative Milosevic regulation on the award of employees in the bodies and organisations that contributed to the growth of the state administration, where you worked legally to cover the illegal payments of councils, commissions and everything else? You activated the 1997 regulation so you could increase those fees from three average salaries to five. What kind of innovation? Where you hold a huge number of people under temporary employment contracts, who work the hardest part of the job, while the largest number of other gentlemen just phone to agree to some government decision. Maybe that's how this one was brought in. That's how it was brought in. Indeed, please, keep your measurements and be prepared to understand, May 20th has passed, election results have been announced. The ruling majority is created, preparing to bring the government. You have entrusted this people and us as messengers with many things. Do you think that many of us don't remember being killed just because they were able to work from 2000 till yesterday, until today, that many people were mobbing just because they were from other parties? Take and see how many such complaints and illnesses are usually going along with this, with a stressful situation. Tell me how many people are out of work. I'll bring you a folder of those who sent their files where they were forced to go, because they were sitting in departments called "punishions." You either burdened them with a system of crowded tables, or you punished them by not giving them a job. Don't talk about something that's just beginning. You really need to have measures and order. I don't expect you to believe in us. We don't make this government because of the last government that expired, which took four years to force. We want the citizens of Serbia to get better. You have to be aware of what led you here, this very lack of sense of reality, that there was an unequal approach to conditions, from that judicial academy, where some could enter and perfect themselves, and others couldn't go anywhere. How many such employment approaches were there without any criteria? Now, it bothers you that it says here that someone will within 45 days not accomplishing. So it's measurable, it has to be proven. You think we are so many enemies to the citizens of Serbia that we make another so-called. a successful reform in which two years of judges do not work, and they receive wages, completely illegal, to get a warrant to return them all? Do you think we are so many enemies to ourselves and our citizens to do it and repeat it, we make an unconstitutional decision? Or are there criteria for measuring and assessing performance? You have to understand that there are people who know and want to work, who treat themselves fairly, not to their party colleagues only, but to all citizens. So, when you accuse, in advance, keep in mind that there is a bunch of material behind you that is available to us and that someone who has abused information about Serbia's debt in the negotiations, that one day they will be able to be processed. At least please, I'm asking you personally to keep that in mind. I apologize for being too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u196	Thank you. The Republic has a National MP, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u197	Of course, all of this remains a threat. It's the only thing the citizens of the Republic heard from this, and it's a very personal threat. As for the hills of paper, go ahead. Just be my guest for any of us. Go ahead, because it's obviously the only constant we've heard from you since the start of formation. We're ready for that. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it will be one of the main features of your regime. However, we are confident that, not only through the judicial system, which you seem to reform, reform the reform, the facts are very stubborn, and I can only tell you that, as far as we're concerned, we are calm because we have the consciousness of what we have done, the difficulties we have faced. None of us are protected, and you, Mrs. Tabakovic, just keep threatening me, there's no problem, I'm ready to face both arguments and documents. There'll be an opportunity, I'm sure, in various instances that we're doing it, and I want it, and I expect it. As for this other one you said, on the one hand, the way this article 38 is written is not harmless at all, these officers are in position. This is about people who need to articulate, formulate, implement public policies, state policy in key segments. You don't go to any mass here, you go to what has to be the elite, leading personnel in our country. The people that are supposed to be here, because they don't believe in a system that's been established in recent years, not only in the previous government, but several governments before and before the government led by Mr. Cvetkovic, that mechanisms that exist are not enough, but must go through court, and that is one politician. Finally, as for the way you speak, that the administration has been reduced and that it is badly done, you will have the privilege of sitting in the government with Mr Dinkic, who is the author of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u198	Thank you. The word came from Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u199	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I will briefly refer to the proposal for a law on ministries. In my work so far, I have mainly criticised the legislation the government has proposed, however, since I am one of the signatories of this law, of course I will support this law in the proposed form, as the proposal for a law on ministries is the result of a coalition agreement between parties that have received the trust of Serbian citizens to form the parliamentary majority and the government. In this impoverished and robbed Serbia, which the previous regime left us, this is the best possible solution to the government law with the proposed ministries. If the previous regime had a government that works for the benefit of citizens, they would now continue to rule and have Tadic as president of the state. The proposed law on ministries should allow the formation of a government that will not rule Serbia but serve Serbian citizens. I expect this government and ministers in the government to work as one team, for the sake of the Serbian state and therefore for the citizens of Serbia. I don't want to live any longer in a country where there are more pensioners than employees, I don't want a country where when young people finish their school live off their salaries or my parents' pensions, I don't want to live in a country like before – that the government is lying to its citizens and stealing its own country. I want to make the changes we promised the citizens. I expect our government to solve the biggest problem in Serbia today – the problem of unemployment. I hope and expect this future government to work in Serbia's interest in the future, in the interests of Serbian citizens, to work as one team. As long as she does so, as long as she respects her citizens, MPs, she will have the support of both my fellow Members and my fellow Members of Parliament. I want the success of the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u200	Thank you. The next word was signed up by MP Milenko Deretta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u201	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I will stick to the subject, i.e. One small part of the draft law on ministries, and one relating to the issue of human and minority rights. I have to say, this proposal for a ministry law concerned me, because it shows one tendency to marginalize, i.e.. Pushing into the second plan of all human rights issues and tracking it, I must admit, but also in some of the previous government's actions. We had the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights in Serbia, and then it was in order to save, and it was saved at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which was combined with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but remained at least in the name of the ministry. What concerns me and I have to say, I worry, is that this bill of law puts the subject of human rights and minority rights at the level of service within the government and I think it's very dangerous, so before the way a government is formed and that structure shows what the priorities of that government are. According to the Ministry Act, our government's priority is tourism. He appears 19 times in the text. Tourism, tourism, etc. It appears 19 times. Human and minority rights appear twice. He would say that human and minority rights in Serbia are resolved. She's not that, of course, and that's a problem that's constantly changing. What I see as a possible motive for such a single decision is the impression that the EU, on which this government, at least according to what it is saying, will no longer insist on controlling the fulfilment of human and minority rights standards. I think it is a huge error and I think this issue will come up as a very strict criterion for what is going to happen to us in the future and above all in order to begin negotiations with the EU on its membership. Mrs. Tabakovic spoke here about the spirit of co-operation. I have to say, I have the impression that she's actually talking about the spirit of interpartial co-operation, i.e. if possible, some kind of coalition co-operation, one kind of a silent entry into one coalition where we would all cooperate, with a lot of understanding for those who propose, among other things, the law that repeals the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I would understand that, but I think that this decision at the same time shows one absence of the spirit of co-operation with citizens and citizens because one letter has been sent to your party, as well as to all other parties in parliament, at the end of May, means, when elections have been completed, when the coalition has not yet been known to be made, one letter, one request from all national councils of minorities of Serbia, including Roma, all 17 and over a hundred civil society organisations, to form a ministry of human and minority rights. This to be formulated as a service is actually the answer of your party, i.e. These coalitions, this request by national councils of minorities and civil society organisations. I have to say and repeat that I expect you, I don't want to ask you, but I expect you to understand the importance of this subject and, if nothing else, I think it's logical for the Justice Department to have the part that deals with human and minority rights, and since you're going to have to change that table like this, because this is how it gets state administration, please don't save it in letters. So that the ministry should be appointed as a ministry of justice, human and minority rights and state self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u202	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u203	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is little attention here to the essence of what the citizens of Serbia were looking for. They sent their message in the elections and told everyone that they were bad, that they were not well and that they were looking for another power. That other government was recognized by the SNS and all of our coalition partners. This evening we have opportunities to keep listening to terms -- fear, threats, someone is asking for something from the ruling majority, and we are running away from the essence, Serbia is bankrupt, humiliated, economically devastated. IMF officials said over four hundred and several thousand people remained in Serbia last year, and the current government barely recognised it. The EU says - there is no good in judicial reform and much else. It's almost unrecognized until today, and here it's constantly defending something that's not good. Is it possible that someone is defending such scandalous decisions, the numerous processes that have become obsolete, that have not experienced the realization? When we add all this together, it is a clear message that people are looking for new power in Serbia. He recognised the new power by electing Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and what the future government will do. In what we have been saying here, from Ms Tabakovic further, it clearly points to the need for a systemic change in the way in which the government is acting in Serbia. Continue to defend the existing system through the way the government has done, where the level of corruption has been achieved by an astounding degree, where tax policy has suffered all possible defeats, where you cannot recognise what in Serbia is a birth brand and a commodity product, except that we are import-oriented maximum and that we have become an absolute consumer society that we spend and what we no longer have. I definitely think that what the citizens of Serbia expect from us, and what has been done before the election of the new government so far, the citizens of Serbia have regained hope and desire and count on them to be better with this new power. We will try as people who are serious and responsible, people who have been given a refund, to make all citizens of Serbia at least the same, and thus this law on ministries which significantly reduces the number of ministries, reduces the number of agencies. It does not reduce them to lose a job, but simply serve nothing but the personal interests of individuals, various lobbys and groups of interests that have been established and formed years ago. The biggest job the new government expects is probably in the area of finance, as the absolute position of the budget is destabilised, the drop in total income and the social product is in significant decline. We cannot achieve that 1989, for which all the statisticians are slowly concealing themselves, demanding that we get that level of efficiency from 1989. For over 12 years, the so-called "supervised" has been implemented. reform of the economic system with a constant recession, a fall in employment, which has been followed each year by numerous affairs in the area of privatisation. Of course, Serbian citizens expect to question it. We need to question the citizens, for companies that have remained trapped for years and give people a chance to live off their work. I'd like to say a few sentences about the work of those committees. Since 2000, as far as I know, the Committee on Finance and all security services has been the governing structure, primarily the people of the DS have never left anyone behind. The moment it was left, it was returned to the DS wing again. Today, look for and say that these are democratic fluids if one of them is doing so, well, no one has denied the inscriptions recently in the daily press that says that various services daily listen to over a million messages that citizens are sending to each other and that we simply failed to see anything that has been done at the stabilisation of society or protection, the fight against corruption and crime. It is good that this change is done as proposed because we think that control will definitely create a condition to reduce pressure on citizens, to create conditions for a more civilized relationship and to erase fear in people for a job, for the right to a better life and for a better future. Of course, a single fact will be erased that you do not have to be a member of the DS in order to have the right to work in Serbia. In the end, it is certain that the result of a poor policy that lasted over 12 years cannot be annulled at some rapid pace. For this new time or new government, conditions should be created to make progress through a civilized way, to add up and slowly recover Serbian society, primarily the Serbian economy, finance and create conditions for a peaceful life. We'll certainly do that if the DS stays as long as possible in the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u204	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u205	Dear Presidents, ladies and fellow Members of the People, I will refer to a ministry that is not formed to be on its own, which is about the Ministry of Science. As a professor of medical school, I would like to convey to the National Assembly the protest of the professor of the University of Rome that this republican government has not found the possibility of having a special ministry of science, given that the most developed countries of the world, the United States and Germany, have and how this ministry developed. Through this ministry, through science they have made better quality of life for their citizens. I would also mention that while Mr Djelic led this ministry that solid money was given to scientific researchers in Serbia and that this improvement in scientific and research work felt at the moment. Unfortunately, I think that now that it has been joined by the Ministry of Education for Primary and Secondary Education, led by Mr Obradovic and who led in the past term, whose member I was of the Republic's Committee, there was very few words about science at these sessions of the Republic's committees, the most words were about primary and secondary education. As a professor, I will protest and advocate in parliament and in the Republic Committee that more talk about science and learn to make a lot more money than is foreseen so far. Since the former speaker of parliament is also present tonight, I would like to point to some anomalies that were present and present, and will continue to be in the work of the republican ministries. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, our former president, will be headed by the health ministry, and her colleague will be led by the Ministry of Education. It is good that they are from the same political organisation, but it is not good that Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will not be able to determine the registration quota for the students of medicine who will take the entrance exams, but will do so by the Ministry of Education. I keep saying that we have to solve this anomaly, that finally the Ministry of Health is doing this, that it determines exactly how many people should be enrolled in the Medical Faculty in Serbia, not that it is the minister of education who has nothing to do with medicine or the enrolment policy at medical schools. What I'm still trying to say is that in the next period, we need to bring the specialisation programme into line with European standards, not that the specialization of neurosurgery in Novi Sad ends in one way, in Nis to another, and in Kragujevac in a third way. It must be universal, as recognised everywhere in Europe and that our specialist's diploma is recognised throughout the EU. That is my goal, and I will stand by the Republic Health Committee to implement it. What I would also end up saying is that these months, and I can say for years, a large number of private universities and a large number of private universities, where many politicians and many of our fellow citizens, as we say, have obtained diplomas. I would like to introduce strict control and strict registration quotas and these private universities, not with the aim of shutting them down, but to raise their standard, not to get a degree overnight by passing a degree, and no one sees it during the course of the study, to introduce rigorous control and that someone who finishes those private colleges has the right to work both in PTT and in the Tax Administration and in Telekom. Dear citizens, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will introduce you to the fact that these diplomas in Serbia, in republican enterprises, are not worth 100 grams of peanuts because serious institutions do not recognise these diplomas and with these diplomas you will not be able to be employed in these institutions except the Assembly. I want to draw attention to the need to pay much more attention to education, higher education and health care. My part-round work will be in the coming period to force future ministers and health and education and science to put in order and health and higher education because I think there's a chance for our young colleagues who are now finishing colleges and who, when they're done, can't find a job. I'm going to ask a question at every session of the Republic Parliament -- when will the young, smart Nišli, who finished colleges with a 10.0 average get a job, given that some students whose teacher and mentor I was with 10.0 average can't get a job at the clinic for the third year? A colleague I was mentoring was employed in Belgrade the other day. The low clinical center lost a young, smart colleague just because there was no hearing in the rest of the ministry, there was no hearing at the resilient clinical center to open places for young smart people. The Democratic Party will fight to keep young smart people here, to find a job, not to go outside Serbia and find their prey there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u206	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u207	Thank you. I'd like to, since my colleague mentioned my name, just to give one piece of information, he's not doing it to me. I have data on sixteen countries related to the organisation and way of working of the Ministry of Science or the field of science within the structures of the governments of countries, such as Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia and these are the countries of the environment and Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, Sweden. Believe it or not, of these sixteen ministries, science exists alone only in Montenegro. This is what I'm saying to you, so that you know the next time you go out on a public stage and talk about what practice it is in other countries, to take into account this information as well. Another thing, private universities in this country have existed since the 1990s. The expansion came after 2000, the 2005 Law on Higher Education established the accreditation process. There is a National Council for Higher Education, which selects an expert body called the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission. The commission numbers fifteen teachers of regular or academics, in any case professional people, is the working body of the National Council for Higher Education, which sets out all criteria relating to the establishment and operation of all universities, universities, higher school institutions, higher schools of vocational studies. So the absolute waist has an advantage over the others. Just so you know, according to the 2010 data, in 2011, 14.98% of one year, 14.87% of freshmen are enrolled in private colleges. The fourth thing about medicine... (Chairman: Time) Please just let me finish the thought. The Ministry of Education and Science absolutely accepts all the demands of medical schools and all the universities. So they're the ones who determine the quota, and we practically adopt that quota at the Serbian government's meetings. Thus, medical schools are absolutely involved, i.e. when determining the number of students enrolled in medical schools at all universities in Serbia. This is not done by the ministry autonomously, but based on their own, to say the data, or their views, wishes. The other thing is whether or not the Ministry of Health is involved. We had a situation that the Ministry of Health sometimes didn't, but the attitudes of medical schools are absolutely respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u208	Thank you. Proposer's representative, please, Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u209	I would ask my colleague, Milisavljevic, whom I greatly respect, to ask a colleague who was a minister of agriculture – how did he manage to hire two thousand people at the Ministry of Agriculture from the time when elections were announced, who were advisers, and to them it was the first job? As far as we know, no education, no seminar has been made. So, those who ended up such a difficult and respected college with a ten, not humiliating the agricultural college, for the purpose of party promotion found a job, and a lot of advertising with them on TV, and you and such people continue to do political work, party work, not professional. That's why we're facing, as a society today, with the fact that we have to solve excess bureaucracy, because all credible world institutions are declaring us an unattractive investment country, because we have a high number of employees who have no effect. I expect this government that even such students, who have failed to hire you within three years, will probably find a job for them and Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanović and Mr Zarko, but in a health care facility where contributions can really be paid, where the tax administration will not be protected and where the tax administration will do its job, not that yellow and other presses deal with the list of protected taxpayers, who do not pay taxes. So, the overall system in which we want to encourage not only the best, no country lives only on the best, but also on the average of which each country stands stable, but so that we don't finance them on credit, nor that parents take loans and cash loans to pay for their tuition, but to finance the staff they need. People who will be able to go when the patient goes to check himself not to wait three years for a checkup, which is only part of the problem I've listed, waiting for the government we're going to choose these days. All in all, I'm not saying we're gonna be able to do everything at once, but there really are a lot of problems left that this next government needs to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u210	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u211	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my contribution to this debate was to be linked to the draft law amending the Security Service Act of the Republic of Serbia. I figured it out differently. I wanted to give a broader explanation of certain, perhaps shrubs, provisions. However, I was inspired by good creams, which were given to us by colleagues from the DS and LDP. So these are so interesting observations about security services that it's a shame not to answer some of them. I'll try to answer some and not give up my initial intensity to talk about the bill itself somewhat wider. So here it was spoken of from the point of view of two completely conflicting lines of argument on the understanding of the role, importance and functioning of the security service. On the one hand, we've had some kind of minimalization, almost a comical reference to the work of security services, professional, professional, human and any other quality of those people who perform them. I don't want to name MPs, but I know who was speaking from the MPs' groups here. They said that they were services dealing with certain gatherings of trivia and trivial materials, almost some propaganda ballots, against political opponents. Let me remind you, according to the State Administration Act, which defines these three agencies, which are VOA, VBA and BIA, which, I'm going to quote, do specific tasks of authoritative character and all three agencies have legal personality status. So if these agencies have done these three-way jobs in the previous period, then I ask the former regime, which is now sitting in the parliamentary benches of the opposition, in which way you have managed to devalue and lower such professional, quality services, which have in the description of the job very important tasks for the defence, internal and external security of the Serbian state. It's about one final thing, I'm not going to tell a malicious motivation to deal with political opponents. What did these services do? Their budgets aren't small. Were those really those three-bit documents, as the head of your parliamentary group said? Who's to blame? What were you doing? What kind of security control was that? On the other hand, we've got an amazing but truly amazing, also obsessive mantra about how security services govern the state and our lives, which is also maybe part of a collective fascination that may exist in Serbia, but that's not true either. The structure in every organization, even in security services, monitors jobs, not business structures. With you, in the former regime that managed to unite all these services, which is not even the former regime, which you've been interpreting as the worst possible regime of the 1990s, you failed to unite, you did it in 2007, and now you're talking about some decentralisation of the service, abolishing the right to civilian control, democratic control, etc. How did you do that? At that time, the great advocates of democracy and civilian control, the LPD, did not mind, let alone DS. In your line of work, the structure, which was subordinated to the interests of a narrow number of individuals at the highest state functions, co-ordinated by the work of the security service. You created, as a fellow LDP MP said, on the Security Committee today – you are creating one of us body per man. Gentlemen from the former regime, who are now sitting in parliamentary benches, have created a supremacy of business interests and some other personal and particular and party interests of the people who have managed these services. That's a fact. What's going on now? What's the problem now? The problem comes down to trying to regulate legality in the work of security services. They've already been united, that's what you've done and don't deceive the citizens of Serbia and the public, that we introduce any centralised and usurpation of rights -- civil, human, and I don't know what kind. That's what you did, but it can change by introducing legality in the work of these services. You say the president now has the highest authority. Imagine this. The competencies held by the President of the Republic in relation to the control of the Security Service are otherwise entirely undefined. Not even mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A significant role in the work so far, the work so far managed by the former regime, these two bodies, had only the head of his cabinet, which formally, de facto, increases the influence that the president has on the work of the service, but de jure and legal, the head of the cabinet gets more power than the President himself, which, you will admit, even for the layman, is legal nonsense. This lack of existing solutions regarding the role of executive authority in the control of the service is a very serious problem. They're the most indisposed of control. You now have a problem with a man, who will have control in one man and not in a man who has been a complete stranger to the general public of Serbia, such as the former head of the Office of the former President of the Republic, who has managed these services, whom no one has seen from the general public in his life, and who has cheered and clothed his life in Serbia, secret information, political opponents. I guess we should've all been afraid of a lot of what the President of the Republic's Office would come from. Now the problem is that we mention a man, a personal solution, which is the public personality of Serbia's political life a couple of exeleans, Mr. Vukic, who everyone knows for 20 years. You will say: by evil, we shall say, for good. The citizens said, for the good. He's a political figure of a couple of excellencies and everybody knows him. Now he's the problem, and there was no problem that Dragan Sutanovac was never responsible for anyone's numerous failures to work at the Ministry of Defence. What Miodrag Rakic, who was not even allowed to be mentioned, had never responded to anyone, had never seen the public of this man. Now the problem is Alexander Wolfie. It is an insult to common sense and do not deceive Serbian citizens. There's another interesting thing I want to draw attention to. You say - criteria should be introduced. Maybe they are. Maybe I can even accept, speak in person, that they really might have been able to introduce criteria. The criteria that would mean that for the relaxation of the service of a general state of consciousness in Serbia, it would be desirable to be a civilian, not to be generals, not to be retired military persons, or security guards, etc., to be a civil person with a good, serious legal education, which would guarantee the possibility of law enforcement in the work of these services. It's a key thing. Alexander Vukic, you say, even a colleague from the LDP, and I'm not sure whose address it was, so I'm not going to point out, he said maybe Vukic is even meeting those criteria. Yeah, they're really satisfying. He does not meet, in your opinion, only one criterion, which is that he is truly determined to deal in a uncompromising and decisive way with what are the legacy of the corrupt way of life and crime that you have introduced as, I don't know how to say, the meaning of life in Serbia. We'll change that. That's the discontinuity. There's political will for it. It's not his reference, and it's the only thing you can't agree with. All other criteria he meets. There are a lot of things that are really maliciously interpreted here, trying to present to the public how, for God's sake, SNS and coalitions, the newly formed government, or parliamentary majority, and especially Vukic, are intended to usurp public life, usurp people's private lives by listening. I really don't know, the only good thing citizens seem to understand is that you're good teachers for such things, but that we won't be your students. That's what's very important, and I'd like the citizens to know. I just wanted one more thing, not to be entirely in this political discussion or semi-political discussion of how it was actually done illegally. What's going on? You had, on the one hand, this Bureau that was a key meeting place, even though it wasn't supposed to be at all. All meetings were held at the Bureau at the head of the cabinet, although there is a clear definition that there is a National Security Council and the Office, through which the highest number of operational tasks should be carried out, not administrative tasks, so there is also a conversion, so the Offices gave administrative tasks, and here they gave operational, secret tasks. In the framework of the Bureau, without any knowledge, public control, the insight of any control mechanisms, the entire system and the entire subsystem of some secret services was introduced, and I don't know what, secret operations, where no one alive knows what was going on. This Bureau, gentlemen, is nothing but a simple secretariat. That there was respect for the rights and procedures, cohesion in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, a function then performed by the head of the cabinet, which we are erasing in this bill, was essentially the function of the head of the Secretariat, which is administrative, not the executive body of the Council. In practice, because of the above-mentioned legal lack, it took a dimension, that actually the chief of staff had actually grabbed and kidnapped a huge part of the executive government. It's completely past the Constitution and the existing law. Our proposal, which you say is terrible, and I'd like to hear a serious argument against it, is that in the near future the Council is completely reorganized. Right? To redecorate the body in a way that will strengthen its cohesion in work and make it tighter to the Constitution and legality. That's the goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u212	The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u213	Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable vice presidents, I will discuss this matter in a completely different way. I will try to return life to this parliament and among the MPs, that is, to return to the problems that workers and citizens of Serbia face today. In this context, I will also remind the government that it is facing huge responsibility and major problems, which will be undisputed in the coming period. That is why I must remind myself, I think that citizens and workers of Serbia know this, but it seems that I must remind, first of all, that in Serbia today there are over a million unemployed, that no new jobs are being opened, that investments have stopped, and that what may be the most remarkable for all of us, that Serbia has been ruled over by apathy. When I talk like this, a lot of people tell me that that's how I like to dramatize, but I have to remind myself that I come from another mile and from another environment. Because our politicians, locked up in their narrow circles, very often, and that's what's most devastating, completely losing their relationship with reality and reality. So I'm going to remind you, that's one of the MPs, and I mentioned, that the forecasts that drought damage will be more than two billion, which again points to that, and I have to remind you, that today is 10,000 children, the users of folk cuisine, and that in the coming period, we are also facing a food shortage problem. In all of this, I haven't been here long, and I like to say to myself that I am an intern MP, but this period I spent in parliament, I spent it listening to bickering, to use that term, between the Democratic Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. That is why I must remind myself that it is not living, that it will not bring any improvement to the citizens or to the workers of Serbia. Now I'd like to move on to some more specific things. First of all, in this situation, economic and social, in Serbia there is absolutely no social dialogue, and the Social and Economic Council is absolutely not working. A strong responsibility for such a situation in social dialogue has been the previous government, which the Social-Economic Council has served exclusively as a front for European integration purposes. Now, in careful analysis of the proposal for a law on government and ministries, I have again faced the fact that even the new government has not made a move on this plan, because the draft law relating to the competences of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Employment absolutely does not mention social dialogue and does not mention the work of the Social-Economic Council. I must remind myself that the dialogue between the government, the workers and employers is something that leads to a conflictless solution to the problem, and in a situation where, from September 1st, a series of problems and huge problems await us, I think this is completely irresponsible by the future government, or the legislator. For that reason, I have submitted an amendment to what I said earlier. In addition, I would like to remind myself that in the pre-election announcements of the parties that make up the majority today and which will form the government, there have been a lot of promises of re-industrialisation. By reading and studying, by following the work of the Ministry of Finance and Industry, neither does "and" exist from industry. I absolutely think that it was necessary to form a special industry ministry, given the huge problem that awaits us in this segment, and I will remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken care of Jelizara Smederevo, the metal complex, a series of textile industry factories, and that the largest number of these companies are in restructuring and in huge problems that will begin as early as September 1st. For these very reasons, I have also submitted an amendment relating to the description of the Ministry of Finance and Industry's competence, and I believe that the industry must absolutely be singled out, such as, in the extreme line, done with tourism, where the large segment is very well worked, dedicated to tourism, while industry is nowhere to be found. I absolutely do not diminish the importance of the need to develop tourism, but I also think that it is industry that deserves special separation and focus. Finally, very briefly, slightly specific, one of the remarks concerning the Ministry of Finance and Industry, it is an objection to the status of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, which is part of the Ministry of Finance and Business. In my confidence, and believe me, I am well aware of the work of this Directorate, the Meteorology Organization should be and must be a special organization of state administration. The reasons are, above all, the multidisciplinary of meteorology, its persuasion through all activities in the state and the business of the meteorology organisation are closely linked, not only to one ministry, but also to the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Traffic, Trade, Industry, Health, Agriculture, Environmental Protection. When it is part of a ministry, there is no possibility of meeting the demands that are expected of it. Until 2007, this organization was an institution, and in 2007, it was transformed into a directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u214	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u215	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have three very important legislative proposals before us today, of which the Bill on Government and the Proposal for a Law on Ministries are made by the future Government of the Republic of Serbia. The SNS is a party whose policy and commitment is dominantly facing the future, and therefore I am sure that the future government in which SNS will be participated will also be a significant part, committed to creating a better, safer, richer, more perspective for all Serbian citizens. However, in order to devote ourselves to the future, we need to define the present. We need to define that starting line from which they will start to run their race by the future government of the Republic of Serbia, and that starting line is the legacy of the previous government of the outgoing former DS regime. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for the future government to take Serbia over from its citizens, we need to define what the former regime has left for us to inherit. The facts that define both the economic and financial and the social environment are catastrophic and therefore the huge challenges facing the future government and which will, in fact, be found by the future Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of several dreary facts that, as a hot potato, we get from the former regime and therefore the future government of the Republic of Serbia will not start from scratch, starting from a fat inherited minus. The external debt of the Republic of Serbia has exceeded 24 billion euros. The former regime has owed more than six billion euros in just the last three years. In this way, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia increased by 69%, from 8.7 billion euros in 2008, to 14.7 billion euros in 2011. In 2011 alone, Serbia was in debt at a pace of almost 9.5m euros a day. You must admit that this speed would be difficult to track, difficult to endure and much more significant and much stronger economies than the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It is also a huge challenge, but it is also a huge task in front of the future government of the Republic of Serbia and in front of this parliament of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens, which is to provide resources from which all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, will be returned in vain, as the main party of the former regime, are in charge of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Second, no smaller, the cancer of our society's wounds is unemployment, huge unemployment. The job in Serbia is currently waiting for more than 800,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In April 2010, the unemployment rate was 19.2%, 22.2% in October 2011, and almost 26% in May 2012. Because of this, I expect from the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I am giving full support to, that it bravely opposes and goes to meet the challenges, and not to stare at the problems, to close your eyes, as has been the practice so far, to put your head in the sand before challenges, and then use the media, which you have under control today, which you still have under control, which you own, using marketing tricks skillfully turned defeats into some virtual victories. Never again does any official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, never again does any of the presidents of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic government must not say, as Mr Mirko Cvetkovic said, leaving the prime minister, and he said - statistically Serbia has come out of the crisis, but Serbian citizens will not feel it. That's embarrassing. It must never happen again. You can never run such a policy again. For this reason, I will also give full support to the Law on Government and the Law on Ministry and New Government which will be small, operational, efficient and that will finally bring a new chance and a better future to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u216	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Borislav Steafanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u217	Thank you. I think it's time we all tried to come back and talk about what is the essence of today's session, and these are the bill's proposals in principle presented here. If we can do more constructively than before, and if the gentlemen of the ruling coalition can now try to avoid behavior, vocabulary and approach as appropriate for their rallys, and not for the National Assembly, since it seems to me that none of the distinguished colleagues in the majority can understand that they are power and cannot understand, and I will repeat the words of your widow president since yesterday, quote - gentlemen, you are an opposition. So, I'm asking you to act this way and try to finally talk about the essence of the matter, and these are the suggestions you've given us. Respecting Mrs Tabakovic and her explanation as a proposing, I must say that no one here has ever spoken, at least on our part, of any personal solutions, nor have we dealt with it, nor intend to, until it comes to the Assembly's agenda. What we had to say and what we have to say are very clear and precise misunderstandings, ambiguities and dilemmas that we have as people's representatives in relation to your proposal. No more than that. We are trying really in our exhibitions not to introduce the political corners of our parties, but to try first and foremost to point to the very clear shortcomings and ambiguity of your proposals. Please appreciate that, if we can hear each other out. We're not asking any more of that. So, we think it's completely unnecessary and extremely harmful to make a provision that the government repeals, i.e. provides the possibility to abolish acts by public authorities. Not because we are against the fact that there are agencies and bodies out of reach and budget and control and state authorities, but because the provision is extremely unclear, it does not speak of public authorities and many other factors in this country, including lawyers. If you're looking extensively, you can also put a fire department in the public authority holders. That I'm not talking about the Manchester and that I'm not talking about the Guardian of the Rights of Citizens and similar things in which we deeply disagree with your interpretation. I think you could have made a minimal extra effort to specify this thing, to avoid already existing public discussion and indeed justifiable anxiety and the civil sector of this country and all those who care about the rights of citizens. I can trust you, Mrs. Tabakovic, at that interpretation, but it doesn't say anything. Since you're the party that showed that she really cares about what it says, I think you could now, say, what you told us here today and write in this proposal, nothing more. What is really a very harmful provision that appears in the Government Act is the possibility that my colleagues have already presented, and I will not add much about it, to replace the persons who are in place, because this provision allows arbitration and that provision can be put, if right and argumentarily, into the Law on Civil Servants. You could have put it in that law and it would have been his place. You put it in the Government Act, which, of course, creates reasonable doubt in both the citizens and the opposition that there will be abuse, knowing that there is a huge desire for the work of your ruling coalition and the regime to replace people who do not respond for 1001 reasons, which are repeatedly and publicly presented. What is certain is that we know and now in advance that there will be no shifts in the ministries controlled by your coalition partners and I would like to be denied in the coming days because that would mean better days for Serbia, as you are announcing. Of course, public office holders and head of the IRS, public office holders and governor of the National Bank, and everything we've said so far. I also think it's very harmful that some important segments of our social and political life and every other life in this country are turning into offices and abolishing ministries. Personally, I think the abolition of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is bad, but it's not the worst of all this. The only good thing about creating the Office for Kosovo and Metohija is that the future head of the office will have a easier pass in, I believe, very frequent talks with Albanian authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, because they will not mind the office, while the ministry has now bothered them. It is a much worse thing that you have not now made any effort to do so in this office, and I am sure you will never do so while you are in power, and I am sure and I hope that you will not be long, you will not unite the budget allocations for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, and this gentleman or friend who will take it very well knows and will face it very quickly. Namely, the entire segments of the budget for education and health care, one and two, will remain out of your reach and I am sorry. I think it's a big mistake and I think there's still room for feudalization, against which you are, and for all the problems that have been happening to us and that we haven't been able to solve either. What's certain is that abolishing the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights is very bad. These are the two most sensitive things in our country, so minority and human rights and Kosovo and Metohija. I think it would have a much bigger weight, and I trust people who are your candidates for those places, that these offices are actually ministries. So I don't understand why this thing isn't simply raised to that level, to avoid such unnecessary misunderstandings. What is certain is that there are a lot of overlapping powers in the draft ministry law. We have ministries created for two ministers, for two corridors, and that's what citizens certainly don't expect. But let's leave time to show what the results will be and whether they will be. Mrs. Tabakovic, what remains unclear to me, I agree with you that it is absolutely necessary, and we have all advocated in the campaign to reduce bureaucracy, the number of people who are unnecessarily needed in certain places in the state administration, but it is a vague concept that you have put out about the folding of people who are no longer needed in one place, therefore, in the office for quick answers, and it seems to me in some way to be the story of judges who are fired so they can deal with controversial privatisations or election theft, which just proves my point that your solutions and how to spray from the new-old bureaucracy. I have one more thing to look at, because I think if not now and not very quickly, we're going to stop dealing with each other's measurements in this assembly and focus on checking out the results of the new government. What is certainly not good for your party, I would say, and that is that the whole philosophy moves around it – so what if our solutions are not right, look at yours; so what if we have bad personnel, look at yours; so what if we were stealing or stealing now, look at you. I don't think it's good for you or for us or for Serbia, and I think it's time for you to give it up slowly. What's for sure is that there really is a fascination with secret services and no one here has spoken except your letter about human resources. She probably knows something the National Assembly doesn't know. What is certain, and to answer, of the "pitorescue expansion", according to the SNS MP, that the assessment of the work of the service of this country has been given by the European Commission and the DEA, and that assessment is the most possible. I would really not add anything to that, except that President Nikolic gave the highest possible marks on the work of these services, by confirming the threat of the former president due to a job well done precisely because of the people who are now scheduled to be replaced. It's unclear to me how your emissary already knows who's gonna be head of the Bureau? It's a purely therapeutic question. What we are interested in, is not absolutely, Mrs Tabakovic, an attempt to reduce the ability of the president to appoint that person, but we have just expressed principled concern that there is no duplication of jobs. If you have a man in the National Security Council, does the same person have to do the jobs that were done in this proposal and nothing more than that, and that we think maybe it was better to make this specific a little more specific? It's clear to me that there won't be any talking here about whether or not someone is a good candidate until it comes to the agenda in some future period. We are only interested to see that the citizens of Serbia realize that this matter is not about any solution that needs to be commented on right now, but are the result essentially, and I am sorry to say first, indeed a deep division that exists in the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u218	Thank you. The word is proposed by a representative, Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u219	The head of the parliamentary group is looking for a replica. I have to ask you what division in SNS are you talking about? Are you looking at yourself, then auto-projecting, or what's going on? What's the problem? As far as SNS is concerned, we're all together, making decisions on our main committees unanimously, and I don't know anyone who fights with anyone. Mr. Stefanovic, you were right yesterday when you said I personally have fear and enormous responsibility for everything we have to take over. I've been keeping my mouth shut all day, watching from the Parliament Club, and I've seen that in fact, everyone's only objection was -- who's going to be Secretary of the National Security Council or the head of the Bureau? That's the biggest problem. Here, I'll behave differently from you. I'll say it's true that it was also in your party, in which there is no division, which is obvious to the citizens of Serbia, those people who did their job well. There were those who fought against crime and corruption, right in places like that. But, Mr. Stefanovic, that you're so casually going out, that you're acting so casually and irresponsiblely, that you're telling us that we've been stealing and stealing, no, we're not, and God knows the DS is. You said that directly about SNS. But DS and its officials did. I just want to tell you one thing, which is very important for peace and stability in Serbia. You don't have to show and prove your courage today, yesterday, tomorrow. Life doesn't last two days, it lasts much longer. It is very important for Serbia to ensure a lasting, permanent fight against corruption and crime, it is very important that all subjects participate in the political scene and it is very important that we have the same relationship with everyone. But what I'm asking you to do, don't do it because it was whose homework to take the SNS into your mouth and when there's a reason and there's no reason for it. To those who worry that something will be abused, I assure you that you will be protected as before, and I assure you that those who participated, and those who before me and before others, have pursued in different ways, and perhaps some other people, will certainly be prosecuted because they participated in the execution of the most serious crimes. No one, not you, not me, not anyone else in Serbia can do that or prevent it. You've been talking about the obsession with these services all day, and it seems to me that you've all talked more about yourself than those you wanted to honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u220	Thank you. The floor is represented by a representative of Proposer Jorgovanka Tabaković. I apologize to the replica of Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u221	The office for Kosovo and Metohija is not designed to have a pass-by to which you call Albanian authorities, we do not call it that, it is for us a false state of Kosovo, but to protect the interests of Serbia and the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. It is interesting that there has been no more passing and greater satisfaction from the ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, led by the man who was the minister in the government of Bajram Rexhepi, whom you have appointed. A man who swore to the constitution of the fake Kosovo and served as minister in the government of Bajram Rexhepi and then became minister, Serbian Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. If there is a reason to suspect that the ministry should have been changed to what is today in the Kosovo and Metohija offices, then it is that you had such human resources that were better known in Pristina than among citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Let me tell you right now, whatever happens in the future will happen within Resolution 1244 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and no one will ever hand it over to Hashim Thaci. No one ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u222	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. I apologize if the promoter has an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u223	Mr. Stefanovic, did you go out so you didn't hear the MPs perform, it doesn't matter anymore. I asked my colleagues what you are in education, they say – a lawyer and a team I was previously surprised by part of your discussion. Are you afraid that under public authorities whose work will be controlled, the National Bank, the Protector of Citizens or the Ombudsman will be subdued? I told you four times that in the Constitution it's something that doesn't fall under the Government Act, and now I have to read it to you. The Law on the State Administration of Article 46 says, where the holders and public authorities are spoken of and says that the supervision of the work consists of supervision of the lawfulness of the work of the public administration authorities and public authorities and that the supervision is carried out by the ministry. What ministry oversees the National Bank? Which ministry is overseeing the Ombudsman, the public defender? They are directly subordinated only to the National Assembly and you as a lawyer would have to make that distinction and I told you - we listed public authorities on a republican level. We've separated even the local authorities of self-government, and now it doesn't matter if you're making a difference and you know the area, it's important that you bring into the public the uncertainty that this government is going to deal with what is not within the law, let alone the Constitution. Please don't let any of you mention such things anymore, because it's not a subject of doubt. That's what the state administration law says very clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u224	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u225	Mrs. Tabakovic, first of all, there's one thing to repeat, although there's really no need to raise questions. I've been very specific, I'll tell you again. If that's the case, I have no doubt, I even said, you spoke to a colleague, that I believe you. So, please, told me to trust you. I just wanted you to be able to make an extra effort and explain that provision further. Mrs. Tabakovic, I've quoted your explanation. What's the fact that no one by the DS, I'm talking about the promoter now, has mentioned any personal solutions, is what your MPs did. No one's ever been here, Mr. Wolfie. Trust me. As for the gentleman you gave the right to a replica, I'm glad the president was here, the gentleman had no right to a replica, because he wasn't named at all, but he got the right to a replica, and we heard an explanation about something I wasn't talking about at all. So, I said and I'll repeat that I'm in favour of staying the KIM Ministry, but I said that if there's one good thing that you're becoming an office, it's going to be easier to talk to Pristina authorities. I don't know how you understood what you said, but believe me, we're going to hold you to this solemn oath that no one will shake hands with Hashim Thaci and I hope you have a very alive inside coalition debate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u226	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u227	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the ministry law, I would like to start with a fact which is undeniable in article 35, which is that you hereby abolish the two ministries crucial, I would say, for the national policy you have declared in the election campaign. So I would like you to give me an answer to the question, maybe I don't have a good account, and tonight the prime minister and candidate for prime minister reiterated that this government will have fewer ministries than the previous government, and not only that, but the prime minister said this is the smallest government than modern parliamentaryism in Serbia. If I'm counting correctly, you're out of the 15 ministries promised, it was your promise that the government would count 15 ministries, you promised it to the citizens, you reached 17 ministries and 18 or 19 ministers. Please explain to me afterwards whether there will be 18 or 19 ministries. When it comes to the number of ministries held by the previous government, the previous government had 19 ministries and after the resignation of Minister Djelic had 20 ministries. Your government with four chiefs or Chancellors, whatever you call them, the office, will have 22 ministries. So more than the previous government. You said this assembly would have four vice presidents, and she has five vice presidents. I will say a few words about our national policy in which you swore, therefore, that you would take care of Serbs outside Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia, etc., places where people died, lost homes, homes. Your V.D. The president visited those areas before these elections. The least these people expected was to keep you in the government ministry to take care of them. No, you're terminating the Diaspora Ministry. I've been getting more messages today, since I've been dealing with this problem for many years, which is what associations that gather refugees and exiled faces are protesting over this attitude of yours, so the association is representative of these people. On the other hand, you're terminating the KIM Department. I would add to what Mr. Stefanovic was saying a fact that may not be spoken yet, that office will be handed over to a small party. So, KIM will hand out the SNS, from the SPS's hand into the hands of a small party so that you can then wash your hands for the failure of that policy. Finally, since fellow MPs should speak, I am really surprised that you have abolished the minority ministry. I'm really surprised that the law you're bringing on the ministries has been made so that since the day that this law is passed, the minority will not have any legal protection, or institution that cares about them. There are no transitional provisions of such an attitude as to tell who will care about the rights of national minorities after the adoption of this law. When you're going to bring a regulation to the government to address the issue of office establishment, it's a big uncertainty. In that sense, I believe that minorities, as well as Serbs in the region, Serbs in the diaspora, the issue and position of religious communities, by abolishing the Ministry of Faith, are all deprived, and that this was part of your policy shown through your political programme, which you brought to the citizens and for which you voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u228	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Vulin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u229	Your problem is that you experience everything, including Kosovo and Metohija, as a party prey. That is how you experienced Serbia, as if you had received it in the sabers, so you shared it in the sabers. That's not how we got power in this country. Kosovo and Metohija are not party prey. The decision of our coalition is that I or someone else is engaged in Kosovo and Metohija is neither a personal nor a party decision. It's a decision on a cellular solution and nothing else. It's not party prey. And every success, and every failure is a success and not a single government's success, but a single people's success. KIM is the biggest concern and the greatest pride of this country and all of us, whether we live or not in KIM space, and not any political party. Don't judge us for you. We don't share Serbia on sabers, we don't even get it on sabers, we won't share it on sabers, Serbia isn't prey, kiM isn't prey. Otherwise, as chairman of the Socialist Movement, the first decision I've made about KiM is to ban any membership in the Socialist Movement, because it's not party prey and no one because I'm here where I am will become a member of the Socialist Movement. So, it's not party prey and learn to judge Kosovo. When you speak of him, speak better, speak softly. It's not party prey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u230	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u231	Chairman, dear colleagues, just one well-intentioned remark before I start on the subject. Someone may be entitled to a replica, if it is personally mentioned, or if the proposer is authorized. Mr. Vulin is being recognized all the time because he knows he'll take over as chairman or director of that office. Not even when he mentioned his name. The fact that he recognizes himself in office doesn't give him the right to violate the Rules of Procedure, and neither does you. I am very well-intentioned to you, and when my colleagues mention it by name, feel free to give him the right to answer that as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u232	If you please, on the basis of Article 104. - if the presentation of the MP is misread, he has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u233	It's a replica on the replica, then. He didn't have the exposure, he had two replicas, he didn't have the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u234	This was, then, a member of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the incorrectly interpreted exposure. As president of the assembly, I interpreted that Mr. Vulin was entitled to a replica. Please proceed now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u235	So, I'm sorry that I had to make this remark on behalf of my colleagues, because I want to bring this debate into play today quite differently. It's been said here a thousand times today, who didn't understand the May 6th and 20th messages well. If you want, for the right, May 6th and 20th, the citizens said they wanted to change, they wanted something different, and I think they got a legitimate right to get another power. That it is no tragedy to have changes in Serbia's leadership, that it is good, if that means that it will be different, behave differently and that what has been promised to the citizens will be fulfilled. In that sense, I think this government should be given a chance and everyone has a chance. Can change be brought by some old people and old political parties who were in the previous government, whether they can change individuals who are twenty-two years old in politics and show what is theirs -- believe it, I don't know, but I know they have a chance. In the spirit of this political culture, we need to talk today. The message on May 20th and 6th is that citizens are looking for new solutions, and today they only get excuses. The excuse that DS is wrong and that it's all her fault is not something the citizens want to hear. They want to hear what the concept of the new government is through the Ministry Act, what's new about it, what's new, what are different people who are going to do it and not repeat the mistakes of those predecessors. In that sense, it's deeply wrong, to everything we're telling you today, to say and you've done it, because the citizens won't. You won't be a bad copy of something they didn't want on May 20th. He wants you to be new and better. In that sense, what hasn't changed and what's wrong is that the state was seen as a party prey. Here you can see exactly who was being tailored by the ministry, how the cataract was being cut off, how it was given to someone by place of origin and by what he wanted to be a ministry, and that's what the citizens see. Mr Dacic today said, speaking of Norway, that it is a country that has the Ministry of Fish and the Ministry of Oil and that it stems from its strategic definitions. I'm sorry that we here don't see what our strategic commitment is. If I understand correctly, the strategic definition of this government, just as before, is the continuation of European integration, the struggle to preserve territorial integrity and a democratic state that relies on human rights and freedoms. In each ministry, the EU is mentioned in a description of the work, not that every ministry will work to meet the EU accession action plan, the reforms we need on this road, but will create conditions for implementing the projects that we would get from the EU. Each ministry towards the EU has one project bureau and a project task to attract money, not essential reforms. She, in another valuable way, is not mentioned in any of these laws. What is our national strategy? Is it to abolish the Ministry of KIM and human rights and step deeply into demagogy, which is the same legacy of all previous governments, where the form is spoken of, rather than the essence? We have a smaller number of ministries, but the de facto of these offices are the ministries. It's publicly recognised by the promoters today, 10 times. So, that's just the question -- is the essence of whether we're going to have 17 ministries, and the relationship with what we're going to end for demagogy, so much worse, is not because of real savings, but we're going to turn the country's strategic definition into services for mere demagogy so that we can say that we have fewer ministries than the previous government. When it comes to state security services, and it hasn't changed since 1990. I wish we had talked about education today, talked about what we really needed. If we want economic recovery, we have to invest in education. I wish there was one government where people fight to run a social policy and education portfolio. We've been listening all day about who's gonna be in control of the National Security Service. Stop, people, it's not the 1990s. It's not the most important thing. They are a means to have a legal state and to fight corruption and crime, and they are not in themselves a goal, because if they set themselves as a goal, then it seems that we have a problem, or that we are going back to other times. In that sense, I have full confidence in these people here, Mr. Vukic, that they will continue to fight corruption and crime. Thank God it doesn't start from scratch. Thank God that Mr Nikolic said – that many have been done in the fight against organised crime, that today many people carry their heads in the bag and that they will be protected. We'll hold them to their word. We would like them to repeat at the end of the mandate of this government and the DEA and the European Commission -- that Serbia was a ninja in the fight against organised crime. Let's give people support. We don't think decentralisation can do itself any good, but maybe something good will do. That's where I get my chance. Finally, let me tell you, what is the only newspaper in this government, which has preserved many bad traits and ways of behaviour of previous governments, is the abolition of democratic fluids, called the departmentalization of the state. Law on civil servants, the Law on State Administration was a major shift praised by the Council of Europe and the European Commission, because we received 50% of state officials elected to the competition. If it was luck and speed, we'd have 100%. They are concerned in public with the ideas of leaders, these new coalitions, that they will replace the people elected by the Assembly, that they will replace the people chosen in the competition. It's totally illegal and impossible. So Article 38 simply came as a confirmation of a public concern, and after such reckless statements that we are going back to the party state and that it will, contrary to the laws that have been passed, abolish these legal assets and democratic assets. I wish practice would deny us. I wish this government could take its chance. Anything this government does good for the benefit of Serbian citizens will be good for the Democratic Party as well. What's the lesson of May 6th and 20th is that citizens are fed up with campaigning and bickering. What they didn't hear, those are solutions, they didn't hear reconciliation, they didn't see the arm held up. On behalf of the Democratic Party, I give you my hand. I say to you: do your best for Serbia; we will stand behind you and praise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u236	The reply was requested by the president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u237	First of all, I want to apologize to Mrs. Trivan for the little noise that existed here, but there are more MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party than I think, all the others in this room, but certainly forgive me for that. As for a few things you said, I'd like to answer in a different way. We know what the DEA and the European Commission said. There are people who have fought crime, these people hat down. These people, and when they are threatened, will have protection, as the President of the Republic has said, and we repeat it to you, as we do, according to both the Constitution and the law and more. You know what I mean when I talk about it. On the other hand, I think it is the citizens of Serbia who need to assess that the fight against corruption and the fight against crime has been under way. I must tell you that no one in Serbia is satisfied that none of the 24 privatisations spoken of by the European Commission has been examined has been completed. The dozens and hundreds of privatisations that have been committed, along with criminal acts, have not been carried out, let alone court proceedings have been completed. That there were even scandalous verdicts, obviously politically inebriated, in the previous period. I've been listening all day like yesterday and insulting myself. You have all drawn me, and those who have not spoken my name, and those who have, from the LDP parliamentary group to many other parliamentary groups. In the end, I came to ask you, "Excuse me, but are we some kind of authority?" Is that what we've become? Are we chosen? What have we done wrong? What have we done, so you've been attacking us so hard and so hard? You have your minister today, who is calling on all reporters in Belgrade to report that one wonderful man, Braca Petkovic, has not paid his taxes as a minister. It is all organised by one of your ministers, who did not pay taxes, but at that time bought a million- and 500,000-euro salary and built houses and apartments in Belgrade, and is bothered by a wonderful man like Braca Petkovic and thinks we do not know what is going on in Serbia. Then we're all some innocents and we're all pretending we don't know what's going on. And that wolf over there, he's some kind of criminal. If I am, tell me in my face - you stole that too. Don't shut up. Say, you took that, too. I'll say it. It's okay, you're right. You know very well, both you and everyone else in your parliamentary group, I don't claim for everyone else, you know, well, I end up, I beg your pardon, that we will also make sure that there are no party revenges here, any party reactions in the fight against corruption and crime. You know we'll take care of it. What are you nervous about, when I speak for your own good? It's five or ten seconds, no more than that. I'm just asking you to give us a little chance. As for the competition from the Assembly, we respect both the competitions and the Assembly, even your staged competitions. All the competitions were staged. We respect these organs here. We fight here with you, even though we could sit, keep quiet, wait and finish in an hour to go home faster, because we want to cultivate and respect institutions, parliament and everything else. But you don't even let us act, hold that hand, if that's what you're saying, for the simple reason we haven't heard anything constructively. All the time it's all bad, all terrible, the minister who isn't even a day the minister is terrible, everyone's terrible, everyone's bad, let's go back to the way things were. There's no going back to the old one. You may come in four years, maybe eight years, but that takes choices. We, if you win then, will give you our hand, will not attack you even before you form a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u238	The Republic was requested by the People's MP Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u239	Mr. Wolf, you just did what I asked you to do on behalf of the citizens. They are full of discussions between the Democratic Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. They want to hear what we're going to do together -- you as a government, and we as an opposition. In that name, I'm telling you, all the wonderful people who don't pay taxes are the same as all the ones you think criminals are, just like the law, and you're rightly prosecuted. Do what you're told in the Constitution and the law, you'll have our absolute support. That's all I have to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u240	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u241	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must tell the President of Parliament that it is time for a replica of two minutes. Please, since we've been having a long discussion today, my colleague Vukic was not in the Assembly today and I believe he's an oran for discussion, that we still make sure it's two minutes. He says he watched the transfer from the Assembly and certainly couldn't see in that transmission that anyone from the DS mentioned who would be elected to some function that has not yet been defined as being elected. So no one in the DS did that. The only letter she mentioned was a letter from your MP group, and she was talking about how you might be in that position. The Democratic Party didn't talk about it. The Democratic Party does not enter into that if the law is passed as proposed. Who will the President of the Republic propose? He can also propose to his chief of staff, he can propose to someone else. We'll see who he proposes, and then we'll give our own court and our own comment on it. I wouldn't have talked about it, and I wouldn't have mentioned it if it hadn't been mentioned by the SNS. We had a shorter controversy about the number of ministries and we heard that this government would have fewer ministries. That's not true. The last government had 17 ministries, and the government in the bill has 17 ministries. The number of ministries is the same. So there are no fewer ministries and the government is no smaller than it was. There are also mentioned offices, that there will be four, as far as I can see from the bill -- a little less or a little more. Anyway, with these offices, the government will be bigger, not smaller. It's a fact, and it doesn't take much to break. Should the Government be responsible for the work of public authority holders? This was mentioned by my colleague Borko Stefanovic, and the representative of the promoter has been lenient on the subject. We don't think all public authorities, as specified in this government law, should be controlled by the government. He doesn't need to control them or direct them. There are public authorities that are independent of the government and must be independent of the government. I am not talking about those mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do not open the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a member of the 138th which you have quoted. I'm not talking about the Guardian, I'm not talking about the National Bank, I'm talking about Article 137. The Constitution, which says – certain public powers can be entrusted by law to businesses, institutions, organisations and individuals. Public powers may be entrusted by law to specific bodies through which regulatory functions are exercised in certain areas or activities. These are local self-government units and an autonomous province. Therefore, the government should not be able to annul the acts of all public authorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The public authority holder is the Bar Association. The government shouldn't have that possibility. What we're talking about and what you're talking about is different from the fact that the motionary's representative made us promise not to interpret it that way. We can't support what's promised, but we've made amendments, and it can be very easy to correct. Read our amendments, we have specified these amendments that the Government can do whatever is envisaged in relation to public authorities holders, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, if you think, on public agencies, you should put – a public agency whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it can be removed by amendments. Do not take the position of the Competition Protection Commission, which is a public authority holder and writes in Article 20 of that law – the Commission is an independent and independent organisation that exercises public authority in accordance with this law and the Commission for its work corresponds to the National Assembly, that we are in a position that the Government can annul its acts. The second thing I wanted to talk about was the Ministry Act, Article 38. There's been a lot of words in the election campaign on the department. We've been talking since 2004, 2005 about how the state administration should be professionalized. You have the Law on civil servants passed at the time of the government of Kostunica and Dinkic. We've succeeded in professionalizing to the level of assistant ministers. The proposing representative well knows that the assistant secretary in the Serbian Parliament is a state official in office and that he is elected in the competition and that these assistants were both in the past term and in the previous term and that they have not changed. State officials are in office as ministerial assistants, assistant secretaries. These people are supposed to be professionals, and the ministers and the secretary of state are changing. Those elected in the contest cannot be replaced and replaced without criteria, as provided for in this ministry law, within 45 days of the date of adoption of the law and, according to the minister's discretionary assessment. If we accept something like this, first it's unconstitutional, secondly, they'll all get court proceedings and they'll be able to go back to work and thirdly, let's step back into the professionalization of the state administration. So not one step back, but 10 steps back. So far, we have a situation -- ministers and state secretaries are changing. Now everyone's changing. It's just that we're telling you not to do it. We have submitted amendments in this direction and I think we can discuss this very seriously on committees, and I hope you will accept some of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u242	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that the remaining time for the DS parliamentary group is 15 seconds, you have two other registered speakers, but I'm afraid that won't be enough to finish the sentences. The President of the Proposer, Dr Jorvanka Tabaković, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u243	I've just listened to the president of the parliamentary group say that in the end, we no longer annoy the citizens with this debate, but here, when God wills, that and time helps, and so does the president of the assembly. Mr. Konstantinovic, I really don't understand you as a lawyer. The only thing I can explain to you is the intensity of your interpretation of the public authority holder - you forgot to talk, you forgot to listen, not just to the people, but also to the conversator. All the time, I've been telling you that we've been taking care of public authority holders, the owners, as defined by the Constitution, over which the ministry is overseeing and laying down regulations, as well as the ministries. The Ministry doesn't oversee any of those bodies you mentioned. The State Administration Act, we told you, will be the next phase, as well as the Civil Service Act, where, as soon as conditions are obtained, we will arrange and receive, not that this assistant you mentioned earlier has five salaries from the President of the Assembly or the President of the State, whatever his name is, to arrange the hierarchy and restore importance to the institutions. If you don't understand the law you wrote, then I'll tell you. Just because you're bringing us back to the agencies isn't an accident. You don't just do it because you forgot to talk, but because there is, not the forest, but the jungle institutions that charge from citizens of a variety of fees, parafiscal charges for monopoly in the performance of the work given to them by the state, from the fishing licenses, to the permits for some helicopters, to confirm whether people and how much action they have in the Central Register, to perhaps the agency that collects the report that you had an accident at sea, because we also have an accident agency in maritime navigation. As many as they are called special authorities, some are called institutions, and in fact, they are not a very precise difference, by their importance, in their involvement in the system of state administration and control of the government that is responsible to citizens, I return to the beginning, the answer to the citizens is because citizens choose the government and ministers. This government is determined to put into consideration the citizens – who is obliged to put their hands on them illegally or too much, so that you do not know, but to check and check the costs, so that each of the citizens can live better and that the civil servants, who do their job properly, receive a decent salary and that it is not the infamous job of a bureaucrat who, thanks to you, is largely 10 years back, reduced to a humiliating pessimistic term, and should not be. For the return of dignity, and for the citizen and employee of the state administration, we are fighting these first laws, which does not mean that we are not ready to accept every suggestion, because not everyone is the best on the currently winning side. There are good people, associates, smart people, and between you and me, and we'll be happy to accept suggestions. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u244	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u245	I'll be brief. I have no doubt, after what you said, that you have a bad intention, as a representative of the promoter, but not the one who wrote the law or doesn't know or has a bad intention. We have given you the opportunity, you will see in the amendments, that it stands – all public authorities whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then you have no problem with all these agencies, special services, organisations, institutions, everything established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, let the Government of the Republic of Serbia have control, control, etc., but not those who have public powers, whose founder is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such as the Law Chamber of Serbia, who has the public authority. It's not exactly set out in the law of whom it applies. Look at the amendments, we can, I mean, settle it with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u246	Thank you. For the remainder of the DS parliamentary group, MP Srdjan Mikovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u247	Public authorities are also the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, DRI, Anti-Corruption Agency and many others. It's because every law is the same, which is why I think amendments should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u248	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The next reported MP is Aleksandar Jotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u249	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, MPs SPO and DHSS will not vote for the proposed laws, or amendments and additions to the law in the voting day. The reason for that is more. Given that I have little time left, I would like to point out only one reason, and that is the urgency of the promoter to abolish the current Ministry of Religion and Diaspora, or form an office for the diaspora resolution... (President: I apologize, Mr. Chotric. I ask all MPs to allow Mr. Chotric to normally complete his presentation. Thank you. Thank you. I think you're going to give me these few seconds, given that we have as a parliamentary group just two more minutes, and it's a significant area I want to talk about, given that nearly three and a half million of our country's people, or Serbian citizens now live outside our country's borders, and that's almost half of our national Corps. I believe, and I'm almost certain that the office will not have the capacity to respond properly to these very complex and numerous obligations. It is the fact that since the establishment of multilaterals in Serbia, since 1990, there have always been ministries for Serbs outside Serbia, under different names, and that this area is so much more important, that the Constitution of Serbia, which expresses special care for citizens and our countrymen abroad, is also foreseen. I'm sure that this office won't be able to coordinate business properly with over 1,300 organizations of our diaspora that are in the ranks of these organizations. I want to say that we have already made a certain shift in relations with people living outside our country by passing laws in this home in 2009, which is the Law on Serbs in the region and the diaspora. The law will practically be inapplicable by the ministry's disappearance, as the office will not be able to rightly respond either to the existence of the diaspora Assembly, which has 45 members, or to the Council for Serbs in the region, or to other rights and powers arising under this law. One of the very important aspects of this co-operation is the economy, i.e. that our people from abroad are sending over five billion dollars to Serbia each year, primarily in light of the evidence that it is almost 15% of Serbia's GDP and that the diaspora members have invested about half a billion euros in the privatisation process in the past years and that nearly 20,000 people in Serbia are working in these companies today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chotric. The next registered speaker is Mr. Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u251	Mr. President, today's session is in fact a preparation for the formation of the government and on the agenda are three extremely important laws that give us some indication of what the government will look like, what its priorities will look like and what the government will do. We fully understand the proposal's intention to amend the Government Act. We remember how much trouble it was for the previous government to find out what the salaries of the directors of public enterprises, what the salaries of the directors of agencies and some other bodies are. We remember how much trouble there was with the various chambers that exist, which also have public authority. We believe that the proposed amendment, as technical as it may seem, is not precise enough and that it can create serious problems in application and that some of the amendments simply introduce additional clarifications and that their adoption of the law could fulfil its purpose, so that both the Government and the National Assembly could significantly strengthen control in those segments where they have not yet had it, and that the goal could also be fulfilled. As for the Ministry Act, it determines the structure of the ministries, the number of ministries. It is in some way a choice of government priorities and a choice of what the government will do. Personally, I believe that this law in the perspective should be abolished, as it does not exist in many countries, for the simple reason that the very way of organising work within the government is an internal matter of the government and that as the National Assembly and the citizens of our country are primarily interested in the results of that government, it is interested in how it solves problems and meets the objectives, and it is not too important what the ministry is doing. Today is not your popular comparison with Greece. Everyone wants them not to look like Greece, but the parliamentary elections in Greece were following parliamentary elections in Serbia. Since they did not form a government, parliamentary elections have been repeated, so the government received more than a month after the re-elections, and we are only discussing the Ministry Act today. It is clear that if we are talking about efficiency, we need to find models to solve problems more effectively in Serbia. Compared to some previous governments in the portfolio schedule is not exactly directed, because if we go back far enough, we will find all possible combinations in the resolution division. The state administration used to be with justice, and now it will be with regional development. Science was with environmental protection, with education, was independent, etc. So, in our practice, since the Constitution does not define any closer to organising governments, as it exists in some countries, there is always a Ministry Law defining the number of ministries. Then, simply in Serbia, we don't care that after every change of government, the last majority of parliament had two, she chose two governments, we see what the cost of changing is just those inscriptions on ministries, visa cards and memorabilia, ministerial sites and all that comes from that. Apparently, some technical things require enormous costs that we don't talk about here, and then we talk about savings that can be achieved in some positions. Just try to figure out how many offices and rooms all these ministries have and that in front of each of them should be a board with the name of the ministry. For this government, there are 17 ministries. It's interesting to look at the bill someone talked about in today's debate many hours ago. When the SNS was an opposition party, it proposed a composition of 12 ministries. Okay, coalition agreements, coalition agreements, but apparently the wishes are one thing and the coalition's wishes are another. Efficiency is not achieved only by the number of ministries. If the number of employees is going to stay the same, if they're just going to move from one office to another or if they're just going to change the board, it doesn't mean anything. The previous government, also under the pretext of efficiency and rationality, has reduced the number of ministries, but the number of employees has increased. So far from making any savings. There are only good and bad governments. There are only effective and inefficient governments. If it is suggested that this government has 17 ministries and four offices, we have been assured that none of the rights will be reduced, that none of the powers will be reduced. If that's the same, then why aren't they the ministries? If it's exactly the same ministry and the office, we don't see too much purpose. We carefully looked at the composition of the proposed ministries. We have not yet heard what the government programme will be, we will hear it Thursday at a session that is scheduled, but based on what we heard in public it seems to us that the priorities will be the EU, Kosovo, foreign investment, economy and departementation. Unfortunately, we do not see any of this from the Ministries because the EU ministry does not exist, there is only a Deputy Prime Minister who will have an office. There is no longer a Ministry of Kosovo, but there is a Office for Kosovo. Business and investment have been broken into several ministries, and this will only make the path to realising these investments more difficult. Several ministries were created from one ministry. The process of obtaining building permits and all other permits will be much more complicated if it is not in one ministry. But we'll talk about it in more detail Thursday, when we hear the exposés. However, based on these indications, it seems to us that problems can be expected. Of course, we don't know if there'll be a minister without a portfolio. If it is true it will, then a potential problem can be in the Ministry of Regional Development and a minister with no portfolio to deal with regional development of underdeveloped areas. That suggests a possible conflict. The spatial planning is usually not together in the ministry with urbanism and construction. Space planning is something other than urbanism, but it is closely linked to urbanism and construction. It is much more related to urbanism than it is to natural resources and, it seems, mining. It's a similar thing with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction. Because the Ministry of Transport deals with the construction of traffic infrastructure, and the Ministry of Urbanism and Capital Infrastructure Buildings. I don't know if there's any other infrastructure than capital and traffic. All of this points to potential problems in the functioning of these ministries. But it can be removed in the work of the government itself. Maybe that won't be a problem. We'll see about that. We have a few amendments. Our relationship with these laws in the voting day will depend on the debate under these amendments and we will declare ourselves afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u252	Thank you. As head of the parliamentary group, Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suppose the citizens are tired of listening and watching, but I want people in Serbia first of all, not the MPs, whom I am convinced they know, to point to one fact. Today, it seems to me, countless times and countless objections have heard about the number of ministries. We resented that there was no Ministry of Diaspora, the Ministry of Faith, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and many others. Then the same people resented us – and what do you have more ministries than you need? I have to tell you, then we're in a vicious circle, one of the circula Spiciosus, from which there's no going back. Whatever we do, no matter how good our intentions are, no matter what we do, nothing's wrong. Is that possible? So, when we reduce the number of ministries from all of you, and you've all been in governments since 2000, this is the smallest government, smaller than all of your governments, from 2000 to today from 10,000 you've increased to 32,000 civil servants. You who haven't even been chosen today give lectures about what we're going to do with civil servants, how we're going to do with them, how we're going to do with them. You have burdened the taxpayers of Serbia with so many people. Now I ask: Tell us, as God please, shall we have 30 ministries? We were offered to have four vice presidents, it was said that there should be more. We gave up on our fifth vice president's ratio, we gave it to one opposition party. We are really trying to show people in Serbia that we care about changing things. The only answer to all of this is – nothing is wrong and it is not good for completely opposite reasons. There's just no such thing as an explanation. If the goal is to attack someone, someone's act, a bill or anything, I understand that. But I can't understand in any way that in a serious way we're getting something that's better than it was in the previous period. In any case, better, more efficient, less and hints less costs and speaks about what should be done in the next period. It's not worth it again. So, I no longer ask anyone in the National Assembly, I want to ask the citizens of Serbia, those who have the patience to watch us, if they exist, I just want to ask these people to wait at least 100 days and see if Serbia is on a better path than it is today or not, whether we can do something for this country or not. Then let them judge and let them say that we are worse, worse, let them change us, let them seek new elections or anything else. We are confident that we will be able to achieve more serious results than the previous government. For this patience if we are unable to ask the MPs, I am only taking the opportunity to ask the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u254	National MP Radojko Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u255	I didn't quite understand if Mr. Wolf had been replicating directly to me, but he answered after me. I didn't say any of this to Mr. Wolfie. Let me ask myself myself, I said at first, I think the government's arrangement is an internal matter of government. By our laws, the ministry law must be passed. I personally advocate that such a law does not exist. Let the government arrange relations however they want. I'm interested in how many employees there are in the woods, how good or bad this government is doing, how will it handle the jobs? Who's going to do certain things, who won't, that's the government thing. When the government comes to the Assembly, we need to discuss its results. Since the law is on the agenda, I've only pointed out possible problems, based on the experience we've had, nothing more than that, we'll judge this government. Every government should get a chance, this government and its laws, we'll discuss its reports in the National Assembly, and then we'll talk about concrete things. This is the very beginning, we need to get to the government as soon as possible and start solving problems that Serbia has ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u256	Thank you. People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, who is next, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u257	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will not blame me for these late hours, but Pasic has said in time - what laws, laws are for opponents. Of course, this should not apply in modern Serbia and these laws that we are discussing today, I think they are just showing that this is not the case, because the Government Act and the Ministry Act regulate the way the government works and the functioning of ministries and special organisations. The proposal envisions an addition to the work of public authorities holders. All of us in this room know that she applies first of all to the agencies. All of us in this room, as well as Serbian citizens, know that all of this is very expensive, and the final result is that everything looks so cheap, that there is a huge number of these agencies. Of course, there is a need for some of them to function, but many of them were made only for the purpose of hiring party personnel and for individuals we discussed in this room, in previous years, to treat budgets and means they have, to buy official cars, to protect Serbia from nuclear attacks, to register cars on the plates of their hometown and to work a number of other abuses. It is possible to achieve significant savings, and of course we will give the new government an opportunity to show whether these savings will be saved and achieved. They are measured in hundreds of millions and will certainly be able to be used for much better purposes. This government law also applied to the still current government by Thursday. I only remind you that under this law the government determines and leads the politics of the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution and the laws and other general acts of the National Assembly. On the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court a few days ago, we see that the Government did not exactly comply with all the provisions of the Constitution, so many of the provisions proposed by the Government to this assembly and the previous assembly, or this meeting that was under discussion, were not in line with the Constitution. When the draft government law was adopted, we, as a parliamentary group of DSS, submitted an amendment to that famous member regarding the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. This was also put out of force by the Constitutional Court, or the member. We waited three years for it to happen at the Constitutional Court, as we were waiting to confirm that the unconstitutional provisions of the Vojvodina Statute and many members of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I will remind the representatives of the future government, that they will take an oath before this assembly. Some of the ministers who spoke tonight were five, perhaps even six times swearing before the National Assembly during their ministry over the past 12 years with longer or shorter breaks, and apparently they did not follow the text of those oaths in all their actions and in their work. Interestingly, it remained a provision on the discipline of government members, which was introduced after certain statements by former Minister Dinkic, so I recommend to Mr Dinkic, who has experience in warning government members that they should behave and that they should act in public, so that they do not come back to the awkward situation we had in the previous meeting. Also, what is most important for us as national representatives in this home is the government's attitude towards the National Assembly, because indeed the government has a legal obligation to report to the National Assembly within certain deadlines. Representatives of the government have a legal obligation to be present when certain laws are proposed to be resolutely in charge of ministers, that the budget does not come to be told by the Minister of Faith, as it was once envisaged, that the questions asked by MPs are answered by some answers that have nothing to do with what we are interested in, that in a written manner, when we refer the question we never get an answer. We can make a record of it. I hope that the future government will have much more understanding and respect, first of all, according to this higher home, which is not called by the ceiling being so high but by the highest representative body of Serbian citizens. As far as the ministry law is concerned, of course it's your choice and your decision and indeed the DSS has no intention of interfering with this bill. In that sense, we can only offer certain assistance with some of the proposals we have tabled to improve this text of the law. You've predicted a certain number of ministries, you've predicted their jurisdiction. Our job as an opposition party is to monitor the work of the government, to criticise everything we think is not well done and, of course, to propose solutions that will be in the interest of both the citizens of Serbia and all of us who work in this home. When Murinjo takes "Real" to the field and puts two in the back, he certainly won't ask the Guardiola if he'll play four backs. So what you've done, we have a complete understanding, of course, is a certain period to see how this government is going to work, and then you won't mind us saying that if we have objections and you can't blame us at the end of the day, we're criticizing the government's work. Serbia, unfortunately, has turned into a real circus in the last four years. The DSS, as one of the 45 parties that entered this parliament thanks to it, has now proved to be a crazy electoral legislation that the previous majority adopted, will work hard and fight really hard to disassemble the tent, disengage construction and send it far beyond the borders of this country. We believe that, in addition to the economic resors of agriculture that are very important for the future of this country, a lot of work will be done by the justice ministry and the state administration. For four years, the DSS in this room has been saying that today is not a reformation, but a deformation of the Serbian judiciary, and we will require the future government to determine the responsibility of all those in charge of such a disastrous reform of the judiciary. We have presented our presentations and our authorised representative, Mr Samardzic and colleague Obradovic, that we are not satisfied that this bill provides for the KIM office. We have submitted four amendments requiring the Ministry of Kim to return. We believe that this is extremely important and that this is a very important message for both the Serbs living in KIM and the international public. These are issues of crucial importance for preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We hope still, that's what we said, that in relation to the ruling majority according to our amendments, we will make a statement about this law. In this famous article of 38, which has been discussed a lot today for the resolution of civil servants, we really believe that it is a matter governed by the law on civil servants, that there is a procedure for how these people can be resolved and that is why the DSS has proposed that this member of the law be deleted. We have no doubt that you have good intentions, but we believe that abuse can occur, and that the current law now provides appropriate solutions because we are afraid that there will be serious confusion in practice that can occur after the possible layoffs of these people. As for the law on the basis of the security arrangements, we believe the provision of good is proposed. We saw in the previous period that Mr. Boris Tadic wanted to keep everything under his control, stick to the passwords – let it all go to mine. That's the past now. It's a river without going back and I don't want to waste my time, but I think the president of the Republic should appoint a council secretary, so it doesn't have to be the chief of staff. Someone who will perform the duties of the chief of staff and this job is not necessarily meant to be well understood in the work of the security service. It's a decision the President of the Republic himself is responsible for. It is not difficult to assume what we will hear in an exposé Thursday from the prime minister for the formation of the future government. In public, all the goals of the future government are more or less known. I would like to say that the DSS, as well as the previous 20 years, will insist on the preservation of the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia, the preservation of KIM within the Republic of Serbia, the development of the economy and the economy of this country. We know at which address you've been drinking the best fragrant tea in years ago. We are very interested in whether there will be a change in that address or whether it will remain at the present one. Very soon, it will prove that a reform of the state administration will be carried out, that the departmentalisation will be carried out, that it will mean firing people who are not members of your parties, but I am absolutely certain that it does not need ministers who are as good as Serbia is bad, and on the representatives of the ruling majority and the future government it is to show that it is different from their predecessors. Believe me, for four years, they spring very quickly, especially if you are in power, so we will have the opportunity to discuss your work many times and hope to fix many laws that will come into this congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u258	Thank you. The last registered speaker is Mr. Marko Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u259	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, in a way, as the last speaker here, it seems to me that I have a bit of an ungrateful duty, if that's what you can say, to talk about one subject, which is the abolition of the KIM Ministry. I feel like I'm reading the beads, because what's important, significant and important is that what's being abolished just doesn't come across a good reception with Serbs living downstairs. We do not plead to which political party will be at the head of the ministry, we do not plead any personal solutions to be, but what we stand for and what we believe is that the ministry has the capacity to defend KIM, not so-called. The office, because you'll have to admit it's still a lower level. What we have a chance to hear from the prime minister is to say it's all to be done in order to save. Personally, I would add that there may be another reason, which is to place the EU and KIM in the same plane. If the EU has an office, for God's sake, it has to be for KIM as well. The third perhaps evil languages say that the great flood of US diplomats has emanated to shut down the KIM Ministry. Speaking of saving itself, most people talk about saving, and at least it's said in this country what it's worth to kiM. What I have to say and what we all know is that Mr. Gordon's arrival has given five conditions or demands to the new government, not to tell five orders to the new government, where Serbia's third order to give up energy resources. What does that mean? It means Kosovo is extremely rich. Some believe the value moves between three and four thousand billion. Others say we have lignite and coal to exploit for the next eight hundred years. What's important to say is that Kosovo has large amounts of rare metals, such as titanium, sulfaram, vanadium, which are used in the aviation and cosmic industries. That's what we got down there. That's what we got down there. Besides, there's no need to tell you that, say, back in the Middle Ages, medieval Serbia was a strong country, just having mines and now to remind you, that's when the European Union came to work on Kosovo and Metohija, remember only the Sava miners. It's a so-called earthly, not celestial Serbia, that's what we have down there, and that's why a large number of people seem, unfortunately, to me, those so-called other Serbians want to get rid of this space. What we can say is that there is no reason for those who are pushing us, killing us, who, based on the organs of our people, are making their own country to be rewarded with such wealth. Speaking of saving itself, it seems to me that the prime minister has said he will not be the Ministry of Cosmet, but every ministry will have a part that will deal with Kosovo. So instead of one big ministry, we'll have 16 little ministers. We would not want to deal with Kosovo in such a way as the previous government had dealt with, in a situation where KFOR was breaking up Serbian blockades and barricades, our gendarmes were literally putting on phantoms, removing our barricades and excavating the so-called alternative roads. However, later our gendarmes gave one new anthem, we are grateful for it, if for nothing else even to show this country to Serbia that money is not the most important thing in the world. Speaking of saving itself, a large number of people know to say, and the next fact of these down in Cosmet, that the government has actually signed a treaty with EULEX on borders and since we belong, so-called, the diaspora might be able to join together the Office for Kosovo and the Diaspora Office for Diaspora and here's a way for a new government or a new government to save funds. Others even say this -- given the great announcements, first of all, the people of the new government need to diverge with Albanians and then think that if the Serbs should already get some, then we don't need the ministry, but the office itself is enough. Although, somebody's gonna say we went well, because for God's sake, we could've gotten a counter, so imagine what that would look like and it would've worked. We're going to the counter to resolve the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. There may be a way to fix all this, though. Perhaps the office will come and its headquarters will be in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Maybe that office will call the county election tomorrow and we can form a circuit executive council down there. I doubt it myself, because it seems to me that when two political parties in charge of the new government have not sent their people out to the local elections, I don't think they'll have the courage to bite this big cake, which is calling the country's elections. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very end, it seems to me that time is running out, I want to say that we Serbs from the north of Kosovo were looking forward to winning Tomislav Nikolic. It was celebrated late in the night, people were thrilled, thought that there was a break-up with a treasonous policy that the previous government had worked and performed, which was manifested by known agreements. Unfortunately, the message to abolish the ministry is very poor among Serbs. We would not want that, and we are afraid that there is not one principle or foreign exchange that we have had the opportunity to hear from the minister who was in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who says Kosovo's defence is collective madness.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u260	Thank you. There are 18 minutes left for the SNS parliamentary group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint search, I give the word to the SNS parliamentary group president, Mr Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u261	I would like to say because of Serbian citizens that Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Republic, and anyone else has no intention of playing with the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia. I will have easy answers, very easy answers to remarks why there is no Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because I would ask you a simple rhetorical counter question – we don't have a Ministry of Piroth, we don't have a ministry for Novi Sad, we don't have a Ministry for Vojvodina, we don't have a ministry for any other part of Serbia. For us, Kosovo and Metohija Serbia is as much as Piroth, just as Vojvodina, as much as any other part of Serbia. That's why we're not making a difference and we're not dividing them into a ministry for every region of our beautiful country. I don't think there's anything you can say to that explanation. I know what's behind all this. He's hiding behind everything, and Phil Gordon's here to give you orders, to give you orders. That's not how Mr. Jaksic talks to us. Mr. Gordon came and said what their demands were, many others came, many others would come. In the modern world, we need to hear what these people think and then stay and see what we're going to do and what we're going to say, but that someone came to hold our pucks and tell you what it is that we have to do and do, I have to admit that it's not true and that it hasn't happened in that way. I also want to tell you, in Kosovo and Metohija, there are no Titans, no ulphrans, no valadiums, no anything else. We'd be just as glad to have Kosovo and Metohija if it were a stone. Because it is our country as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes. I know it's the easiest thing to say today -- you don't have a ministry, you don't tell the Serbs in Chicago -- and you don't have a ministry, and otherwise they had a lot of fun when they had those ministries. While we had the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, it was wonderful for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. All the flowers flourished for them so that one Miljkovic could get all the jobs, so the money could disappear every day. Half the money disappears on the way to the Kings, half disappears from the Kings to Kosovo Mitrovica or if it goes somewhere south of Ibra. That's what we need to change the office assignment, not the counter, because we don't have a counter for other parts either. It is true that all ministers will deal with Kosovo and Metohija. It is their job, it is their obligation, because they will deal with all other parts of the Republic of Serbia. So it will be the responsibility of that office that deals with Kosovo and Metohija, but also with all the other ministries to do everything to preserve the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and otherwise the talks will not be easy and I will not deceive you at all, I will not lie to you or anyone else. It is true that there will be pressure and we will not lie to our people that they are gone and that there will be none. At the same time, we'll have to do our best to do the next thing, Mr. Jaksic, that when you look on the south side of Mitrovica to the north, we don't see any more derailed facades, but we'll see just as beautiful facades as the Albanians did in the southern part of Mitrovica. To watch more factories in northern Mitrovica, to watch factories in Zvecan and Zubin Potok, Leška and Leposavic, to watch the same factories or even more beautiful in Gracanica and in Gorazdevac and in every other place in Kosovo and Metohija. It has to be our policy. Is that what we're gonna do? I have to tell you it's going to be very difficult, but I don't think you believe it yourself, we've known each other for so many years, so you'd think or want to say, hey, you're just like some of the others we talked about very badly together. I don't think everything's going to be ideal. You'll find and you'll have reason to criticize a lot of things. You will have reason to say: this is not what we would like. But that, too, we would love it if it could all be like that. But it's just not gonna be that easy. And that it may be; We have delivered to you KIM, and we have neither the right nor the right nor the right. We have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the Holy Scriptures for every citizen of this country and there is no discussion about it. I have one more thing to say. The Serbian Progressive Party had no problem in co-operation with the DSS. We didn't have that kind of problem, I have to say again, not after the election. Some others are. When I talk about it and by that you can see that we didn't take orders. What's very important is that we can't help but think about the continent, about a wider, bigger scene, about where and how Serbia can stay and survive, because, as you know, Serbia is almost on the verge of hunger today. While we're talking here tonight, we have to think about how we're going to fill in the budget deficit, how and how we're going to pay off our pensions, because they destroyed everything, everything's gone, there's absolutely no money anywhere. How and in what way are we going to return -- let's say, RZO only owes "Stadi", only "Hemofarm" owes 90m euros. I ask you people, how do you think we can ensure that there are drugs in the drugstores? TV and the DS newspaper will say – did you see how incompetent the new government is, and they left us 200m euros only in RZO debt. In every sphere of social life, everything is the same. It's all the same everywhere. We don't know where or how to hold our heads and what to do. Come and help. Let's see, let's give any solution in any way. We don't have a problem with that. There's neither such a kind of vanity nor political vanity nor anything. One more thing I'm sure you noticed. Before, somehow, five, maybe ten years ago, there was always this political animosity -- we all have our own party, so let's be selfish that way. I'm sure you've noticed that with us, for at least two or three years, it doesn't exist at all. For one second we're not just fighting for it – let's have one percent more and you have one percent less. First of all, we fought for what is what we can do and how to make something better for Serbia. Don't be surprised if tomorrow, or in three months, or in six months, we say, "I'm sorry, it's obvious we can't accomplish something, so somebody can say if they're able to do better and whether they can do more, although I hope the government will last four years and we can achieve good results. It's just that the state of the country is terrible. It's awful in every way. You'll be able to criticize whatever you want, only someone has to ask themselves – excuse me, how did we get into this situation? How did we come to the situation that Albania today has a single euro higher salary of 348 euros and we have 347 euros, that Montenegro has 493 euros? How did we get there? How did we get to have more than twice as low average incomes as in Croatia? Again all day we listen to tirads, we listen to lectures, we hear them explain that we are the most successful on the globe of the earth, and that we are all incompetent, because, by the first law we passed in the congregation, we are approximately ignorant, illiterate, or I don't know what. They were so written, they were able to do only one thing -- to become the richest in this country, to have them live well, and to have everyone else be poor and to have our whole people without any perspective, that people don't know how to educate children, how to feed their own. At best, as a friend, as someone I've known so many years, I want to tell you -- yes, doubt it, yes, criticize us. You'll have, I'm sure, a reason for that. We'll try to reach that kind of consensus around KIM. We'll try to tell you -- yes, we had to do something you didn't like, so we'll tell you why we had to do something. Criticize that too, but please do not doubt the best intentions we have for both our people in KIM and our country and our people in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u262	Does anyone else want a word from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not yet used their rights? Right on the line. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u263	What we all know is that there's no need for every place to be a ministry. It's clear to all of us. What we know is, let's say, the UK has had the Ministry of Northern Ireland for decades. In the area where you have a problem, this country is building a special ministry, because there are greater capacities to solve this problem. For that reason, we believe the ministry should remain. On the other hand, we have witnessed what the KIM Ministry has done in the past four years, no matter what the minister was from our space. If that ministry worked badly, it doesn't necessarily mean it's being abolished. On the contrary, it should also be shown in a different way to do much better than what Mr. Goran Bogdanovic was doing. At the very end, it is that we need everything down in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Some will say food, others will say factories, third jobs. What we need most and what we expect most from our country, first of all, is freedom, and freedom itself knows that there is no price. Regardless of all, I hope that all together, all together, we will try to give our people freedom, that we will not allow Tahiri-Stefanović to live up to the agreements, and if there is freedom in one part of Kosovo and Metohija, I personally think that as a virus, it will spill into other parts. That's why I think my entire replica is meant to say that the ministry is very important and important to stay, because with it we will be much better at defending Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-24-0.u264	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Before we finish the joint principle search, I would just like to remind you that we have scheduled the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for tomorrow at 3:30 p.m., and that we will first have at 10.00 p.m. this session to discuss the amendments. A new session, a special session is scheduled for Thursday at 15pm with agenda – the government's election and the oath of members of the government. I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on ministries, a draft law supplementing the Law on Government and a bill amending the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
