ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u266	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 120 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since Thursday, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, you have the right to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u267	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are, of course, obviously in an interregnum. Today, a new government is elected, but I would not like certain things to remain undetected and that, simply in a certain way, the dignity of this parliament is violated and now the outgoing and future governments and generally all state institutions of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, news appeared during the night that outgoing Technical Minister of Foreign Affairs Vuk Jeremic is today on an official bilateral visit to the Russian Federation. I ask for a notice, or explanation from the government of the Republic of Serbia, there is Mr Cvetkovic, but from this parliament, from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on what basis today is Mr Jeremic staying in Moscow? You know, it's pretty unusual. This afternoon, Mr. Jeremic will not be officially the foreign minister of this country. He's having bilateral talks in Moscow today. I checked whether the topic of the talks was just his future chairmanship of the General Assembly. In an official statement by the Russian Federation's foreign ministry, it is said that the excessive purpose of his visit today is to discuss the bilateral relations between our two countries. I think such a decision, that is, the fact that Mr. Jeremic today in Moscow is in advance of both credibility and future government. I don't see any particular reason to rush that visit. Serbia is not a big or influential country enough to have such meetings and such visits to the Russian Federation's foreign ministry every 10 or 15 days or every month. I think this simply denied the chance of a new foreign minister being elected today to the new government to organise such a meeting at the most recent time. If the purpose of this visit is to further promote Mr. Jeremic, then I really think it must end or, on the other hand, Mr. Jeremic is a representative and new government policy, so today he is in Moscow. This is a very unpleasant situation, the leaving government is practically no longer there, except for Mr. Jeremic, but I would like to know if possible, there is Mr. Cvetkovic, who is still prime minister in the technical mandate, as the government has decided on this journey by Mr. Jeremic and does the government consider it normal that on the last day of office, practically in the last hours of the term, Mr. Jeremic represents the policy of this country, which we do not know on whose name he represents? Perhaps the new government will have at least a partially different policy. In any case, it is her right to establish the new platform and therefore to take certain external political moves. That's my first question here. I see in this room some other ministers who are still ministers or there will be ministers by this afternoon. Any one of them could have been somewhere. Mr. Stefanovic may have been able to be in Pristina or Brussels today, Mr. Sutanovac at a carnival, yet they are decent enough and sufficiently trained to act as MPs now and not use that time by technical ministers or officials of the outgoing government just until the last second. The second issue concerns one very important thing, which is the question of the election of the Simeon, or the Protector of the Citizens. That question is open to the public. You know, a few days ago, the term of office of former citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic, who, in our professional and general public, the government did not share the belief that he was doing his job well. The previous assembly of the Assembly failed to fulfil its legal and constitutional obligation to elect a new one before the mandate of outgoing Manchester expires. I remind you that the procedure was launched in the last session at the end of February and early March, and that there is a valid proposal before this Parliament that Mr Jankovic should be re-elected to the post. Among others, such a proposal was submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the LDP parliamentary group. This request or proposal to the former constitutional approval, today to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, remains valid and we expect this assembly to be declared at the most recent time on this proposal or to be informed that the parliamentary groups in this assembly or parliamentary groups of the ruling majority intend to propose and choose someone else as the future protector of citizens. I think it's important that we know that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u268	Thank you. As far as your questions are concerned, you will have, of course, we will refer a parliamentary question to both Mr. Jeremic and the representatives of the government, in line with the possibilities, given the facts that you have pointed out yourself. As for your second question, I will have consultations with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs of the majority, but I think I can tell you that this question that you mentioned about the Guardian of Citizens will be on the agenda next week, so I think we can look at it that way. Thank you. Does anyone else, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure, he wants to use his right to ask questions and explanations? No, I don't. We continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Branko Ruzic. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MINISTRATIVES LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Ivan Andrić, Natasa Mić, Bojan Đurić, Judita Popović, Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Sanja Jefić Branković, Zoran Ostojić, Zarko Korać, Ranka Savić, Milenko Dereta, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Čanak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Đorđe Stojšić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Samardžić, Olgica Batić, Aleksandar Južić and Aleksandar Čortić, Dragan Šutanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Milica Delević, Srdjan Miković, Oliver Dulic, Milovan Marković, Zlata Djerić and Dubravka Filipovska, Slobodan Homen, Marijan Marjan Šović, Marijan Šović, Mira Šilić, Mirić, Mirjadić, Mirjadić, Mirjavić, Mirjadić and Mirić. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. National MP Srdjan Shain, 24 July 2012, wrote on the way, withdrew the amendment to Article 10. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. A group of 14 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u269	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a chance today to discuss in detail this ministry law. This member of the 2nd defines 17 ministries of the future government. So there are more ministries than the number that was initially proposed. In 2008, the LDP proposed reducing the number of ministries and we proposed that it be 12 ministries. We expected the past government to correct its position on the ministries, and it was partly done at the end of the term of office. So that position was accepted, and that opinion, and in fact it was realized how rational it was that we had a smaller number of ministries. Now the new future government is also repeating the same mistake the previous one has made because 17 ministries are proposing instead of a much more rational number. With this amendment, we wanted to help the new government in terms of rationalising individual ministries and their work and competences. Unfortunately, we haven't come across an understanding, although there is talk of change, there is talk of rationalization and there is talk of a new system and a way of thinking about the functioning of this country. So, there's some kind of modernisation going on. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the change that was the subject of the campaign is misunderstood as one of the very important future desires of the government because it would particularly draw attention to the fact that all party, or coalition partners, are still at peace. It is also a picture and an opportunity of this Article 2 because it is absolutely pointless for individual ministries, such as foreign and internal trade, to formulate and define themselves as one of the separate ministries. Therefore, from what has been announced, and this is a change in terms of a much higher level of governance of this country, it is obvious that it is somehow losing power, and we cannot expect it to bear fruit. The change is not only in terms of changing and changing employees as provided for in Article 38 of this proposal, nor is it a change in terms of ministers, or coalition in power. The change is when it really comes to reforms of the state and society, but this Article 2 does not indicate that this reform will actually take place.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u270	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u271	Dear President, fellow MPs, I just want to say that LSDV has submitted this amendment with the intention of showing that the schedule of the ministries, as proposed, is not appropriate. It is not good for the reason that some ministries are being doubled, and some ministries that are really important, which would be in the Republic of Serbia, would serve to develop and perhaps otherwise present before the EU, are not included in the current government at all. We have suggested that a single ministry be formed, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Finance and Business, because we have indeed seen that some of the responsibilities and tasks to be carried out by that ministry are directly overlapping. We've proposed the Department of Justice, the state administration and local self-government. This has been together so far and indeed the powers and affairs of the state administration, local self-government and the Ministry of Justice were meant to be together. I am sorry, not only as members of the national community living in Serbia, which has been abolished by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I think that it should be formed with the reason that national minorities have indicated that they are compact in the Republic of Serbia, that here we individual live 260 years and simply our life and work should follow one ministry. Since the elections are coming in two years for national councils, and we know that nearly half a million members of the national communities are voting in these elections, I don't know who will follow the work, not only the human and minority rights portfolio, but also the elections ahead. We also suggested that the Ministry of Infrastructure be one ministry. The ministry of energy, natural resources, mining, environmental protection, too, can be one resort. Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Business, Trade and Regional Development as one special ministry and Ministry of Technological Development and Telecommunications.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u272	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Bogdanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, as the KIM Ministry is known to have been for five years and regardless of many shortcomings and many of the problems it has faced, unfortunately, the government has decided that such a ministry no longer exists in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Given the fact that there is a huge perception in the public and here in Serbia and the KIM itself, that what-what is happening down there is beyond the knowledge of the state authorities, I think that this ministry that has contributed in the past five years should continue with this activity and go towards solving the problem. Especially now in this situation when we face great challenges, big problems. Especially now when we expect a continuation of dialogue and implementation of the agreements reached in Brussels. The position, both mine and the DS, is well known that the KIM ministry should have been one hat for all the institutions that exist in the KIM area in order to unite the functioning and strengthening of the Serbian institution in the KIM alone. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment to add to point 18, on the basis of Article 2, the KIM Ministry. I must also tell you, it could have been heard these days, when we spoke about why the ministry was shut down, that the office that is in the announcement would have the same jurisdiction, the same competence. Then the question arises – which is why these 17 ministries are not offices. To make more savings, as you say. I have submitted another amendment, which I will discuss later, on the status of workers in the ministry itself. It is known that these people, unlike other decommissioning ministries, have lost their jobs, have stopped working tomorrow, have remained at the mercy of the future government and that party personnel can be re-employed at the ministry. I want to take the opportunity to appeal to the ruling coalition's MPs, however, to vote, in addition to all the savings, for the KIM Ministry to remain, but for this ministry to truly be a cap to all the institutions in the KIM area. For this reason, I call on the Members to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u274	The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u275	I just want to let the public know that not only the employees of the KIM Ministry, but everyone employed in any organisational part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, this law does not leave them without a job or at someone's mercy or mercy, but, in accordance with the law, is being taken over into the organisational parts of the government, which I hope today will be voted on in the affairs that have so far worked in some different redistribution of parts of the state administration. It's not true that their working relationship, in no time, stops. I want to inform everyone that we have reserved a decision to publish these decisions today, when they are adopted and voted, and that new solutions to people are issued with such deadlines and dates that they absolutely have no concern for existence, because we are making laws about people. The government exists because of the citizens of Serbia and the very work that we have not taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u276	Thank you. The word has Goran Bogdanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u277	Dear President, the honourable MPs, Mrs Tabakovic, I completely understand what you said, but it doesn't appear in the law anywhere. Which is why all the ministries that are being shut down are being taken over by some other ministries, and only the KIM Ministry, i.e. The workers at the KIM Ministry have remained unscheduled. I totally understand and I believe that's how it's gonna be, but it just doesn't say it anywhere here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u278	Thank you. Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, as president of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u279	For all those who remain in the organisational form of the ministry, this is individually stated. For those actions that will be carried out in the offices, they are resolved by group. Don't make a dilemma about people at all. You're talking about whether the ministry will have the same number of secretaries, officials, or I don't know, people in charge, and we're talking about that every employee in the ministry will continue to work in the organisational work, as this law provides, and that in no way have they been brought into a subordinate position by workers who are employed in this ministry. After all, you will get a precise formulation, only until we agree here the text that the amendments of the adopted ones have been adopted. I'll tell you in person that we're not making a mistake with the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u280	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u281	The DSS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to this Article 2 in Article 1 which reads as follows: "Dot 18 is added. KIM Ministry." We have submitted an amendment to what does not appear in this article and in this law, and not to what it says, although we have had a lot of objections and what it says. That's what we talked about the day before yesterday, when we were talking about the Ministry Act in principle. According to our deep conviction, the resolutions are not well and rationally distributed to the ministries. We have at least five objections to how the ministries are composed. But, as important as that may be, the question of the functioning of the future government and the state, of course, these issues are not even close to the seriousness and drama, if you will, to the extent that the Ministry of KIM is shut down, and in this sense, how much of a question could be added to this ministry and the adoption of our amendment. The fact that the KIM Ministry has been deleted from the list of ministries, i.e. The future government, there's a lot of bad effects, a lot of bad effects, of course. But I'll only draw attention to some because there's not enough time to make this problem very explicit. Kosovo and Metohija, we should not talk about this, is the biggest problem in this country for years and will remain the biggest problem for years. Already, that fact speaks enough of the fact that the government, in particular the government, has given him special treatment. At the level of talks on the government's structure in the ministries, this appropriate treatment could be a ministry. What the government can do is, with full steam and in the highest capacity, do the issue, organise it, solve it, fight daily for the survival of KIM within Serbia. When the Ministry was created in 2007, that is exactly what we were handling, although it was the previous form, the Coordination Centre, not that it wasn't working badly, but it was doing very well, and it was fully fulfilling the tasks of government and state, but we saw that this should be raised to even higher levels for various other reasons. I'll tell you one of them right away. He's, like, organizational and nature of authority. Just imagine the government having an office and discussing it. The KIM Minister, or the person in charge of KIM, if he does not have equal status with the other ministers who are discussing it, if the head of the office of some service, or the Coordination Centre, as was previously the case, will not be able, nor will he regularly attend meetings of the Government, where there is always some aspect of the KIM issues being discussed, will not be able to vote with the Government on this matter on a regular basis, as well as other ministers in the context of their resolutions, present in this. It will be an office that will always be in organizational terms a secondary factor in relation to the ministries that, partially and ad hoc, will solve one of the KIM issues. Just look at that organizational aspect and see what the benefits were that the Ministry existed. Another problem is one bad effect on both the internal opportunities and the international community. Of course, I don't think there were any bad intentions about this failure in the Ministry Act, but believe me, this coincidence of time, this senseless demand of the Western forces that we slowly shut down our institutions at KIM and this move that the government is going to make to the office, is therefore a kind of result that is not favourable to the country's strategy -- to defend KIM. I'm talking about the coincidence of time, I'm not talking about any intentions, especially not bad intentions, but you also have to take care of the objective effects of your actions. They are for countries that are friends of an independent Kosovo, something they will welcome, perhaps not explicitly, but in some mutual contacts, they will see it as a good move. That can't be a good move for us, not for the state, not for the government, if you're praised by someone who works in an independent Kosovo. That's for sure. As far as the internal effects of this move are concerned, they are also bad. You have to take care of that, too. Among Serbian citizens, there is a huge view that KIM must be defended as part of the state. What are they going to say about this move, that the state's functioning in that thing is going down, and in particular, that desperate effect that will be for our citizens on KIM? Those people who, for their loyalty to Serbia, paid for everything they could. I speak of 99% of the people who live there. Let's not talk about some profiteers or some people who are allegedly criminal structures, etc. We're talking about people who share good and evil there with this unregulated KIM status. Finally, perhaps the worst thing in everyday functional terms is that you will not have clear areas of business, the powers that the Ministry has so far had. I'll talk about it later, when I talk about Amendment 19, and that's why I'm not talking about it right now. In general, it's the worst that the government could do when it passed the ministry law with the worst possible damages. Perspective, it can't be sustainable. We can criticise the Ministry for how it worked in the previous and previous term. It's not a problem and it'll always be a topic. Please don't throw out a child with dirty water. That can't happen. This government must especially not happen, which it has in its programme, in its coalition agreement at item 2 on the preservation of KIM as part of Serbia. It really seems like a certain release of kiM to one of its spontaneous fates. The fate not decided by this government and this state, but by the acquisition of international circumstances, the good or bad will of one or a group of participants in international relations, when it comes to kim, so we will see whether the constitution is in favour of us or not, whether we will perhaps put it into the service of some of the more important strategies of the state, such as European integration and becoming an EU member, etc. Such issues cannot be related functionally or in any other way to the issues of the existence of the state itself. The territory of the state is part of its existence, and if you will, its definition. In our inner sense, this isn't about territory. This is about a lot more, more important and fateful for this country's life. So don't do this. Add item 18, as we suggest and, if necessary, the Democratic Party of Serbia will invest all of its knowledge and experience that exists, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, to help both the government and the ministry in what is needed to function properly. That is why our indeed great appeal to the ruling majority to adopt this amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u282	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I am taking this opportunity to inform you that you have been given a decision on the assignment of Members of Parliament to fill the seats in the National Assembly, which we have received from the Republic Election Commission. I ask all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, whose MPs have been assigned mandates, that these MPs be in the 12.00-hour assembly, and after the debate on the details of the first item of the agenda, we will organise, in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, the swearing of newly elected Members of Parliaments. Also, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues on the mandate, so that, in this direction, I would ask that we allow new Members to enter the National Assembly after 12.00 hours. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djorđe Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is for Mrs. Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u283	I've already said in my previous explanation that indeed some ministries, responsibilities and jobs of some ministries have been doubled. This is especially evident from the finance ministry that needs to be formed. The name of the new ministry will be the Ministry of Finance and Business. I especially think that's where this economy is supposed to move from here to some other resort. The economy's portfolio should be transferred to another ministry and the finance ministry only deals with finance. In particular, I do not know why the Ministry of Finance will deal with taxes, fees, penalty payments in tourism, the competitiveness of tourism products, tourist markets, the conditions of carrying out tourist agencies, catering work, nautical, ski fields, the provision of ski services, so we suggested that the Ministry of Finance deal only with the portfolio of finance in the Republic of Serbia, and the economy to be in another ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u284	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? A group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ranka Savik, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u285	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, in the affairs of the Ministry of Finance and Business, there is no mention of industry as a separate part of the economy. I also think we don't need to remind much of how difficult the situation is in the industry, but I would still have the need to introduce citizens and MPs to the fact that Serbia, by the number of real sector employees, is in the industry, where every 24 people in the industry, is in line with undeveloped African states. So I absolutely believe that industry had to be, as part of the economy, particularly isolated and particularly treated. Therefore, it was necessary to establish the obligations and responsibilities of the Ministry in the revitalisation, development and in particular in the re-industriousisation of this sector, so far as we have heard in pre-election campaigns that special attention will be paid to industry, especially revitalisation of the economy. So that's what I had an obligation to make, because at the very end of the line, these promised workers took seriously and at least what they expected was for the industry to be particularly apostrophe.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u286	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of 14 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Aleksandar Jugovic and Aleksandar Jotric. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The speaker of the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group, Mr Aleksandar Jugovic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u287	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, MPs, dear President, if we wish not to lose ties to the diaspora and pay attention to the diaspora resolution, then it is necessary to accept this amendment, in order to put the diaspora resolution in the form of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's a lot of arguments for that. First, within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is already a Diaspora Directorate, so it is not overall, nor logical, nor rationally building a parallel state body to deal with the same business. If we're setting up a state and a society, that's what we should do in quality and thorough and take care of facts. Such a legal solution would remove not only the Ministry of Diaspora, but also the work of the ministry, which is to preserve, strengthen and achieve the ties of the Serbian state with about 3.5 million of our people and over 1,300 organisations on all five continents. That's a very bad message we're going to send to our people. They'll take it as if we gave them up. You know of similar appeals that the representatives of our diaspora associations have already addressed to Serbia President Tomislav Nikolic and I hope you will take into account, given that the SNS campaign has been personalised, quite, and that the campaign has just been led by the president of Serbia and I believe that those appeals from the diaspora should be heard and all their requests answered, since they have, in the last few decades, been the key to the stability of the economy and businesses in Serbia. Part of our legal system makes the Diaspora Act and Serbs in the region, which was adopted in 2009 and which defacto will be impossible to implement, since the law stipulates that jobs are carried out by the ministry responsible for diaspora affairs, which is certainly not an office. So it has to be the Ministry. If such a legal solution remains, there will be no ministry in charge of diaspora affairs, and the office, or special service established by the Government, will not have the mandate, nor the capacity to carry out those tasks adequately. I particularly stress that when writing the Law on Diaspora to Serbs in the region, there was a deliberate use of the syntagma – the Ministry of Diaspora Affairs, not the Ministry of Diaspora, in order to avoid and overcome exactly this situation in the future. The adoption of the Law on Diaspora to Serbs in the region was a historic shift towards improving relations with diaspora and Serbs in the region. With its adoption, the Republic of Serbia has shown its firm determination to be a state that shows genuine concern for its countrymen living and working abroad, as well as genuine concern for the preservation of Serbia's national identity. This is witnessed today by the fact that the state in the region, modelled by the Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, adopted by the Republic of Serbia and its legal solutions, is installing similar legal acts that regulate the area. For example, this already does Croatia and does Slovenia. Since the establishment of the Diaspora Ministry until today, when you plan to abolish it, very important things have been arranged for inclusion, I repeat, about three and a half million of our people and over a thousand and three hundred organizations in the social, political, economic and all other flows of the country, their origins, which, we can say freely, love more than we who live in it, because they have shown this by their constant participation in Serbia's life, the continuing desire to invest, the continuing drive to return to Serbia, and I don't think that the state of Serbia has taken sufficient care of its diaspora in the past few decades. The national strategy adopted has been established and successfully operational with the Assembly of 45 delegates from all over the world. What's going to happen to these people? What will happen to all the work that was done in the previous period, concerning the relationship between Serbia, diaspora and Serbs in the region? We often like to talk about how we are patriots, and when it is necessary to show our desires somehow, and it seems to me in this case that more is a matter of compromise and to satisfy individual ministerial appetites and party appetites, we are ready, or the future government is ready to give up the works of the national Corps that makes up almost half of the national Corps. The reason for establishing stronger ties lies in the economic potential of the Serbian diaspora. According to World Bank estimates, about five billion dollars have entered Serbia based on foreign exchange records each year. That's what I'm talking about right now, and this expression says that we're the 13th country in the world by the participation of the diaspora foreign currency in the total social gross product. This is one of the reasons that there is something better living in Serbia than official statistics show, and this is another indicator that also makes it necessary for Serbs living in Serbia and for Serbian citizens, not only Serbs, to respect diaspora ties. The abolition of the diaspora work cycle does not achieve budget savings, which is 0.02% of the total budget, but represents and means the largest slap on the entire diaspora, which will cost the state of Serbia multiplely and the pummeled trust that has barely succeeded, as much as it has to ease. With this decision, the queen and diaspora's relationship will fall to the lowest possible level and I think we will never be able to count on the Serbian diaspora again as future potential, Serbia's investment and its economic development. So, I'm going to repeat again, this is breaking up the relationship with a third of our population living outside the country's borders. This interrupts the preservation of the national, religious, cultural, linguistic and any other identity, the contribution to improving the image of our country and our people. All those living in the diaspora contribute, and this will be demoted to represent Serbia adequately. It is necessary for Serbia to treat people living outside Serbia in a special way in the future. You are leaving the Serbs living in Croatia, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina with the proposed arrangement of the Diaspora Ministry, leaving them with assimilation and leaving them in a subordinate position compared to the majority population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u288	Thank you. People's MP Janko Veselinović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u289	Thank you, Your Honor. In my presentation in the general section, when we talked about this law, I expressed great disappointment with the fact that this government decided to abolish, among other things, the Ministry of Diaspora. Of course, disappointment is also with the fact that the Ministry of National Minorities and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija are abolished in the way this government did. In this case, DS reminds you, on behalf of the DS, that DS was the one who proposed along with other coalition partners of the Diaspora and Serbs Act in the region, that DS had very intense contacts with Serbs in the region who, as Mr Jugovic said, were under the heavy burden of previous wars which, not to mention, were led in what way and how these people were left in one period without protection. You are now ending this story by abolishing their ministry. What is also important is that this law on diaspora and Serbs in the region and the president of the Republic has an obligation to speak to Serb representatives in the region once every three months. That's how these people were cared for. This is how you don't betray both the law and those people. In the end, you and this fact that you have abolished the ministry, without transitional provisions that worry about employees in the ministry, without transitional provisions that would determine who will be doing the jobs from today on behalf of the ministry, left those people out of the law, as you left outside the law and national minorities and the law and the position of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. primarily the care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It's your national policy that you've talked about so much in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u290	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u291	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that Mr Dacic, Mr. Bajatovic and the chairman of the Service Control Commission are not here. It is simply that what has been done in the bill has been made harsh mistakes, where we have first made a complaint in Article 6(1) that the surveillance and notification services, as well as the planning and organisation and preparation of civil protection in the event of emergency and wartime are deleted, because as part of the reform that was carried out between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, the Emergency Act has removed these jobs from the Ministry of Defence. I don't know why, or I can imagine why on the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government this amendment was rejected, it's obviously one practice that the amendments to the opposition ad hoc are being rejected, but I think there's a big mistake and there's a conflict with the Emergency Law. If the idea and the urgency of the Emergency Act is to change in the next period, I would have an understanding, but this is how we're going to get to having conflicting laws. On the other hand, Article 6 paragraph 3 states: Military Security Service, Military Intelligence, and the Law on the Fundamentals of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency are clearly defined names, i.e. the names of those services. There is no longer a military security service, as there is no military intelligence. I simply think that it must be accepted, this is not a matter of politics, this is a question of what is in principle and I expect that in the day of voting, the legislator still accepts these amendments. If not, you will have one situation to address very serious and important matters, concerning the defence of the country and civil protection, you have dualism in the laws that will make it impossible for our country and our citizens to manage in an adequate way, or defend themselves in that situation. So, I think, if it's established as a practice that the amendments to the opposition ad hoc refuse, it's very bad. It is necessary to read the laws well and adopt them because these are, believe me, done by people who are experts on these issues. No matter what I signed, he could have signed anyone. I appeal first and foremost to those people who deal with security and defense to adopt these amendments. I'll be glad if they show that they understand why we're looking for it. I repeat again, there is no policy, no divinity if these amendments are adopted. If not, I'm sorry, there's gonna be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u292	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u293	The President-in-Office, this amendment makes it clear that the ministry's jurisdiction stemming from the text describing the ministry's competence. Article 7 paragraph 3 states – The Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government shall carry out the tasks of the state administration relating to the realisation of infrastructure projects of regional and local importance financed or co-financed by the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that it is necessary to stand for the name and infrastructure of this ministry because we clearly say that the three ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will deal with road construction. I will remind the Ministry of Transport, Article 8, says – The Ministry of Transport is doing the tasks of the state administration in the areas of rail, road, water and air transport relating to the management and security of the traffic system, the implementation of projects, the construction of traffic infrastructure. Then the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism in the position of Article 9, says – The Ministry of Construction and Urbanism performs the tasks of the state administration which also refer to infrastructure projects of particular importance in the area of low construction. It is clear that there is a problem above all that can be heard in public, about who will build Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. If this is a way to resolve the conflict between the two potential ministers running through the media, then it is quite a logical solution for a third minister to be someone who is in some way in charge of building roads in Serbia. If that's how every party, from the big parties in the coalition, gets some jurisdiction in building roads, then it's bad. It's bad that every party has its own path to build. That means there's no teamwork to announce. That means we're going into a new campaign and every party is going to promote the one that's going to build. It is irrational from the point of view of overlapping competences because the same employees, the same ministry officials will do the same jobs, so we will have three times as many officials and employees in the ministries as it is necessary to do the same jobs in the state administration. If in this way the government's capacity is strengthened in the sense that some of the projects announced in the pre-election campaign are being implemented, then it should be possible for the government to try to realise these projects, such as the Danube – Aegean Sea Project, to dig up the channels, because this way significantly increases the capacity of the government and six ministers will be able to deal with this project. In this way, it realises these pre-election promises that I am sure will be found and an appropriate level of funds and that I am sure will fit the entire government and a new mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u294	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 14 MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party Group. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u295	Dear President, honourable Members of the People with this amendment, we want to reduce part of the work related to the system of local self-government and territorial autonomy for working relations, because we believe that these jobs should not be with this ministry but that it is more logical to belong to the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. If the future government is as important a state administration as the local self-government then such a job should be done by the ministry. By copying from the previous government the text of the Ministry Act, you have dropped one very significant fact here, which is that if you do not accept this amendment, this ministry will no longer oversee the election of local self-government authorities. So neither ministry will have control over the choice of local self-government authorities. I just want to say, let me give you two examples, in the municipality of Majdanpek and in the city of Zajecar, after the election, the elected mayor, the city council and deputy mayor by voting on the same ballot on all candidates by rounding the "yes" and "no" of the entire list. This, first of all, is the disabling of the terms of every councilor and the violation of the Law on Local Self-Government, so that you individually can vote for a member of the municipal council, that you do not have to vote for the package. When you were working on the draft ministry law, you did not take into account the choice for local self-government authorities and at this point, neither this ministry nor the Ministry of Justice has the authority to elect local self-government authorities. The authorities of the local self-government include the municipal administration where, I must tell you, for the illegal selection of the mayor of the municipal administration, you also have no one to turn to. In particular, in the municipality of Negotin twice, the Administrative Court annulled the municipal council's decision to dismiss the mayor of the municipal administration and to go the third time. I really ask you to bring matters related to the state administration and local self-government together in one place and accept this amendment that deletes these affairs and attaches them to the amendment to the 10th Ministry of Justice, Human and Minority Rights and Public Administration, so that local self-government can know what the ministry is doing. You have placed an administrative inspection with the Department of Justice, and the Administrative Inspectorate is also inspecting local self-government. How it'll be possible when she simply doesn't have the authority in Article 10 for something like that. I ask the representatives of the motion to consider this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u296	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Delevic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Delević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted this amendment to draw attention to the redistribution of the competences that I think it comes within the framework of the structures already established for the management of EU funds and on the basis of which we are trying to accredit ourselves with the European Commission for decentralised management of EU funds. This redistribution relates, in fact, to the redistribution of competences with the Ministry of Finance, which comprises sectors for the National Fund for the Management of EU Funds and the Sector for the Negotiation and Financing of EU Programmes and Funds and the Office for European Integration, Vice-President for European Integration as National Coordinator and Technical Secretariat of the National Coordinator. We are with this established structure, but to put it this way, near some end of the accreditation process, and if this solution were to be adopted, it would slow down accreditation, which I believe is the goal of the entire government being of particular importance for the Vice-President for European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u298	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u299	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that my amendment be adopted to Article 7. Proposal for a law, because in Article 7(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill mentions the co-operation of the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government with the authorities of the Autonomous Province and the bodies of municipalities, cities and city municipalities. In this place, I believe that the proposal for a law on ministries is anti-constitutional. We all know that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia we still, and I hope for a very long time, we will have more autonomous provinces. I don't just know if this is about giving up the AP Kim or whether it's about giving up the AP Vojvodina? That is why, in the spirit of the bill's proposal, I believe that here I need to make an effort, accept the amendment and give in the plural -- co-operation and organisations with the bodies of autonomous provinces. I would say one more thing here, as a member of the Legislative Committee in the previous term and now a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. In fact, as a member of the Working Group for the Making of Unique Methodological Rules, we have proposed on the Legislative Committee, and this was adopted, a member of the 42nd Single Methodological Rules for the Making of Regulations, where expressions in the regulation are said to be used in one unless nature requires things differently. Since this is about the first draft laws to come before this assembly of MPs, I can understand in some way what the bill is somewhat contrary to the unique methodological rules for the making of regulations, since the use of multitudes – municipalities, cities, urban municipalities, and should be said: "in the spirit of the unique methodological rules of coordination with the authorities of the city, the city municipality or the municipality itself". Then it would make sense for an autonomous province to be used in one way and another. I insist that in the voting day you accept my amendment and that we do not give up any autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u300	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new Article 8. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u301	Thank you. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has proposed, despite not paying attention to national minorities and human rights in Serbia, and we know what happened in the 1990s and that we are at some door of the EU and on this test to how much we will respect the rights of national communities and human rights, we have suggested that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights be formed as a special ministry, but might now support that these human and minority rights may be joined by another ministry, such as the Ministry of Justice, local self-government and state administration, and that it be in some way one ministry. The fact that human rights and the rights of the national communities are now undermined under the work of a service that will only run the national council register and the selection of national councils, I think it is too narrow, because under the new law on national councils, national councils have a very wide range of obligations that they carry out in the educational, cultural, official use of language and letter, so that one service that you are proposing will certainly not be able to carry out all that the Law on National Councils regulates.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u302	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted to the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u303	The Honored Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is an amendment that I have submitted to the proposal for a law on ministries relating to Article 8 defining the work of the Ministry of Transport. In fact, the character of this amendment is only to comply with the Air Traffic Act, and this law in Articles 232 and 234 defines the jurisdiction of the Civil Aviation Directorate for air traffic inspection tasks. According to the proposal for a law on ministries, the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport is defined for inspection surveillance in the area of air traffic. It is simply not possible for the Air Traffic Act, which defines who performs inspection tasks and the Ministry Act to be inconsistencies in this way. It remains unclear and remains with the Ministry of Traffic that, in parallel with the Civil Aviation Directorate, it is carrying out inspection tasks. I would like to remind you that the Air Traffic Act has just been on the law list as a condition for obtaining EU membership candidacy. It would be my turn for the Proposer to accept these changes, to respect the law we've passed. One such correction in a precise way defines the tasks of inspection surveillance in the area of air traffic. I suggest we bring in one of these formulas that defines it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u304	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u305	Mr. President, we have suggested that the Ministry of Transport joins with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and that jurisdiction be added to it in the area of spatial planning, with the authority of several ministries overlapping in such a composition as the promoter has given us. In addition to being integrated in an illogical way, for example, telecommunications and external and internal trade, unnecessarily separate powers that must be in one ministry. We all know very well that the infrastructure in Serbia is not at the highest level and is certainly one of the main preconditions for any economic development. If the government wants to develop the economy in the next four years, I'm sure it will have to develop the infrastructure first and foremost. There is no need for anyone to build factories and roads in Serbia, God forbid a hydroelectric power plant, to break the thresholds of ten ministries and ask for dozens of permits, and I think that by unifying, at least these four powers, these things would be greatly reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u306	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Dubravka Filipovski. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considered the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted to the title above Articles 10th and 10th. The Committee on the Justice of the State Administration and the Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 14 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, fellow MPs, we are not disappointed with the fact that the Ministry of Human Rights and Minority Rights has been abolished, we are already concerned by this fact. The ministry was one of the indicators in which this state refers to the rights of citizens and citizens, in which it refers to human and minority rights. On the basis of a decision to abolish this ministry, a man would have the impression that all the issues in that area were resolved and that we could now bring it down to the level of some service. We know from practice that this is certainly not the case. Saving on human and minority rights is actually a saving on democracy, because the issue of human rights and the position of minorities is today a key destination, based on which determines the degree of democracy of a single state, of a society. In this way, I repeat, the abolition of the ministry for the reason of saving is a saving on democracy, and I think it's an area in which it absolutely doesn't need to be saved, on the contrary, in which it takes a lot, to say, to invest because it's a language that this new government obviously understands best. I remind you that one group of civil society organisations means over 100 civil society organisations and all the advice of the national minorities of Serbia, 17 of them, signed a common letter to all political parties before negotiations on the government, where they call, if they enter the government, where they insist on forming the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. That letter obviously got a negative answer from this decision of yours. Please, i.e. I expect it would be wise, because Serbia will be perceived in terms of the degree of its democracy, to accept the LDP proposal, to change the guidance, i.e. Extend the information, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, as you call it today, because this proposal is a kind of compromise between what they are looking for, those who are directly dealing with human rights in practice, and us. I recall that the bill, which may cause further problems in communicating with organisations involved, states that the Ministry of Justice is, among other things, in charge of keeping the register of national councils and national minorities, the selection of national councils of national minorities, the preparation of rules on human and minority rights, but does not contain it in its own name. So the Justice Department is going to do these jobs, and it doesn't want to be official in this way that we think we should. So we expect this amendment to be accepted regardless of the Committee's rejection and we expect the issue of human rights to be one of the main topics that we will discuss not only with the representatives of the Government, but also within this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u308	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u309	By accepting this amendment, we would resolve the failure made on the issue of the choice of local self-government authorities, as this amendment clearly defines that transactions, which have been deleted by Article 7 of our proposal, are attached to the affairs of the Ministry of Justice, Human and Minority Rights and Public Administration. If you have provided for administrative inspection here, provided for the parent books, although it is a trusted job, provided for elections for republican authorities, then there is no reason why the ruling majority would not accept these two amendments and in a unique way show that it is completely identical to the state body and local self-government. If you do not accept the amendments, you are practically humiliating all citizens living in municipalities, preventing them from having anyone oversee the selection of local self-government authorities, because you have not given it in any ministry. I really expect the ruling majority to accept this amendment as meaningful. In Negotin, we addressed the administrative inspection to oversee the city of the municipal administration in Negotin, because the municipal administration is not operating in accordance with the law, more specifically the decision on the municipal administration, the systematization of jobs is not done, nor have the workers been given solutions according to this systematization. Since there is no administrative inspection with this Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, who will oversee the work? The ministry can't do that unless you accept this amendment, because this ministry has no local self-government jobs in its job description. I truly believe that all municipalities so far have been greatly humiliated by all previous governments. I'll find a concrete example. As of July 1st, all the regional roads, I will call them the old name to make the citizens understand me better, have fallen into the jurisdiction of the municipality. Any good host who returns regional roads should return them in proper condition, at least dressed or at least patched-up holes. You've returned regional roads to the municipalities, the previous government. In doing so, you have not increased budget and municipalities have no opportunity to renovate these roads, and many ministers from the previous government and many who will be ministers in the new government at least know what the route around Negotina, which is regional. Now the question is really raised – will local self-government and municipalities be important for this new government and new ministries, or will the new government forget absolutely that there are citizens living in municipalities? I once again ask the Proposer to adopt the amendment to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 10 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u310	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u311	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we have witnessed a debate between the DS and the SNS, which is the government, who is making the opposition, who has realized that the government, who has realized that it is the opposition. That crackdown made it easier for all of us, and maybe personally to realize that things have changed and that we are now, as DS, an opposition. I think it takes more time for the SNS to realize she's become power. It is not only about being in power to treat the opposition but also about the citizens and, of course, the international community. I am saying this in terms of this amendment, because I have now heard that the Committee on Justice has not accepted my proposal for an amendment, for the simple reason, because it is the very text of a law which is set out, contrary to both the EU directives and the Council of Europe conventions. Think of this as someone who speaks to you as a constructive opposition, someone who tells you well-intentioned, someone about has had a lot of complicated relationships and regular relationships with all the factors of the international community, and that's something that's coming to you. In particular, you're here at the Justice Department, and I'm glad you haven't changed the text much, or you've literally copied what we've put in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, but you've added one sentence that really doesn't belong to you, which, as a new government, will cause a big problem, which is that the Justice Department has received your bill's jurisdiction over the work of the Justice Academy. Everywhere in the world, according to the Council of Europe conventions, the Judicial Academy can be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the High Council and the State Council of Prosecutors. I strongly advise you not to have any further problems in your work, above all with the international community, to adopt the amendment. The amendment is very simple. It says – one single sentence is deleted in particular, I will say what the Judicial Academy means for the citizens of Serbia to know. In order to prevent any political influence on the future election of new legal holders, the institution was introduced in co-operation with the EU, that only one who completes this institution, further education, after the Law Faculty, could become a judge or prosecutor. Only judges and prosecutors question and make a rank list that is very clear by law, and it is such that no one can change the ranking list, but the best on the ranking list, automatically become judges and prosecutors. This is the essence of the future independence of the arrival of new holders of judicial functions in the position of performing one of the most important actions. By giving this amendment, or by proposing a law, where you return this jurisdiction to the Ministry of Justice, you directly involve the interference of the executive authority in the work of the judicial authorities. To be more specific, even the budget of the Judicial Academy has not yet been in the hands of the Justice Department, but of the High Council and the State Council of Prosecutors. I don't want to owe you any friendly advice, as someone who's really been dealing with these affairs and who wants to be a constructive opposition, I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u312	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. I have submitted this amendment in the light of the fact, as I said in my previous presentation, that the only KIM Ministry to be shut down in this government is not its workers, its archives, my obligations to anyone else or translated. For this reason, I asked that, until the office was formed, the workers of the KIM Ministry belong to the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, especially in view of the fact that the main job of the KIM Ministry had just been local self-government in the area of KIM. I have no reason not to believe it won't work out, but I can't figure out why this amendment isn't being accepted. In order not to create any new problems, so as not to ask the Secretariat or any other institution to take over those workers, I think this amendment would make the situation easier for the government itself. In no way do I want to abuse the concerns of people who have worked back 10 years, first, in the Federal Committee, at the Coordination Centre, at the Ministry of Kim, because they're very concerned about what their further destiny will be. It's not enough just to say that we'll work it out. Here, in this ministry law, you can't see that. Gentlemen, I expect and have no reason not to trust Mrs Tabakovic, I expect a paper that will clearly define the further fate of the KIM Ministry. I don't want any of us here playing with the fates of not only 84 lives, but 84 families that depend on their jobs. I therefore appeal to all MPs, and to opposition and positions, to vote in favour of this amendment, because this amendment gives the possibility that there is a continuity of the work of the Ministry of Kim until the office is formed. We all know how long it takes to form an office. It can't be done in a day or two, but it certainly takes seven or more days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u314	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u315	I'll be brief. I support Mr. Bogdanovic's amendment. I'm sorry that the ruling majority has already accepted, it seems to me, a very harmful manner of refusing all amendments to the opposition. That's not even what you call us. I would only ask you to warn the MPs not to earn it. What's the fact is, not only did it become a dangerous vacuum by abolishing the KIM Ministry, that not only created a dangerous vacuum in an institutional sense, but what we were talking about yesterday, and that I think it's very important that the citizens of Serbia know, and especially those living on KIM, that this is definitely a missed opportunity to create a clear legal framework, the formation of a ministry, that would allow all budget fees for KIM to be put in one place. And finally, by uniting all the giving offices they won't be able to, nor will they have the capacity, nor will they be able to do such a thing. Not only because we suspect that there will be enough both institutional and non-institutional space, but because legally it will not be made possible by the will of the ruling majority. I think it's perfectly normal to inform the public in advance that the government will continue through the budgets of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health to run its budgetary policy and its feud on KIM, which will leave room for the numerous abuses that will take place. If the weather's denying me, I'll be the first to admit it. Of course we have reason to doubt, and of course this solution leaves nothing but the conclusion that the office will, unfortunately, be able to deal only with the delivery of funds for the work of local self-government in one extreme and securely sensitive way, and another thing, that it will deal with supplying, say, wood for heating. I don't see any other format of what you haven't done yet, which will allow any improvement in this structure for our citizens on KIM. I repeat, this is the most constructive possible. I hope, I wish for time, and first of all, you, you're denying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u316	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment refers to Article 11, which is governed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, without trade. I am personally sorry that the current Minister of Agriculture, as of yesterday and the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Lawyer, did not mention his name because I cannot address the MP directly, is not there. He must have gone to water the tomatoes, since it's dry. At least that's what I think. He suddenly became an agricultural expert. My amendment refers to the part governed by the Ministry in the Department of Agricultural Land in State Property. It's not clear enough whether that administration stays. During the reign of those who are now the most rebelling, as if they had not ruled for nearly 12 years, the administration was the main criminal generator, pointed out by many peasants. Not to mention illegal competitions for the lease of agricultural land in state property. That could explain to us this mayor of theirs, who built that bridge to translate the thirsty across the water, as he called the competition opposite to Article 64b. The agricultural land law. Therefore, it is not clear enough whether this administration is abolished, given that, if abolished, it was brought into collapsing of the Agricultural Land Act, because it prescribes that such administration exists. So I submitted this amendment, of course, by wanting to point to other types of crime that occurred through this administration and which should be checked. I will remind you only of the case Zivkovic, former prime minister of those who make the most noise today. (President: Mr Risticevic, I will allow you to continue, but please, according to Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda, i.e. the amendment on which the search is being conducted, so please take care of it. ) Of course I take care of it and talk about the amendment to Article 11(2). The amendment applies to the Land Administration and it is not clear enough whether this agricultural land administration will continue to exist and I am talking about why it should exist. Because there was a major criminal generator that was conducted, where illegal bids, where the former prime minister, anti-Serbian Sanader, were granted the right to receive a 525 thousand-euro premium on the already planted vineyard, almost a year later. (President: Mr. Risticevic, please, let us not mention people who are neither MPs nor in this assembly, and to use words that may be offensive. I'm just asking you to compare your discussion on this. I haven't heard enough of you. What's offensive? (President: I would not repeat what you have said, but please, you know that this debate must go according to some norms. I'm just saying he got 525 000 euros in premiums because the Land Administration didn't do its job. It's the administration that can prove that their government wasn't affected and put together by tycoons, that tycoons were put together in their government. I also want to say that this administration has allowed their tycoons to change the land of the sixth category for first category land. If you don't want me to talk about it, of course I won't talk about it anymore. They overcharged their pockets and wallets. Now these bills are waving in front of the eyes of the poor people. Just to remind you, my dear too rich gentlemen, Tolstoy said, "The pleasures of you rich men are paid by the tears of the poor. ". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u318	The people's messenger, Alexander Jerkov, appeared in the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although they cannot agree with a single word of reasoning given by Mr Risticevic in support of his amendment, LSDV, our MP group will support this amendment, since we believe it is extremely important that the Agriculture Land Administration exists as an authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, as it has previously dealt with operations relating to the management of agricultural land in the state property, the establishment and management of an information system on agricultural land of the Republic of Serbia, the distribution of resources to carry out work and all important jobs related to agriculture. The Republic of Serbia, owned by state-owned land, has 424,558 hectares. Of which 301,606 hectares are located in Vojvodina. Of course, it is important to us how this land is available. We believe there must be a special authority within the Ministry of Agriculture, especially because the revenues from the leased agricultural land on state property are more than five billion dinars a year. As a result, it is extremely important that these funds, the way of issuing and renting agricultural land in the state property, are under control and are legally regulated. This amendment is something we would support and recommend to the ruling coalition to support it, especially because it comes from the ranks of one of the MPs belonging to the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u320	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u321	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not like to be involved in politics, but I would only like to talk about the subject of the agenda and only about the amendment relating to the Agriculture Land Administration. As we can see from the Proposal for a Law on the Ministry of Agriculture, it is proposed only that there is a Veterinary Administration, Plant Protection Administration, the Republic Water Directorate and the Forest Administration. It is not clear why you did not propose a special administration for agricultural land, precisely because of its exceptional importance. Honestly, everyone was probably expecting this amendment to be accepted, as we can see, he was rejected. The SVM, precisely because we believe that agriculture is an extremely important branch of the economy, one of the most important, and 80% of the population in Vojvodina is engaged in agriculture, there is the largest farmland, will support this amendment and we hope that other parliamentary groups will support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u322	The speaker's representative, Dr. Jorvanka Tabaković, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u323	As soon as possible. Those who supported or did it in some way for the sake of the public must say that this provision is literally prescribed by a law still in force, where it says that the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management is also carrying out the tasks of the state administration relating to the management of agricultural land and all competences. Now I don't understand, you speak as if the administration has been abolished or will not be evaluated, based on the real state and possibility, the need for this administration to be established, which is not the subject of this law. The government can do so on its own later in its own action. If something worked this way so far, it wasn't a problem, because jobs exist. In which way they will be organised, it does not have to be solved now. As you were told in the opening statement, we absolutely saw that we were not expanding our activities, not to narrow them down, but to make the current structure of the ministries at this point more efficient, because we do not really have the precise balance sheets, the means and obligations that they have towards farmers and the procedures that are under way. I pray for patience and unbelief, I pray for patience and those who hope, for this law neither ends the world nor begins. Life and the state administration are a river that flows and we're going to do everything that's best, and we're here to change it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u324	Thank you. Replica, Messenger of the People Alexander Jerkov Use the time of the parliamentary group or the head of the parliamentary group. [[Alexandra Jerkov: It's not a replica, but I'm still talking about the amendment.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u325	Yeah. In several other ministries, we see that the law defines both administrations and inspectorates and directorates and various other bodies. This amendment, as I see it, is now proposing to bring into the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as was the case before, and that is why we support it. Animosity or some infidelity stems from the fact that it is one of the most important resources our country has. It is not necessary to say how significant it is for the AP Vojvodina, and unfortunately, a very bad experience in all the governments so far, whoever did it, assures us that what, when it comes to the AP Vojvodina, is not immediately resolved, will never be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u326	Thank you. Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u327	Not a single new administration, the new body is not this law on ministries established, not a single new one, and whether this agricultural land management administration will be set up by special laws, such as these, is the next step, leave it to the government to assess.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u328	Thank you. MP Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u329	I thank you for your response, and it is really up to us to see how the government will further formulate. This is a special topic, but I also talked about it in the debate in principle, that it is unclear why certain ministries left a provision for certain administrations, directorates, etc. There's a shortage left, the most I've based on the lack of the Human and Minority Rights Administration, but this is a similar situation and it's positive if it's going to happen in the future, only maybe it could have already been done. If there is an amendment whose content is indeed identical, it is unclear why it is not acceptable, but it is a problem with some things, reading only this law without explanation, it was not clear why certain issues of importance for the AP Kosovo and Metohija, for human and minority rights, for religious communities etc. They only handle the services, because this proposal contains the services. We thought, that's what I was talking about, I don't want to repeat myself, that there will be less importance to these issues, or those bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u330	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 12 and 12. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Stojsic answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, we believe that science and education should be separated from the technological development that we have attached to telecommunications through this amendment. Whoever follows the general development of telecommunications knows that this is one of the top priorities and falls within the realm of technological development. Also, we found that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is dealing with something called technology entrepreneurship. I've been trying for days to find out what tech entrepreneurship means, so I'd just like someone to explain to me exactly what the Ministry is doing. Does that mean it's someone who likes techno music so he's an entrepreneur or something? I really don't know what tech entrepreneurship is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u332	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u333	Thank you, Mr. President. As we discussed in principle, we again have a situation that several ministries deal with the same or very related resources. We see no reason for the existence of the Ministry of Energy, on the one hand, and natural resources and mining, on the other hand, as a completely different ministry. The problem we talked about again arises, that both ministries are dealing with both nuclear power plants and plants and the disposal of nuclear waste. Serbia currently has neither such technology nor its intention to build such facilities. If she has such an intention in the future, it is unclear which of these two ministries will deal with it, given that they have identical competencies in the area. Environmental protection, on the one hand, from one ministry and spatial planning from another ministry, according to our proposal, should be in completely different ministries. Of course, the question I also asked in the principle debate, the totally magical mention of the word "development" in the name of this ministry, which was proposed to Article 14. The ministry is called the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. What kind of development we haven't received to this day. If it's all about general development, then it's completely unclear why he's within one ministry. If it's any other development, I think it would be worth explaining in the very text of the law, what kind of development this is really about. The future minister, of course, is very qualified for this job. In addition, during our criticism of the gas arrangement, which Serbia concluded with Russia, its expert views and opinions were the main sources of LSDV information in the media and elsewhere, since it was one of the main critics of the gas arrangement with Russia. Therefore, I think that, instead of developing and protecting the environment, the entire ministry could attach both natural resources and mining and thus create one logical continent, given that the ministry could be dealing with this and it would be logical to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u334	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u335	I'm sorry, Chairman, my amendment is probably next, but I called too soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u336	I understand. Yes, your amendment is next. The title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u337	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, if I were to suggest today that the Ministry of Police, Human Rights and Civil Liberties should be made, you'd probably think a lot of things about me. However, green people are not proposing this to you today, but we are amazed by your proposal for the Ministry of Energy and the environment. This is not the political policy that most of you are dealing with, this is about environmental policy that doesn't exist in this ministry law. The minister in charge of energy cannot be responsible for environmental affairs at the same time, and above all for environmental protection jobs. One person to whom the largest pollutants belong is at the same time in charge of their control. All right, we know that today's most polluted and most popular areas around Obrenovac are in the vicinity of Lazarets, in the vicinity of Pogorets and Kostolac. This represents a classic conflict of jurisdiction. I can't keep holding the same institutions knife and cake all the time. It has to be separated. Environmental resources and planning must be taken into account by environmentalists on sustainable development. They must monitor, quantify and qualify natural and creative values and propose valid ecological, political, but primarily professional decisions in the field of rational use of resources and their protection. It is a mistake for environmental policy to interfere with economic policy unless environmental rights are legally established. Keep in mind that we need to legislate and that we need to legislate as a serious country in the world and as a true EU candidate. In the process of harmonisation, 38% of environmental obligations await us. For green, entering the EU is imperative, not only because of ecology, but mainly because of the state of human rights and freedom, and above all because of the economy. One more thing, in this law very, very disputable, and I can say for the green, it's also shocking, and that's the nuclear energy that you're proposing here. You said - nuclear power plants whose purpose is to produce electricity, i.e. heat energy, production, use and disposal of radio active materials in teams. For your information, there is a law prohibiting the construction of nuclear power plants. For your information, this moratorium expires in 2015. For your information, the Constitutional Court in 2011 did not accept an initiative to initiate proceedings to determine the unconstitutional nature of this law. Note, too, that more than 80% of Serbian citizens are against nuclear power plants and nuclear power in Serbia. As part of the Ministry Act, you have proposed the Energy Act here, we think this ministry should be called the Ministry of Energy and Mining, given that both areas are consumer areas in the area of the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u338	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 16 and 16. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. The People's MP Ivan Karic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u339	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we are constantly offered parallels on the present poverty that disturbs ecological development. On the contrary, without environmental and resource policies ahead and above all, there is no development strategy, but there is no economic recovery of Serbia either. Without a list of all values, natural resources, analysis of the situation and how to manage it, there is no new planning or sustainable development. We here propose that the ministry bear the name of the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning. The resources are again in a joint bag where all users of industry, mining and energy, forestry, water industry and they don't want to count what and how much is in that rescue bag. This has been going on for decades, and you want to continue this bad practice and a disastrous tradition with this law. Fortunately, everything still survives because the true and host Serbia, which is quiet Serbia, continues to produce hard work. You are carried on by your economic programs to forget that air, water, river, forest, mineral raw materials have a very high price. For the air, we realize it usually when it's too late, when we see it and when we see that the air has color. Of course, when we talk about resources and human health pollution, it has invaluable value. Green Serbia is opposed to being in the Ministry of Natural Resources because an entity that manages natural and economic activities that are users of natural resources cannot be and cannot determine the rules of their use. This is also true in the regulation of relations in the department's competences and provides for an ecological balance management. These amendments, which the Greens have proposed, are not an integral or comprehensive concept that Green Serbia advocates as a political concept, but in this way, as Greens, we have tried to contribute to this anti-environmental law on ministries at least a little bit. If your proposal for the ministries is that Greene is moving very far away from potential government support. I'm really surprised by the draft law on ministries, first of all, thinking about your coalition partners who have a very good ecological doctrine, and I'm sorry that I don't see that there's a single line here that the SPS stands for. I hope when we talk about resources, we are very closely monitoring the situation of genetically modified organisms because it is very suspicious for us that you are announcing use, and we note that with you again, coalition partners are people who have introduced genetically modified organisms into Serbia's environment. I hope that since you are in favour of processing, you will also process your new coalition partners and that you know that there is a bill on the ban on genetically modified organisms with 36,000 signatures of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u340	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to Article 17 of the amendment, submitted by MP Ranka Savic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u341	Unfortunately, this amendment was not accepted either, or perhaps with excessive optimism, I thought that at least those amendments concerning workers and those relating to employees would be accepted. In fact, because of a series of misunderstandings and disputes that were in the previous period between, above all, the union and the Ministry of Labour, or the Secretary-General, I absolutely felt that it was necessary for the ministry's affairs to be specified and to be complemented by a set of tasks related to certain spheres of action. It was particularly important to prevent the discrimination of the union that you have to trust me with a word in the previous period, but also to regulate the system of representativeness. The basic objective of my amendment's investment was exactly this. However, the established jobs and responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour, which was particularly amazing to me, is the fact that social dialogue and the Social - Economic Council are not mentioned in a single word. I guess because Serbia is not a highly conflicting state, which is not the situation it is in Serbia, then we did not need social dialogue on such good occasions. How important social dialogue and the Social - Economic Council are, I will inform only those who do not know, that in the EU in 1957, a European, Economic and Social Committee was formed in the EU and that it is working today, that it is 344 members and that it cannot be imagined that one law relating to the work and social sphere, or the protection of the environment, is passed without prior approval of this committee. What is more important and significant, opinions that are not binding in the EU or in the EU of this committee are observed in 95% of the cases. I don't think I should be saying how important social dialogue is that he is the basis for a non-conflict settlement of disputes from the Republic through local self-government to the company. I hope that, regardless of the refusal of this amendment, the new government will work differently, that it will take seriously the need to expand and strengthen social dialogue, and that the Social - Economic Council, as so far, will not be a frontline of European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u342	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u343	I asked for a word about the amendment just before Ranka Savic exhibited it. The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, the PUPS Group considers that the amendment should not be accepted for the reasons set out in Article 17(1). The draft law stipulates that, among other things, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy shall carry out the tasks of the state administration relating to the system in the field of labour relations, as well as trade union organisation, which shall include the proposals contained in that amendment and in the explanation. This is because the system in the field of labour relations includes, among other things, the individual and collective rights of employees, and the collective right includes the system of legal protection of trade unions, the prevention of trade union discrimination and other proposals relating to the functioning and protection of trade unions and their members. The proposed amendment, the system of legal protection of trade unions, the prevention of discrimination, the system of representativeness and others, is already contained in the applicable Labour Act, which regulates the system in the field of labour relations. This proposed detailed regulation of the ministry's jurisdiction in relation to trade unions is too high in the Ministry Act, and would require other powers of the ministry to be defined in the same way, which would unnecessarily burden the text of the Ministry Act, which only determines the part-time work, not the content of the regulation of certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u344	Does anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 16 after we have broken the order submitted by MP Oliver Dulic? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted an amendment adding a new title and a new member of 19a. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Slobodan Samardzic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 19a. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u345	Since we proposed adding item 18 in Article 2, we were obliged to add this amendment to Article 19. In the context of this amendment, it is clear how much it can and should be part of and the scope of the affairs it conducts or which would be carried out by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, if our amendment to Article 2 and the amendment to Article 19 is adopted. This shows what the intensity of the amendment is, and basically it is nothing more than what was the work of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija from 2007 to 2012. We're not gonna talk about how the Ministry did that job again. It's not a topic for today. It is important for us to draw attention to the lack of this law and show how it should be if things were to take place. It is essential that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija perform the tasks of the state administration relating to the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, of the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. That's what's important. What we keep saying, that we have institutions there and that they should function in some administrative regime that exists for the rest of the Republic, is actually the essence of things. We should not only act in principle and formally as if Kosovo is part of Serbia, which is what we must also show through the state administration. If the state administration doesn't work in some space, then it doesn't exist. There may be a delusion that our state administration should not operate in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, because Resolution 1244 says there are two UN missions based on Resolution 1244, so military and civilian, and that a civilian mission will take over the functioning of that administration. That's how it is on paper, but you know that since 1999, practically, this civilian mission has slowly left first to Albanian institutions and then to self-government institutions, as defined by the Resolution, which has taken over entirely Albanian forces. So he leaves them to manage the entire area of Kosovo and Metohija. The entire government policy since 2001, the first Djindjic government, and until this last one, was that Serbia was, in fact, to the maximum extent possible, respecting Resolution 1244, performing certain management tasks in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That is the meaning of that November 2001 agreement, Covic-Ekerup. It is an agreement signed between our country and UNMIK, so the UN civilian mission in Kosovo and Metohija and it is still valid. You have one situation in 2008, when Albanians declared independence and, by some logic, it is the thing of Ahtisaari's plan and their constitution, that they should take over management. There was a vacuum of governance that we could either fill or fail to meet. We cannot leave it to the Albanian institutions of the quasi state to take over management of all Kosovo and Metohija. That would be stupid. In fact, we wouldn't violate Resolution 1244 if we were in that steering vacuum running the administration where we can. Our intensity is according to previous law and according to previous ministries to wherever every Serbian citizen who is loyal to Serbia lives has, so to speak, the protection of Serbia's ruling hand. That is the essential meaning of this amendment. He predicts that these functions are carried out in the fields of education, health, social policy, culture, infrastructure, telecommunications, etc., participation in the conduct of the electoral process, which our election law allows, these are elections for local authorities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, then the operation of the Orthodox Church, the restoration of spiritual and cultural heritage, financial, legal, technical, human resources and many other things, such as co-operation with UN missions in Kosovo, so to civil, UNMIK and military form. The ministry's task is also to prepare, organise and conduct negotiations on a political solution, according to Resolution 1244, which should result in Kosovo's future status. As you know, this thing isn't over, it's not over. Meanwhile, another process came in, another phenomenon that had nothing to do with the negotiations, even Resolution 1244. It's this dialogue that was on the verge of violating our laws and our constitution. I say on the sidelines, and by the consequences he is not on the margin either, but he has crossed over from the other side of the legality and constitutionality, since some of the seven points he has regulated in a way that fully corresponds to the institutions of the false state of Kosovo. So we have to go through the Ministry and do these jobs. As you can see, according to them, these are the jobs only the ministry can do. It has shown time since when the ministry exists and jobs that cannot perform any lower level of government, office, center, service or anything else. The best example for this is this case of organising elections for local authorities this May 2012. It's just that the state acted as if it had no jurisdiction over the matter. She called the elections, and refused to do them under the pretext that the security problem would create a gift-mar in Kosovo, etc. The two municipalities that made the elections, acting under the law, have proved that everything can be done in one orderly administrative mechanism and process. These elections are over, the committees have been made, no hair has fallen off their heads, everything has been completely regular, which actually shows that the management mechanism has taken over the local community in Kosovo, acted by law in Serbia and has done it in the most orderly way possible. A better example is the 11 May 2008 elections, when we had elections in 24 municipalities in Kosovo. We did it under our law, not in violation of Resolution 1244, nor of UNMIK's jurisdiction. UNMIK released nicely in 2007 those powers of organising elections in Kosovo, transferred them to temporary institutions, they became the institutions of the state of Kosovo and we were to surrender. What was the mission of the state rather than extend its hand to the electoral process, only because UNMIK gave it up with two regulations. Legally, it's perfectly fine and normal. Elections were held in 24 municipalities, a special representative of the secretary-general resented, yelled, but when the matter was over, he "began to lie down" and began to co-operate with those municipalities. So, this is proof that the state has a maneuvering space to operate in KIM if it wishes, if it has the will, not to violate Resolution 1244, nor its Constitution, nor its laws, in fact by implementing them, but by ignoring, of course, the laws of the false state of Kosovo because they are illegal and non-existent to us. In short, this is a proposal that I think is both legitimate and constructive and politically rational, from today's point of view. We do not say that now the state should manage all of Kosovo, because it is real and impossible, but where it can – it can. The maximum goal is that wherever Serbs and citizens live, otherwise loyal to the state of Serbia, they do not have to be Serbs, our citizens, as far as possible, given all realities in space, where people live on their own, in small enclaves that cannot be defended today, etc., etc. Not for Serbs in Kosovo, not for our citizens, and most of all for the international community, it is no better than for the state to show maximum of its will and maximum of its practice and application of its own laws. That is why this amendment is rational, above all, in accordance with the law and we ask that, in accordance with Amendment 2, the parliamentary majority look closely at it and think about it, taking into account the arguments made in this debate. Because these discussions aren't irrelevant and that's why we're having a debate, besides writing amendments, they're a contribution to explaining and explaining what we want and we think it would be really very useful, and for the fate of the kiM of God and of an unusually large, if not decisive, importance for Serbia to keep KIM in its composition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u346	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 14 MPs of the LDP group submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u347	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to make it as simple as possible to explain why I suggested that another ministry, proposed by law, be introduced into the role of overseeing the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute. I think we'll agree on the importance of the Republic Geodetic Service for the functioning of the state administration. The Republic Geodetic Office, as referred to in Article 28. The bill envisions, among other things, doing business professionally, as well as dealings with the state administration. These professional jobs are, for example, geomagneticism, aerodynamics, magnetic and electromagnetic fields, etc., and these other affairs, as regards state administration, are mainly about enrolment of property rights. Thus, they are primarily related to work related to the service of the catastra of immovableity. It is the cataster of immovableity that has somehow become a major problem in the everyday life of an average citizen of Serbia. I would remind myself that it's been a 10-year process of uniting the land book and the catastra, which is actually causing huge problems, since every citizen who decides to buy or sell a property, to mortgage it for taking a certain loan, or inheriting a property, has a problem when they address the competent service in some local self-government to enroll some of their rights in the building block. I think part of the problem has arisen because the ministry responsible for overseeing this Republic Geodesy Institute is simply not competent to carry out that surveillance. I would understand if the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism were to oversee the work of this Republic Geodesy Institute, which concerns geomagneticism, aerodynamics and the like, but in no way can they understand in what sense a ministry of type of construction and urbanism can control the work of this equities catastra, since these services are often directors of geodesy engineers and the like, who do not have the necessary expertise in terms of rights, so that this causes many controversial decisions whenever a citizen consults the competent service. I really expected you to think about it a little bit, as a first step, in terms of rationalising and doing more functional work of the state administration, so that a small acceptance of this kind of correction, where, apart from the existing ministry, the intervention is accepted, that is, the supervision of the Ministry of Justice for the control and assistance of the Republic Geodetic Institute in its serious work that this institution has in terms of daily needs and state and society. Unfortunately, there is obviously no will in this regard, whether because the opposition submitted this amendment, or because it simply did not pay attention to the purpose of this amendment, or the amendments proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u348	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mr. Bojan Djuric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u349	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, supporting everything that counterpart Popovic said about, for LDP, this is a very important issue. This is not just a question of the organisation of a system of state administration or of business between certain cabinets in the government, or future ministries. The issue of editing land books, i.e. catastra and property rights, is one of the key issues in Serbia's modernisation and Europeanisation process. We also talked a lot about this in the mandate of the previous government, especially when Mr Dulic, as a resolute minister, came before this Parliament with his laws or amendments to the laws concerning the legalisation process, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the functioning of the construction industry under the conditions of the crisis. The issue of regulation, how to lead, the possibility of citizens relying on what is contained in the documents for which the Republic Geodetic Institute is responsible under this law, is one of the key issues of investment policy or development policy, and hence economic policy and economic development policy in this country in the future. I don't believe that this problem can be overcome, say, by opening an office for quick answers, which is obviously going to be one of the new government's proposals. Simply, this problem must be solved in a systematic way. In the past term, we had several very interesting conversations with Mr Dulic, so that it would eventually turn out that in concrete situations the possibility of a citizen to come to a solution to his problem depends on the goodwill, ability, willingness of local officials, or local officials, who are formally in the jurisdiction of the Republic Authority, or the Republic Geodesy Institute. This makes the situation much more difficult when it comes to the regulation of the public books system, as well as when it comes to resolving the legalisation problem. Until now, very often, the republican government has taken this demagogue or populist route, trying to form or propose solutions that will look attractive and receptive to citizens at first sight, and then, after several weeks or several months, and in this case, from the Republic of Geodetic Office, it has been shown that the citizen is actually coming into an even more complicated and even more difficult situation. Why did I say this question and the question of Serbia's modernisation measures? We've practically had this problem for almost 70 years. A system of land books in Serbia works in many ways or represents a picture of the found state sometime before World War II. Those parts of our country in which, for example, the Austrian civil code and some other legal systems today have a much more orderly system, property records and rights based rights than some other parts of Serbia. Perhaps in this debate that is still political today, that question cannot get its own space it deserves. I think the solution to this problem will be one of the key measures of the new government's success in the coming period. I regret that he is no longer devoted to this amendment and that he is not accepted. Once again, this is primarily about the record, the use of property rights, the functioning of the legal order, and therefore it is logical that the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has special powers in this regard. These aren't, or are not, first of all, engineering and technical stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u350	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was submitted by a group of 14 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u351	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as did Article 28th and this Article 29, could contribute significantly to Serbia's modernisation, as often the functioning of certain state bodies depends on who oversees the state authorities. That is why I see no justification in the fact that this Article 29 is proposed by the Ministry of Finance and Industry to oversee the work of the Republic's Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that this is a directive that, for 16 years, the management of the property of the Republic of Serbia has failed to even record the total property of the state of Serbia. She made it, like, five percent of that property. So that directorate couldn't properly manage state property. She obviously didn't even bother, because for all these years she hasn't taken charge of all the property. Thus, in these 16 years, there could have been a lot of abuses, a lot of controversial decisions in terms of and management of this state property, without anyone asking whether the Republic Property Directorate was sufficiently safe and responsible, and no one actually called for the responsibility of the people who worked and who are still working in the Republic Directorate. Normally, in this general confusion over this republican directorate, the fact that the Ministry of Finance was overseeing her work has contributed. This continues, so that this erroneous practice cannot certainly give some better results than these results that this directorate has shown so far. For this reason, I have proposed that the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration take charge and of this directive because it is simply more natural, that lawyers, highly educated, take care of the work of a directorate which primarily refers to property rights, of the vast assets given to them for management. I think you could really try to show good will and show the capacity to which you are capable of some reforms and to what extent you are willing to end this continuity with the previous authorities that you specifically look at, criticising them as very negative results of work so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u352	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u353	I'll just take a minute. This amendment is actually the legal and technical consequence of our amendments to Articles 2 and 19, so there's almost nothing to say about it, except maybe one little comment. There are five ministries in this article that actually stop working. When you look more or less, the jobs of all these ministries will be transferred to other ministerial compositions that are being proposed as new ones. When it comes to kim, it's not there. That's why the entire ministry needs to be returned. Maybe someone can say that they don't have it because every ministry will work for the whole state of work, even for KIM. That answer would not be convincing for the simple reason that there is indeed a legal and factual, special state or special situation there. That is why it is necessary to present it as a special problem. We suggested it as a ministry. If jobs are already being transferred to other ministries, purely from the inherent logic of these proposals, these should be the jobs in which the Ministries from the previous KIM ministry should be transferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u354	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Algica Batic, Aleksandar Jugovic and Aleksandar Jotric together submitted to the 36th amendment. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Predrag Markovic submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u355	I'll just take a moment, since this matter has been adopted by another amendment. In order to avoid confusion, the amendment refers to, I hope, an oversight that, in the context of the takeover of the future Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, where the affairs of the state administration relating to postal traffic are transferred, this is not indicated, which could cause consequences. Now, it's fixed, but since we're all experienced people, so we know that there's neglect, there are mistakes, there's a policy, but sometimes there are Freudian problems, so it's necessary to remind ourselves -- the postal system is one of the most important systems and the most orderly systems in our country in the last few years, 15,200 people who work in this system are not fired, but through changes in the restoration of postal buildings, postal units, the renewal of systems and types of jobs, the introduction of new technologies have been educated, and they all learned to do different jobs, and, let's say, very importantly, one special relationship with citizens, those citizens who have been at risk of transition, so they can't choose, they can't use some new technologies, but they can keep, let's say pensioners and the way they're used to receive pensions, and so in a whole series of jobs. In doing so, during the reconstruction of buildings, it was made clear that a large part of this building, the most normal and cultural monuments, and I thank all those who helped, and I suppose an uncanny statement concerning the mail building was also made on the basis of the beautiful fact that what was foreseen in 1971, as necessary, the main post office centre, was not done from 1971 to today, until one year ago, but in the last year, it was completed from the funds of the public company PTT traffic, so probably someone thought it would free the building that was owned by mail, and it would only be partially free of some cabinets. I remind you once again, it is very important and I draw attention to Mr Ljajic, which is why I am talking about the amendment, it is very important that one such important system, which was confirmed by the Congress of the European Federation of Mail which was held a few months ago, and which will be confirmed, will be the results confirmed, as well as the role of our mail, already in Doha in September to do all of this in time, in order to preserve a system which, like all other systems within the current Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, has not lost any jobs in the past year and everything that has been done by citizens remains for the citizens of Serbia. If someone's going to get confused in the vote, I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you, everyone. That's what I wanted to tell you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u356	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Group has submitted an amendment to Article 37, which provides for the erasure of those provisions relating to the performance of matters of importance for the AP KiM, which would be carried out under the special service, as defined by the law here. As you know, our position, our party's position expressed through the amendments submitted by the president of our parliamentary group, is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia retains the continuity of the two previous governments that had in its composition the KIM Ministry. The decision to shut down the KIM Ministry and to form a special service will create a number of problems, besides, in our opinion, being politically bad. About why it is politically bad and what kind of message is on the outside and on the inside, Mr. Slobodan Samardzic already said. I'll talk about the problems that concern the fact that we no longer have the Ministry, and the powers and tasks and powers that exist should be provided by a special service. Let me remind you, this is where the office is supposed to be. It's a body that doesn't have administrative authority, it's not a management body, it's not an authority that can bring administrative acts, it's not an authority that can supervise, it's an auxiliary government body. The authority cannot carry out these tasks that were envisaged, as it was said in public, to be identical to those that were within the ministry, which would be conducted by the service. It's just that when you know the system of state administration, it's not possible. The question arises – how will these jobs be organised when the service does not have the authority to do these jobs? We heard in the announcements that a large number of these jobs will be done by all other ministries. Reading the proposal for a law on ministries, we do not see in any ministry the issues that are very precise in the amendment tabled by Mr Samardzic, that these other ministries will be working on matters concerning co-operation with the civilian military mission of Umnik, proposing to the government of the state negotiating team, as regards the operation of the SPC. We don't see what departments would do, because it's not listed here, and that's a big problem. The third thing, if it comes from the assumption that it could have been done by the ministries, although I point out that these competencies are not listed here, someone within the government would have to coordinate. Someone here mentioned it would be an office that will have the same status as the EU Association Office now. You had a Deputy Prime Minister, formally speaking, in the government's structure a strong personality, coordinating these affairs. We now don't see, in an announcement, that it will be any kind of person in the government, a minister or vice president, who would do these jobs. It is difficult to imagine, and it is not recorded, when the parallel and legal functioning of the government are observed, that one auxiliary body of the government, such as the service, co-ordinates the affairs of the ministries to which it should serve. Huge problems will arise in operation, unless they are desired, and we will see the presentations of the prime minister, that these jobs are not done at all. This administrative authority is someone's got to do it. We will see how and how this will be presented in the presentation of the mandate. So this is a very important question. This is where the polemics opened up what would happen to the employees. It's also important, but it can't be measured by the importance of the fact that some jobs, important jobs for the KIM area, at this point we can freely say the most important state issue, for this reason a ministry is established, someone has to do it. The situation hasn't improved since the moment the KIM Ministry was formed, so we can say it can be done at lower organisational levels in the state administration system, but rather as a ministry. Surely the situation is not better in the area of our southern province after 2008, but it is more complex, more complicated and requires much greater efforts by the state apparatus and government to do these jobs. That's why it was important, not only for the ministry to be held, but for it to be strengthened. This will also create confusion in jobs, who will do these jobs, and in coordination between these ministries and the above all issue – how policies will be implemented in certain areas. How will the policy in the areas of health, education, local elections be brought into line? This way, as it was just an announcement, we don't see it. In this regard, our proposal is to accept amendments relating to establishment within the Government of the Ministry of KiM, to accept this amendment, which deletes that the tasks that are of importance to the KIM are performing a special service and to return to one course that was in the previous period, according to the importance that KIM has at this time for the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u358	Thank you. The People's MP Milos Aligrudic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. The discussion of this amendment reminds me of what we heard in the debate in principle when it comes to the Ministry of Kim. At that time, the esteemed head of the SNS parliamentary group said that if we do not have the Ministry of Piroth or the Ministry of Vojvodina, there is no need for us to have a ministry for KIM, because we respect the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless. When we look at this provision of the law, then we see that there is a whole set of jobs that are entrusted to a special service, and this set of jobs is also something special, it stands out as something special, so the same argument can say that we don't have a service for Piroth or a service for Vojvodina. So the degree of importance of this issue is exceptional. However, apart from wanting to stress this importance, first of all because of the stenograms and the public, at this point we are aware of the fact that the ruling coalition, since today's election of the government has been since 15.00 hours, practically neither has time nor will it have the strength to adopt something like this. It remains to regret the team and that eventually, during the work of the government, there is a possible change or a different decision and that the KIM Ministry is finally formed. So far things will be the way they are. We're very sorry about that, but it's just a fact right now. Another small hope, which is that at least 50% of what Aleksandar Vukic said, when it comes to the government's involvement in the preservation of territorial integrity, will be true.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u360	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr. Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u361	I'll just have two sentences at the end. Although we will have to declare ourselves by voting on all amendments, I would only inform everyone that, as it is on the Committee and done, we have accepted the amendments: to Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, Article 12. Miletic Mihajlovic, member of the 15th National MP Predrag Markovic, submitted an amendment to Article 36. Meha Omerovic, but to the truth of the will, almost identical content and colleagues Markovic and Mr Djelic and Mr Sutanovac's amendment to article 6 with the correction, which is in fact about harmonising with the laws that have been passed on to emergency situations, the correct term of "security agencies, military-security and military-intelligence agencies", but in the day of voting on them, however, we will have to make a statement. I just want to thank everyone for a constructive debate and make this just the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u362	Thank you. The People's MP Oliver Dulic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u363	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the back of this, this fact that the ruling majority realizes that there are amendments and opposition that are in favour of achieving better functionality of future ministries, I would just like to invite you to pay attention to the amendment in Article 8 which was also meant to resolve one harmonisation, i.e. the harmonisation with the law that was in the meantime passed. You have provided that the Ministry of Transport, in addition to all its responsibilities, issues applicable permits for traffic facilities and infrastructure. This is the exclusive jurisdiction of the construction ministry, in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction. First of all, the Ministry of Transport does not have human resources, there is not enough knowledge and expertise to issue such an administrative act. On the other hand, the Law on Planning and Construction provided that the ministry responsible for the construction issue of such administrative acts. So, I would only ask you to pay attention, since you've already established on the Committee by refusing this amendment, I urge you to make a statement on it in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u364	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Aleksandar Jugovic and Aleksandar Jotric. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalić and Radojko Obradović, MP Srdjan Miković, MP Gordana Komic, MP Slobodan Homen and a group of 14 MPs, together submitted to the 38th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Srdjan Mikovic picked up the first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u365	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. The bill of law, by asking for the proposed article 38 to be deleted. I believe that by adopting the proposed Article 38. The draft law introduces the practice of passing laws on a case-by-case basis. I do not believe it is in principle that within 45 days of the entry into force of the law, the possibility of proposing a discharge of a civil servant in a position is introduced, in the event that a state official, according to the position of the minister, has not achieved certain results in his work, while at the same time setting out clear criteria for assessing the work of a civil servant in a position. I point out that there is a current Civil Service Act at the moment. The law was passed in 2005 and the organisation for European security and co-operation was also involved in the process of passing the law, meaning the OSCE Organisation. Many others participated, and this was the time when a good legal solution was reached. I believe that, when we take a good look at the uniform methodological rules for the making of regulations, especially a member of 59 unique methodological rules, where it is said that in the context of the reasoning for the law itself, it should stand out whether or not it is possible to achieve the goal without the adoption of the law, whether the objective, as set out in the proposed Article 38, is possible, is also possible to achieve it without the adoption of that article. It's possible. It is possible precisely if we look at the current Civil Service Act ourselves, because unlike the Bill's proposal in the Law on Civil Servants, the applicable law, it is clearly stated that the evaluation values the assessment criteria, and this results are achieved in the performance of jobs and objectives set, independence, creativity, entrepreneurship, precision and security, co-operation with other civil servants and other skills required by the workplace. It is precisely when acting in accordance with the Law on civil servants that there is an obligation for those who carry out the evaluation, and I repeat, that there are different types of evaluations - regular evaluations, which are carried out quarterlyly, and there is the possibility of extraordinary evaluations. It already exists in the current Civil Service Act. Is there now a need to introduce an extraordinary evaluation in relation to the extraordinary evaluation that exists in the Civil Service Act, but, again, without the obligation to clearly state what are the criteria, what are the reasons? The draft law states in Article 38 that the results have not been achieved, it is sufficient that if Article 38 is adopted, the Government decides to say – it is resolved because the results have not been achieved. I don't think it can do that. I believe that in the way provided for in the Civil Service Act, anyone doing a public job should be evaluated. I believe that by adopting the proposed member, 38, the contributions to the creation of legal uncertainty. I think we're going back practically seven years. I'm afraid that the OSCE and all those who monitor our way to Europe, and I think that the vast majority of the hall want us to speed up our path to Europe, we cannot speed up our path to Europe by giving up European values by trying to professionalise civil servants in a position. That's why I suggest that in voting day... Please remain silent, so as not to distract me during exposure. I suggest that in the voting day you accept my amendment and accept the amendment of many of my colleagues who have proposed to the same text to be Article 38. The bill is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u366	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The People's MP Milos Aligrudic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u367	Yeah, we asked for this article to be deleted on the 38th. But unlike my colleagues, I'm going to give a slightly different explanation. It is known to all of us that the Democratic Party of Serbia was not in the previous government. In four years of her last term, no single official in the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia has indirectly and directly set up. We as a political party, therefore, have no motive to protect anyone who has been appointed as an official anywhere in the system of state administration. So that's one, we need to understand each other. Two, we have a maximum understanding, given the circumstances, and in order not to owe it, it should be half an hour to talk about it, which is why the current ruling majority, which will also be created by the government today, has a lot of reasons to suspect that individual officials are appointed under the Law on Civil Service, based on a contest aimed at depolitisation, just politicised and political personality, likely to do their duty, if they are very, very close to political parties that have affected their establishment, do a certain obstruction. I don't say anything here that's not part of life. So this is a clear thing. So, when we fully understood with these two facts, that there is a legitimate interest, that people who come to the head of the ministry are thinking about their co-workers and ministerial assistants, who are supposed to be working in the ministry, then it follows that we have a very well-intentioned advice. So, what do you need to do? I know, and I address first and foremost the Serbian Progressive Party, the code is about this amendment and this member of the law, or I don't know, but I am convinced that the Serbian Progressive Party is actually not the creator of this provision. I suspect someone else in the ruling coalition, a smaller partner. Please take it, so don't take it the wrong way, and I'd like Alexander Vukitch to watch this, I guess he's watching, not take this as any kind of singing or need to salt someone's mind. Please take your hands of the Civil Service Act, see how the problem is solved, with which the ruling coalition can be faced, which I have defined very clearly for a moment. So, without the slightest twisting. So, this problem can be solved in a complicated way, by waiting for two negative assessments in the regular assessment of officials in a position, which requires quite a while and then it is being replaced with its functions, or it can come to an extraordinary evaluation very quickly, very effectively, and then it also comes to the shift of officials in position. So what's the difference between your text in article 38 and what I was talking about? At speed, obviously not. That's why I'm talking to the biggest foreigner in the ruling, future ruling coalitions to be very careful here. So, someone who is a minority partner wants to achieve the next effect, that this provision of article 38 is a lex pterior, not a lex specialis in relation to the provision of the Law on civil servants. Do you know what the consequences are? There are no provisions on evaluation in the Civil Service Act, they're all out. This provision of Article 38 applies exclusively to persons who are appointed as persons in a position, and therefore do not necessarily arise for them, Mrs Tabakovic, they cannot be subject to those rights which are drawn from the Law on civil servants, such as the right to employment in a lower position, etc. So this is about someone's tendency, I'm sure it's not yours, someone being replaced and thrown out. People don't fall for these kinds of provocations. You have a mechanism to finish your work as you imagined, but literally as you imagined. On the basis of the Law on Civil Service Officers and not a request, I absolutely do not request, but I ask you to accept the amendment to Article 38 and delete Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u368	Thank you for your replica, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u369	I understand that dear colleague Aligrudic interpreted my discussion not as principled but in another context. My discussion was absolutely principled, and I think the argument was clear that it should be seen what all the consequences of the adoption or non-admission of Article 38 of the proposed law, the adoption of amendments, which are proposed to delete Article 38. I wasn't saying when I first reported that there was also a obligation to analyse the effects of the regulations we have ahead of us. This is an obligation to look at all the effects of the regulation adopted and, among other things, even the financial effects if the proposed Article 38 is adopted. It's a bill of law. I fear that the adoption of Article 38 will also lead to certain financial repercusions in the event that those resolved on the basis of Article 38 happen to receive a certain compensation from the Serbian state. I think if we want to respect the Civil Service Act, we should do it. If we have any objections to the Law on civil servants, then an urgent procedure should suggest the adoption of amendments and the addition of such a law. This has not been done, and the Ministry Act itself believes that other things should be regulated, not this matter and the Civil Service Act, and thus we create a collage between two equal legal acts, or two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u370	Thank you. People's MP Sanja Jeftic-Brankovic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u371	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 38. The proposal for a law on ministries because it believes that this way is clearly creating an unacceptable legal basis for mass political layoffs and resolutions, on the one hand. On the other hand, this creates a basis for setting up new people either on a permanent or temporary basis, based on the criteria set by the Government which are not fully specified in the bill itself. I will just quote what is said, it is said – unless the civil servant in office achieved results in his work. I don't really understand what that means, do I? On what criteria will it be decided whether someone has achieved the results in their work or not? It is no doubt that the LDP believes that the state administration system is absolutely catastrophic and that the legal system of this country has been completely destroyed which, as such, prevents the normal functioning of the state administration system, but on the other hand, it is certainly possible for one such member of the bill to create a wave of political employment, which will only lead to new staffing, i.e. putting new people in the place of the old ones. In the end, what I want to add is that this law, I don't know in which way it conveys express jurisdiction and jurisdiction exclusively to the government, which is against the law, and I'm going to allow myself to say against the Constitutional and absurd thing is to allow people who are in certain positions to be replaced by themselves, and to place others, or my people in exchange for that. After all, this law is in absolute collegiation with the Law itself on civil servants, and we believe that this amendment should be completely deleted for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u372	Mrs. Comic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, the contents of my amendment to article 38 are the easiest to write. It reads: "is deleted" and the hardest to make a decision to write such an amendment. I have an ethical problem that you are putting up with the amendments that are "expect" because it is weak and rarely giving a message about the strategy that you have as an applicant for the amendment or really about what you see as harmful in the provisions. Why was such a difficult decision made and such a simple amendment written? Because I've tried all the places that I've been able to get explanations and interpretations of what the provision that we've been offered means. No one agreed with each other, and there were people who gave me different answers. When it comes to that, then I think it's a matter of courtesy to erase this member of the law. What does he produce in practice? Today, the Ministerial Law will enter into force on the day of its adoption. And so this member will come into force. His duration is 45 days. Forty-five days expires on September 10th. So on September 10th, we're going to have a list of people who didn't have a score. It is the least damaging, probably, except for damage to personal and professional quality for people in a position that will be defined for not having had a result and that they should be expelled from the authority of the administration or any body where officials are in place. It's very clear in front of us, as a list of September 10th. If the representatives of the ruling majority forget to deliver to us what a list of people any minister has concluded did not have a result, we will look for a list as well as the arguments of the Government, because it is our basic job. The other problem with this provision is it's one-time. Each government has the possibility that at any time, any minister, for any reason, will resign, be resolved or anything like that. The minister, who will then take the oath and go with the same majority or other majority, will not have the opportunity to consider whether officials in office have the result or have no result. The third problem with this provision is what period will the minister or minister look back on when assessing whether the official is in office, the civil servant has or has no result. Will they be checking out already rated civil servants, quarterly, based on the Civil Service Act, whether they're going to ask for an extraordinary evaluation or think of something else entirely different? Let's say, the fourth clue, which is why it's written "get rid of," what are you going to do with civil servants who are going to use vacations in the last 45 days? In what period will you say that they have no result. For the part they spent on the job or for some other part they've already been rated for. It is clear to me that certain provisions must be laid down in the laws and that the compromises you make when you are in coalition governments must be made. But there are compromises that do no good to anyone, and this compromise is of that kind. The law on civil servants is a law that has long been prepared and was the subject of debate and the greatest credit for entering our legal system by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS. The draft laws that entered the procedure were withdrawn, but were the subject of a detailed debate about what it is that we have to do at the beginning of a difficult process that starts the departmentization and which people are guaranteed to work in their own country, in their state administration by listening to their profession, so they behave professionally. I don't believe this provision will bring any good to anyone. The shortness of time, to which it is defined, will show exactly that it has not brought any good. Our mutual will not to repeat as the position of the former opposition's mistake and our common will not to repeat the former authorities' mistakes here can bring a good message that if we all want to see changes in Serbia together, then we should be that change, and we should renounce a provision that will not benefit anyone. The Democratic Party of 22 years has trusted a multi-party party for eight years to manage public affairs, 14 years have not. We tried never to repeat our mistakes while we were opposition and not to repeat our mistakes when we received management and public responsibility in Serbia. Now we will not repeat the mistakes made by the former opposition. There are no technical games about cards, voting, not attending, not talking about the agenda. There is a vote and presence on the day of the vote, there is participation in the Committee's work and we will show and prove that we are ready to learn from the former opposition. With the hope that today's ruling majority will also be able to learn what it proposes is not a compromise. This is passion. In politics if you let yourself not be able to control yourself, absolutely certainly, you will not be able to control public resources, you will not be able to manage public affairs well. With gratitude for the news that the amendment of MP Dragan Sutanovac has been accepted, I would eventually ask for another review of the amendment of the People's Parliament of Milica Delevic and the amendment of MP Slobodan Homen. Both amendments are of benefit, technical species. Through these examples, learning to accept the amendment is neither defeat nor victory. To refuse the amendment is neither defeat nor victory. The amendments serve to work together on what is the meaning of a provision that will change the lives of some people, many people or all people in Serbia. That's how we build responsibility together. With the hope that all together we will give up on provision 38, and that as ministers, whoever they are, we will be able to build a team of trust and with the wish that the 38th provision be in terms of building trust, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u374	The People's MP, Slobodan Homen, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u375	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38 with the same text to delete the amendment. I am not only speaking professionally, but also entering the essence of the meaning of this member of the bill and why this amendment was the only possible, and that is to be deleted. In our understanding, the understanding of the DS, the essence of democracy is respect for the good flows of predecessors, the good flows of the previous government. The Civil Service Act was passed in 2005. It was brought by the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. Three governments respected the law. Three governments had no intention of politically bringing in ministerial assistants, replacing them without any criteria, and believe me, it wasn't easy for us when we formed the government when we found people who were appointed by the DSS, but we respected the law. These people were elected in five years and it was the only possible way. The essence of this member of the law is exactly that. That, without any criteria, people get rid of their positions, lose their rights and free the place for people from other political parties to come. The law clearly determines how these people can be changed and how they can come into place. I urge you not to do this kind of political violence. This is contrary to the political promises of the department, rather than the first serious one against a constitutional step towards further partition of our society. I'll remind you of further harmful consequences. Since this law is likely to be declared unconstitutional, the question arises – what will these persons do, we will see how many people will be out of work in September. Believe me, they're all gonna sue the state, everybody's gonna make it. Serbian citizens will pay millions and millions of dinars from their pockets, from the budget, as a compensation for one reckless step, which is under one politically not good for the ruling majority, because it directly violates all political parties' election promises. I'll remind you that you've all signed that, unlike us, you'll be standing up for the detachment. I don't see how you keep that promise with this step. Of course, it's not my place to regret it, it's the responsibility you bear for the citizens, but what I have to worry about as a MP is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You're making huge expenses that citizens will have to pay sooner or later. To repeat, it will not be the wages that people will lose for this period, but rather the costs of court will be accumulated for the duration of the proceedings alone. Also, again, a very important factor that you must not forget, and you will learn as a government how important it is that you have to have co-operation and respect for international standards and EU standards. This is one of the basic standards. This law was made in collaboration with the OSCE. It is a law that has received support from the EU as well. Believe me, this is why you're going to have problems, you're going to have to change things again, and you're going to have to explain that you didn't just politically want to bring your staff. That is why I urge and ask you not to pass this law in this form, to adopt our amendments, to delete Article 38 and to show that you are truly people who keep their words, to keep their promises about the departmentization of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u376	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u377	I'm using the MP's time group. I would like to point to the citizens of Serbia on the tactics of former regime representatives and what is happening in Serbia today and what some would say is actually happening here. We're taking lessons on how to hire our staff. At that criminal time, as our political opponents would say, there were 10,000 people in the state administration. Then the liberators came, and so they freed all the institutions and all the state authorities, that today, 32,000 people are working there, and all the party personnel of the DS and other political parties that co-operated with it. You're salting our minds here and giving us a lesson about who and how it should behave in the future. Well, you've been putting every prosecutor out of your own party. You used every prosecutor, from the republican public prosecutor to the special prosecutor in the election campaign against Tomislav Nikolic. It is a unique case in the world that a republican public prosecutor is involved in the campaign and that an interview on two sides against a presidential candidate. You had everything – your party, your money and nothing else. That "your money" was people's money, you just took them in. Today you're telling us that we want some political cleanup. What kind of political cleanup are you talking about? We didn't break into football alliances, basketball alliances, put the heads of the tennis alliances in because they held the tennis ball in their hands twice. That's what you do and that's what you do. You're telling us, you're starting from what psychology calls auto-projection, you know what you are, so you think and imagine that's what we are, and then you think that everyone will do what you did and do in the previous period. I'd like to go back to the beginning now. What exactly is this about? It's about one trick, trying never to change anything in Serbia, trying to keep party media control, what we've seen through "Political", "News" and "Dnevnik", a completely non-transparent privatisation, and we'll certainly bring more information to the public in the coming days. And the participants of the process, as I understand it, will present more information about these processes in the coming days, then all the leaves look like the party bulletin DS, like Blic, to be against change in the country and against the new government, because it is much better for them to keep everything the way it was in the previous period, and they will convince us that every change is catastrophic, because only they can rule, only they can and can live well because, for God's sake, you have yachts, your ministers have yachts of 500,000 euros, your ministers cities for millions, your ministers have moved state tires to their cities to have tens and hundreds of millions of euros. They're not ours. If you have that to say for one of us, I'm sorry, why aren't we responsible for anything, why don't you go after us for anything? Let's compare and see who he is, what he's made and how, how some of us have become multimillionaires in the past so that today we can listen to all the divine days that we're some people who want to clean up somewhere, even though we're completely patient and patient, we listen to everything, unlike anyone who's ever said a different opinion, and no one has received any warning. Lead the hunt against us, not us against you. You've got it all mixed up. I know exactly what's going on and I see what happened the last two days -- let's just talk against them, especially against SNS. There's something else in psychology that I don't want to talk about right now. What are the arguments? They're gone - we've been very good. Well, you weren't very good, and that's why the people wanted to change. Don't take away our right to try and change Serbia and don't take away our right to want things to work differently. You're saying we want all your people cleaned up. No, we won't, there are many of your people who have done a good job, many of your people who will stay where they are today, even in the judicial system. You tell us – the problem is judicial costs, many will get the state of Serbia, so the taxpayers will pay for it. Is that what you're telling us, who are against the law and counter-constitutionally expelled hundreds of judges and prosecutors and kicked them out of work, and now the state has to pay who knows how much money? Talk about what the EU says. Whenever I went to Brussels five, six times, I don't know exactly, one goes, so as we get to the second topic, the extraordinary reform of the judiciary you've implemented. Now, because because of one member, because of one attitude, because I don't know which of the opportunities, it will seriously concern the OSCE and the EU, and they don't care that you left thousands of people out of work, past the constitution and beyond the law, and you still called it reforms and the EU's opposite will. How can you not remember the EU saying that the EU has requested a 24-privitation survey? Why don't you examine those 24 privatisations? Who are the people who took part in these privatisations? Both ours and yours and who knows who everything is. Let's solve these problems, let's let people see that they're all equal before the law, that those who participated in criminal activities, that they're responding. You come to total peace, I would even say in co-operation and approval of everything you do because we want normal and decent Serbia, and then you abuse it in the most brutal way, giving us lessons, and knowing what we know about how much you don't deserve to teach us. We continue to strive to show our best wishes, but we do not belong to those, at least the SNS parliamentary group, who will call you on the phone and beg you – do not attack us in the Assembly, we will do something somewhere. No, we're not going to do anything to you or us or anyone else, so you attack us freely and make SNS your biggest target. We will not offer you a Novi Sad not to attack us or any other city, we will offer our programme, our ideas and our desire to work with you and to talk to you because we consider you an important political partner on the political scene of Serbia. If you will, you will, and if you won't, it's your will, but to listen for three days – you want to have your own lunch, you want to do what you want, and you had five lunches at the same time, so you shouldn't, so it was forbidden to say anywhere, anything, anyone says about your President of the Republic and your mayor. No one could ever write a word in the paper, but you're so powerful and you're very strong because through your party bulletins, there's no offense you haven't used on our account. When someone asks you what is illegal, it is not against the law, but there will be great power. What's the problem? You had all the power in your hands. We don't have half of what you had today. Did we abuse her? Did we do something against the law? Did we persecute one of you without God forbid there's no reason for that? Have we put your faces on an APB like you're putting your time on Tomislav Nikolic and today mine? You're trying to get me to take 50 of them to provide me because you're putting a BOLO on your party bulletins against me every divine day, so my kids are scared when they go to school. I'm not taking security. You can do whatever you want. You can stick a hundred BOLOs and draw -- it's the one who's to blame for everything in the world. Yes, I'm the one who blames you for everything in the world and there's nothing you can do to me. And you won't be able to do anything for me today or tomorrow, because I will abide by the law and the morals. That's the difference between us and you, and that's no small difference, that's a big difference. It's not hard for me to say that, say, Miodrag Rakic did important and serious business for the state, and it's hard for you to say anything normally and politely about your political opponents. And that's what we're different about. We differ in what you will never be able to say – yes, there are criminals who have to be prosecuted, and from your ranks. No, you don't have them. You just happened to become suddenly the richest. How come the biggest tycoons are no longer Miskovic and the ones we've known for years and decades? How in the meantime did the tortured Mouse get at least five, six of them from your party? And everything nice and fair. It won't be. Dear friends of the DS, I'm just asking for a little understanding, for a little respect and for political opponents. Wait till you see how things work, then tell me if you don't mind. I think you can really be very pleased, if for nothing or for one fact – those who are your biggest political opponent today are normal people, people who want decent Serbia and people who don't need you to be afraid of ever, not for a second and not for a moment. As we or many of us, or many people who were close to us, feared you all along, because the government was not in the hands of the law and the Constitution, but was in your party hands. I'm just asking that we don't get a lecture on the party state from you who created the party state, which you've multiplied the bureaucracy, from you who've had everything that you've transferred to us twice as much in your hands, and today you remembered that everything you didn't want to give at any cost, you're defending others to have today. I just want to say one more sentence to the citizens of Serbia. These attacks and the tactics of the former regime will be such that these attacks will become increasingly severe. The economic interests of many are at risk, the personal interests of many are at stake. Not the interests of the Serbian state, of course. Their tactics will be that the most brutal methods, not choosing funds, are accounted for by those who want to bring change to Serbia. Our job will be to react to it peacefully, patiently, patiently, but uncompromisingly. No one will be able to, and no one will be allowed to make us give up our desire and true fight against corruption and crime, to show Serbian citizens that they can trust and that they will be able to welcome and say they see more perspectives for themselves and their children. As far as everything you're doing is concerned, I think that the citizens of Serbia are best able to assess and assess, and because of you, although I'm not going to say that falsely caring for your strength, it's not bad to look at what people think about your performance in the last month and see how much less of you would be in these benches by now that there are elections, but how many of you were on May 6th. Dear citizens of Serbia, the law and the Constitution are sacred to us, the political opponent is sacred to us, but, excuse me, we won't allow anyone or the DS to step on us just because they have party bulletins, because they are very powerful, because they are very rich and because they think they are allowed to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u378	Thank you. Mr. Micunović has a word. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u379	If Serbian citizens are watching this, they will be able to conclude two things -- or that my predecessor is in the opposition who has decided to strongly criticise those who claim to be government, or to prepare some elections within a week. Because these speeches where we address Serbian citizens and not colleagues in parliament, I think some people have confused the space and believe it's a rally. The flat-rate reviews, critics, etc., who want to either intimidate someone or pressure the media, because all the media suddenly became bulletins in this country, which means that none of the media so far is free, nor dared to say anything, I hope that there will be no opportunity for my predecessor when in two or three hours he moves from these benches to those state-owned, with planes, tanks and all the others, to have such a degree of desire to resist silence, as he had here in parliament. All this stuff you've been talking about can fit into one single sentence. I've been thinking, and I'm going to say that this is all I'm going to say, I mean, when I talk about the government, when she's having an exposé, when we see her program, then I'd like to say something about her program. What you're doing, it's a sequel, but I can understand it, people stay in the ears of some desire from an election campaign, etc. This is about one thing and we're reacting to it, and I would warn that no one thinks that here or anyone else will scare me, arrest me, arrest me, and that word, and I've had those experiences, unlike some others, and so much scarier, not to mention those times, so not now. What I am defending and defending here is freedom, democracy, and nowhere in the world is democracy being developed by the expansion of power, government, or executive power. What's called transition, and it's nothing but that we don't just have a government, just a government that can do anything, dares and knows everything, but to move it to parliament. There were a lot of good students here, we heard it all, but there's one thing. The government doesn't belong to the government... (President: Mr. Micunovic, I warn you to pay attention on time.) It's been two minutes. () Of course, when you allow a gentleman to give a lecture for half an hour addressing the opposition. (President: Mr. Vukic has the right to speak as head of the parliamentary group, using the time of the SNS Parliament Club. I'm letting you talk, I'm just giving an explanation. You have the right to report again, but compared to the replica, you've been speaking for three minutes. I'll get back to you. There are 50 of his sentences I want to talk about. But what you're doing, playing violence, it just can't. We won't let you do that. The opposition's task is to criticise the government and you won't shut us up. If you want to talk about the past, Mr. Wolfie, books are written about you and your past. I could talk about it all day. But you said we wouldn't talk about the past. And from the people who were very close to you. We want to talk about the government program. I want to talk about making a democratic and modern state. That's our job. (President: Mr. Micunovic, fourth minute.) Thank you. I'll get back to you this afternoon. Not to the citizens of Serbia, I will tell you, the citizens of Serbia know, they are the government, the government belongs to the people, we are the representatives of the people here, and we will control the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u380	As head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Wolfie, I'm just asking you to press the key. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u381	Mr. Micunovic, you have far less time for replicas. I didn't take the line on the word of one of your MPs, so I could speak for a little while longer. I'm sorry, I'm sorry you got so excited and upset, it wasn't my intention, believe me. I'm really sorry you got so upset. I haven't mentioned for a second what was in your subconscious. I don't know how you get that arrest or I don't know what, but it looks like there's a lot of stuff coming out of your subconscious, tanks and planes, I can't think of. I saw that you were losing tanks in Serbia, that it fell out of the truck, but don't worry, it won't happen in the future. As for the past and everything, I'll tell you one thing. I've made a million mistakes in my life. You must be almost innocuous and that's okay. But the size of a man is not that he will not sin, but that he will make his mistake right and confess them. On the other hand, there's only one thing I have to tell you about violence you're talking about, and you're the only one who did it, we'll never do it, and we'll never threaten anyone and we won't threaten anyone. I'm just telling you, Mr. Micunovic, I'm sorry, your party newsletters, not from today, but several years in your possession, hidden and hidden, and I'm just telling you that you're about to see how true that is, because these people themselves are going to say that they were forced, in whose name and whose account they're buying certain newspapers in Serbia. Just please, don't put the violence on us. We are timid, but we have decided not to be afraid of you in the future and we have decided that Serbia will be a normal country where no one will ever fear DS or SNS again. That's the kind of Serbia we want. To remind you, I do not have a replica, that you may warn me in time. Dear Mr. Micunovic, we wish you many successes in your work, we wish you an extraordinary political future. We're just asking you to make it possible for us in this country to try to imagine and that we can work in a democratic system, even if we're doing the same thing or a little better than what you did in the previous period. Nothing more than that. There's one more thing I want to tell you. If you thought that today, tomorrow, the National Assembly, in three months' time, would be the losing spot of the SNS, where you would say what you had in mind without the answer, there would be no, Mr. Micunovic. By the way, I read a lot about myself, and I talked about it two and three days ago. I'm sure you didn't give that kind of money to the media for nothing, and the huge money, Mr. Micunovic, and that money to the citizens of Serbia, not DS, was huge, Mr. Micunovic. Tens of millions of euros of this hungry people you gave to make your paintings beautiful and our paintings black. Dear Mr Micunovic, at least to the few places we can, which is in the Serbian parliament, democratically, we will civilisedly oppose you and nothing more. I'm sorry you can't forbid it, I'm sorry for you, but I'm glad for the citizens of Serbia that this time will never come back again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u382	People's MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Marjan Risticevic, then a replica, Mr Srdjan Mikovic, reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u383	So, Parliament Speaker, you are new to the Serbian Parliament, but you have a secretary and assistant secretary who is experienced, sitting next to you and can tell you that the speaker has to talk about the subject. So we're discussing an amendment to Article 38. Everything the head of the parliamentary group said, and it's okay that he could use the time of the parliamentary group, but everything Alexander Vukic said, as head of the parliamentary group, was out of the question. Neither are the subject of the media, nor is the subject of the judiciary, nor is the topic a brutal attack on the opposition. So this is violence, and this is verbal violence, which we've witnessed before, and you're allowing it, you're not warning him, and you're allowing unlimited, completely out of the question that we're discussing. Maybe, Mr. Wolfie, they didn't explain it well to you. You have the time of the parliamentary group, you have time as head of the parliamentary group, but only on the subject, not on the free topic which is a brutal attack on the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u384	The word is Marjan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will point to a violation of Article 104, Section 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, which says, "The replica cannot last more than two minutes." My esteemed senior colleague will certainly agree that democracy is a procedure and that, regardless of the number of years, if that does not stand in the Rules of Procedure, what applies to members of the majority is also true for members of the parties of the former regime. His replica lasted longer than four minutes. One rule that applied to me was not true of him. Also, during this replica, my esteemed senior colleague, a member of the old regime, from his existence in 1945 to today, did not stick to the subject and it is not appropriate, excuse me, do not laugh, I respect that political practice no matter what it was or how much we fought against it, and so did my esteemed colleague. In that regard, he injured Article 106(1), but it doesn't matter at all. I'm just asking the chairman that he doesn't have two Rules of Procedure. Allowing the opposition, or members of the former regime, to allow us to do the same. So, on my part, I'm not asking you to vote on it, I believe you did it out of your best intentions, but that same right at least let me do it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u386	Before I give my word to Mr. Mikovic, I would only tell you that I tried during today's session to, as I did in previous days, establish a system of tolerance related to time. I've never interrupted anyone who spent a few seconds, even a few dozen seconds overstepping the word, just wanting to allow MPs to finish their thought. Of course, I intervened, and I will, when that overrun is over, in case of replication, say something more significant. I would ask you all to, in order to reach a normal debate, in this House we speak a little more calmly and that representatives of the government and the opposition respect the business provisions that define it. Now, the right to the replica has Mr. Mikovic, and then Mr. Vukic. Mr. Mikovic came forward before this entire debate set. I didn't give him my word when he asked for a line for a debate that lasted, and now he's entitled to that word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u387	The National Assembly is currently discussing the amendment that we have submitted in the same text, both me and a large group of MPs from various parliamentary groups. I felt called here that I was the only one who couldn't stand the amendment to Article 38. I have been monitoring the development of parliamentaryism in Serbia for many years. The member of parliament was my father in several terms and did not live to challenge his right to submit an amendment. The same amendment was tabled by DSS MPs, submitted by LDP MPs, submitted by me and other DS MPs, and accused me of wanting to do something as a member of the former regime. No, I want to fix the legal text. You have been able, especially you, National Assembly President, to see all the principles of my work here in the National Assembly as part of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. That's all I'm holding on to as a National MP. Even when I proposed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to reject amendments from my parliamentary group, regardless of the authority of any legislator. We'll either stick to the profession, or we'll just talk about the papers that are ahead of us about the bill, about the amendment proposal, or we'll politicize and in some way feel threatened if we defend a certain position. Therefore, I ask you to go back to discussing whether the amendment to article 38 is right or wrong and to grant qualifications to that... One more thing, not those who apologized, Mr. Wolfie, I'm under attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u388	The word is Mr. Wolf, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u389	I wasn't, I didn't understand what it was, but if I'm anything... (Srdjan Mikovic: My amendment. () What does your amendment have to do with it? Who banned you from anything? No problem, I see something strange is happening in the National Assembly. Excuse me, please, it's my fault, Mr. Konstantinovic. You're absolutely right, it's my fault. Those hard words I used: "ex regime" and "disturbing" etc. They're really awfully rude and I'm sorry again. I accept, if it's verbal violence and if it hits you, I won't do it anymore, you don't have to worry. You don't have to worry. You're doing your job. Just please, you do your job, you'll do it, I'm sure, with a lot more rights and you'll get permission from the president of the National Assembly to do a lot easier than our MPs did in the previous period. The only thing I think, and I hope you won't forbid it, I hope you'll be doing that opposition job for a long time, not just these four years, but four years after that, and we'll keep you as a little bit of water on your palm. Trust me, we'll worry and we'll keep an eye on you. I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u390	The People's MP, Jelena Trivan, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u391	For the public and my colleague Vukic, let me get this straight. You entered the moment we discussed the amendment to Article 38. All MP groups feel in principle that the law constitutes a violation of the Law on State Servants and that it represents the return of the party state. The one you fought during the campaign, especially your coalition partners. You went in and dropped a fire on the DS, explaining her past sins, arguing with the media, which is not the subject of this debate. Especially in the rule of law, it's not a matter of debate whether you want to protect us as white bears and whether or not you want to fire someone. That's why these laws were passed in this country, so that not all new authorities would decide who they wanted to fire and whom they didn't. That's what independent commissions do. To this all parliamentary groups have given you the suggestion, to allow the process of departementisation, which began at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, not to interrupt your coming, revolutionary, to power, by having the minister arbitration decide within 45 days who is like him and who is not. You're in favor of saying that right now, how some people from the DS will protect you, and some of you won't, how merciful you'll be at heart and all that. In addition, I fully agree with Professor Micunovic, what transparency of media capital is, fortify, but don't put pressure on the media every day as the future executive authority and spread them out of this room. This is where the controversy is about Article 38. If you are so concerned about what previous governments have done, which are prone to party employment, sit with a party based on party employment, which is your coalition partner today, and discuss it. Prove you have the same arches to everyone, and do not wage personal wars with the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u392	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS entered this hall by burning first, and lynching Dragan Milanovic here, not far from here, and taking pictures that you have not yet returned here to this hall and in front of this room. It was you who used violence, used violence. You wave your hands all you want, we've never used violence. You're the one who's talking here. You're talking to the media. I don't mix with the media at all, I'm polluting with the money you took from the people to buy something. It's not about the media. It's about the crime. What is it that every time someone tells you about something that's been acquired or obtained in a corrupt way, you start to talk – it's not an attack on anything? Secondly, I was saying that we would protect your rights in the National Assembly, because the real opposition was not protected at the time when you were in power, because there were more warnings and more expelled MPs than those who would remain in the hall at certain times. It's our job to work. It's our job to oppose Caesarist powers, which you once gave to your masters, and that's what we're going to do. Don't tell us about party employment. Repeatedly because of Serbian citizens, when you entered government buildings, there were 10,000 employees in the state administration. All of you who have submitted these amendments today, meanwhile, have hired 22,000 new people on the coat of arms of taxpayers in this country, on the people's coat of arms. Now we need to do what you do, get to 54,000. Should we make another 3.5 billion losses to the budget deficit, like you did, so it's seven billion? So let's say we're the same as you. No, we have to treat what you left and did. If we fail to cure it, the complete chaos and the disaster you left in the country, we will be to blame. I admit that we will be guilty, but don't let those of you who left us the biggest budget deficit in Serbia's history, don't you who brought us into the situation that Serbia has the lowest wages in the region, that Albania has passed us by one euro, 348 to 347 euros, that Montenegro today has 493 euros on average, that you tell us that everyone else is guilty, that you are very successful and that someone is threatening you in any way. No one is jeopardizing you anywhere, we wish you all the best, we don't have any personal wars, and besides, in what you've paid dearly on the front pages and in what you've been doing in the last three days, it's mostly, to my pleasure, my pictures, since you can see how much you hate me. Why, I don't know, and I haven't done anything personal to you. But I have to admit that I'm satisfied with the fact, because I have to be a lot of trouble for you and there's something that you're so worried about and that you're just looking at this side. There's no compromise with us about the government in Novi Sad, so you don't criticize us. There is no compromise with us on the fact that corruption is not being investigated and that you should not love those who will oppose such a trade policy in every place. I'll be forever happy that you'll love me as much as you don't love me today. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u394	The word came from the Parliament of the People of Jelena Trivan, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u395	I have to admit, I'll be back on the subject again, unlike Mr. Wolf. I don't talk about my personal love for a congregation speaker, who I love and who I don't. Please tell your coalition partners, I would like them to take a position today in public, which Mr. Vukic has stated today, about the five-octobaric changes as a robbery and illegal way of coming to power. Did part of those who, as you said, steal congregation halls today sit with you in the government? Part of those who hired 22 thousand, or most of those who hired 22 thousand employees, are sitting with you in government today. And not to deceive citizens, Article 38 refers to civil servants in office. There are 420 places like that, and 300 is filled. Today we are talking about an amendment relating to 420 people. So it's not meant to save, it's meant for you to be able to bring in your listeners and change people in the competition. It's the only correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u396	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u397	Thank you, Mrs. Trivan, for telling us this. You, in fact, don't worry about these 22,000 people, you're worried about the 300 you've set up. That's the point, Mrs. Trivan. Why didn't you tell us right away? Don't worry. We'll take care of those 300 and these 22,000, and we'll take care of those pictures that I don't see here yet, and I've seen them before in 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u398	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u399	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, President of Parliament. The amendment to Article 38 was supported, I think, by all parliamentary groups of opposition for various reasons. We tried to talk about it on boards, we tried to talk about it both in principle and obviously not worth it. They only repeat once more for public reasons, so as not to lead people astray. Therefore, Article 38 was designed for one single reason only, which is to enable the political cleanup of civil servants in place. State officials are part of the state administration, so the state administration and they must be professionals. We have heard much that this will introduce order and thus reduce the number of unemployed, i.e. employees in the state administration. I don't know how it's going to reduce the number of government employees by solving one without any criteria, and then setting up acting officers that you're going to hire again, I guess, someone for good. So it's about people who have been chosen as professionals in the competition, solving politically, and that's the only reason one of these members is brought in. About the number, she mentioned something about a colleague named Trivan. As far as I have information, a total of civil servants in office in this country are set up in a 200 hundred competition. Those 200 people were put in competition and met the criteria of the competition. You can't solve them politically and based on the minister's opinion that they don't meet some tasks we don't even know who they are. So, if you're, as you say, normal people, if you're, as you say about department, don't make it possible for a political cleanup, in 2012, various governments survived the State Administration Act. Accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u400	People's MP Aleksandar Jugovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u401	My respects. I will talk about amendment 38 to the draft ministry law and thus try to focus my discussion on the topic on today's agenda. It is very important, in addition to the arguments brought out by my colleagues from the DSS and the LDP, to ask the question – by which criteria a period of 45 days has been set for one ministry official to prove whether he is doing his job properly to the minister. If it's a practice to give the government 100 days, then I don't know what the criteria are taken in 45 days. If we are fighting for the department, the minister who comes to the minister's post in a particular ministry is a party official, and the people elected to the ministry's leading posts have passed the competitions. Is the departmentalization that a party official at will after 45 days, and we all know that in 45 days, the new minister can only get to know the section of his work, is it logical that he fires state officials? By this principle, we know by this intensity what this is about, and I would pray that all those pre-election promises begin to be respected for the reason that there will be no patience with the opposition, as there is neither patience nor with the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u402	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u403	I'm reporting because I feel offended that someone here is saying, "Are you crazy?" I wonder if the one who's been brought back by the EU judges is normal? Is it normal to hire a middle-level administration? Was it normal for the one who hired 150 Roma coordinators by asking them - did you glue three posters to a particular democratic party? What do I mean by that? I'm sure you wouldn't have come to this if you'd done it by law. This is an attempt to correct all the illegalities you've done so far. Irregularity must be brought to order. Your desire to put everything under your own affairs must be brought to order, and I would really not talk now about what MPs visited Austria, Austrian lawyers and through Austrian lawyers and offices in Serbia were doing various pressures. I think it's unnecessary for us to talk today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u404	The replica was answered by Slobodan Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u405	Thank you. I would like to remind you of the presentation of a respected DSS colleague who clearly explained the way and functioning of the Civil Service Act. There's no need to fire people within 45 days, because whoever worked at the ministry knows that in 45 days, you can't really judge who's capable or not. There are clear mechanisms in the Civil Service Act for all those civil servants in a position that didn't work well to be replaced, it's an extraordinary evaluation. It'll take two, three months longer, but I don't think it'll be a disaster. So every guy the new government wants fired has a mechanism if he's not doing a good job. Why do you do that for 45 days? Why throw a shadow at the new government? Why throw a shadow at their promise of State Department? I have to say something else at the end of the truth for the will, so we hear various qualifications from the fact that there were 10,000 employees, that during Slobodan Milosevic, if there were so many, but also one fact that no one here has said that during this government, the number of civil servants has been reduced by 10%. It's a clear mathematical process, a clear calculation and we can't discuss it. Has there been any increase in the last ten years? Yes, but for these governments, it's reduced by 10%, and that's a real fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u406	The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u407	Of course we are in favour of accepting this amendment for the following reasons. It is indisputable that all governments have tried to put state administration under party control since 2000. In the process of department, the State Administration Act sort of entered. It is true that there are also likely to be a large number of party personnel set up there. However, if we have entered into some process of professionalisation of the state administration, if we have entered the process of departisation, then we see this proposal of Article 38 as a turning back step, as a wish for all the concentrations of the government to be in the government and in the ministries, and this has to do with amendments and additions to the Government Act that we are going to talk about now, because in this we recognize some of the intentions that are not good for us. That is why MPs of the SPO and DHSS in this assembly will criticise all the bad solutions and make an argument. In doing so, we will not look at any political party, but above all at what the state's interest is, as no matter what side the good solutions come from, we will support them. I say, when we talk about the Government Act, we'll see a desire to concentrate in one person a great power of control over all security services and armed forces, which is once again ahead of us to take a step back and behind that can stand some intentions, which are not good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u408	Thank you. Are there any more registered speakers?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u409	Ladies and gentlemen, I have patiently listened to members of the former regime, trying to understand their amendment, and I have come to the next conclusion that they have made a party out of the state, and in a public competition they have held a party contest where they have received their party people and it seems to me to be a whole 420 people. Now they've been scurrying over the fate of those 420 people. Gentlemen of the former regime like this, let me tell you that I lost my job on October 5th, 2007. By being replaced by the Democratic Party from the seat of the President of the Assembly in the Water Administration building in India. That minister of yours wrote that it's okay and he sailed somewhere with that white ship of yours. He wrote that it's okay and your judiciary answered me like this, the prosecutor - that there was no criminal responsibility, because the executive authority, which should be separated from the legislation, said it was okay and that was enough for the prosecutor to dismiss my criminal charges. That's how I lost my job, which doesn't matter. In the last year and a half, while you've been in charge of Serbia and not the money you've been taking, you've been running through production to wages and pensions, but you've spent most of it on the party and public spending, there are 16,000 entrepreneurs missing in this country, the company. There are over 160,000 people out of work in these companies. In other branches, 80 and some thousands of people are out of work. A total of 250,000 people lost their jobs for the last two years of your reign. I didn't see you moaning about those people who are no longer dogs. There's nothing to bite for. The only lustration you've ever carried out under the two thousand-and-a-half-year law is the lustration of factory workers. There's nothing else you've lustrated except factory workers and farmers from the fields. So much for firing you, and what you're saying is that someone wants to change the law and legally fire those you thought of as professionals just because they served you well. Not to mention those 2,000 advisors, hired by the minister against agriculture right before the election campaign. It's proof that you made a party out of the state and that you made your own private business out of the party. You, who are legally out of a job, take these private companies of yours, those companies you've made rich, fill your pockets by making private business out of your public functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u410	Thank you. As we no longer have registered speakers, I apologize to Mr. Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u411	In a way, I'm going to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Article 103 and as regards Article 106, that the MP may speak of the item of the agenda under consideration. Please give me an answer to the question – is Mr. Risticevic an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party or of the entire coalition in the hall, giving us lessons on issues that are not on the agenda? So, Mr. Marjan Rističević, reporting on agenda points and amendments are not the subject of his discussion, gives us lessons, talks about the regime etc. I ask you, is he an authorised representative and for which you allow him to violate the Rules of Procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u412	Mr. Risticevic appeared as a National MP, who has the right to speak about the amendment. When he spends two minutes, which he is entitled to, he uses the remaining time of the SNS parliamentary group. As for the time he's spent, he's got quite enough, he's got 65 minutes from the SNS parliamentary group. As far as the subject is concerned, Mr Risticevic has spoken less of the subject than any previous speakers who have adhered to the amendment to Article 38. As far as I'm concerned, I think he was talking about the subject of setting up government officials, by taking advantage of his own personal example to back up his claims. Of course, if you insist, we can make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u413	Of course, I insist that in the voting day on the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been injured and that the other MPs have also abused the Rules of Procedure is no excuse whatsoever.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u414	I didn't say the other MPs abused the Rules of Procedure. I said he talked about the subject as much as anyone else as I interpret that he was talking about the subject. The National Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 38? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would take the opportunity to confirm the mandate of the MPs to whom the mandates have been assigned by the Decision of the Republic Election Commission, so I would ask the MPs to enter the hall. At the same time, I would like to inform you that today we will continue our work after 18.00 hours, and that we will hold a special session, scheduled for 15.00 hours immediately after this session is over. Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate of Members of Parliament to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. You also received a Report from the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with the MPs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Dr Aleksandra Radojevic, Milan Kovacevic, Zeljko Sušec and Milanki Jevtović-Vukojičić, elected from the electoral list Let's move Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic; Radoslav Milovanovic, elected from the election list Selection for a better life – Boris Tadic; Aleksandr Pejčić, Dejan Mihajlov and Gorica Gajic, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica and Enis Imamovic, elected from the election list of the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak – Dr Sulejman Ugljanin. On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Dr Aleksandar Radojevic, Milan Kovacevic, Zeljko Sušec, Milanki Jevtović-Vukojičić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Aleksandr Pejčić, Dejan Mihajlov, Gorica Gajic and Enis Imamovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to wish you a successful joint working time. We're going back to work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Government Laws. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gorica Mojovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Srdjan Mikovic on the bill. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Before opening the search in particular, I remind you that MP Ivan Jovanovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislation considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u415	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act, I have tabled three amendments in the same text. All three amendments are "expect" and I didn't have any dilemma about the fact that I had to submit these amendments with this content. Why? Because I believe that the proposal for this law is too high, unconstitutional, contrary to the Law on State Administration, and I would say not democratic, but also anti-European. I also believe that it is contrary to the other laws that this Assembly has passed, thanks to which independent bodies, the institutions of this country have been formed, and the appointed bodies of the same institutions, so I would say that, in a good part of this bill, the proposal derogates the National Assembly itself, because it takes away the right to continue in this particular area in the same way as the adoption of laws and the formation of bodies of independent institutions, and then I had to wonder what the motive for adopting this law was and tried to find it in the explanation and what it says in this bill and in what we had the opportunity to hear from the legislator. One very seductive explanation is given, and it concerns the abolition of the various agencies for which I assume... Could the chairman give me some order? I really can't talk. Perhaps some here have forgotten that they are no longer the opposition and that they should act as a position now. (President: Vesna Kovac): I ask the messengers of the people to listen to the message of the people. I'm really not making a problem, and I'm not yelling and yelling, so I'd like to pray that I have the same treatment. So I assume that neither in this room nor outside this room there is a person who does not think that Serbia has too many agencies, that the competences of these agencies are often intertwined, clashed with the responsibilities of the ministries, that different fees, fees, etc. what they're wasting, what they're spilling and spilling just because of these mixed responsibilities, and it's not disputed. The existence and jurisdiction of all these agencies should be reviewed and, of course, abolished. What's the problem? The largest number of these agencies was founded by the government. The way she started them, she can take them out. What is the problem is that this bill puts the government under control, that is to say, under government control and all public authorities at the level of the Republic, so not just some agencies, not just those that are a distraction. Who are the public authorities at the level of the Republic? The National Bank of Serbia, DRI, Commissioner for the Protection of Citizens' Rights, Commissioner for Information, Competition Protection, Anti-Corruption Agency, Fiscal Council, the government of the AP Vojvodina, authorities in the city of Belgrade, local self-government, university, may not be the first experience and for the first time introduced into practice to abolish the autonomy of universities, RRAs, etc. These are all institutions established by the special laws adopted by the National Assembly, whose bodies are appointed in this National Assembly, all of which are institutions over which the Government cannot and must not have control. Therefore, this law restricts the independence of these institutions, puts them under government control, and, as I said, the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is also limited to good work. We had a chance to hear from the promoter that it wasn't gonna be you, that it wasn't going to be Simeon. Where does that say? You can't leave it at good will, for the word of honor, on "mothers we" we don't want these, but we'll leave some others, who we don't like, or who bother or interfere with. Of course, there is no illusion that independent institutions are doing their job in the best possible way. In the previous period, we had the opportunity to hear that many independent institutions were dissatisfied with the work of government, individual bodies, that they had no good working conditions, and even the government was once not satisfied with the work of these independent institutions, and I think that all of this is good for democracy. It is the process of democratisation of our society, that is, the process that we started, which is far from ideal, but I'm afraid this bill stops the process and that the new government shows a dangerous tendency to put everything under its control. Are these independent institutions under control and is there a possibility of their control? Of course, there is and does not understand why it was necessary in addition to the existing State Administration Act, which, in Article 5, provides for very precise mechanisms and these institutions, to pass a law that generally puts us under the control of the executive government, or the Serbian Government. What is very interesting is to say at the end of this bill that this law should not be harmonised with EU rules. I believe that the fundamental principles of the EU are exactly the independence of institutions. Besides, we'll see for a while. I guess a new report from the European Commission will also arrive on Serbia's progress, so we'll see if this law is exactly praised or marked as a step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u416	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislation considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u417	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable Vice-President of Parliament, I have submitted the amendment, and we have debated this a lot in principle and I had hoped that we had an understanding and that this amendment would go after what the billmaker wanted to do, and that is to put it under control or under the supervision of the public agency, as explained in the bill's proposal. In the light of the proposal for a law, it states that this applies to agencies with public authority. Since that's what it says in the light of the bill's proposal, and that's not what it says in the text of the law, I have proposed an amendment in that direction. Today we had a debate on the Committee on Justice, where we offered some more opportunities and we offered the possibility to refer to the holders of public powers whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia or to the holders of public powers under the Law on State Administration. The State Administration Act tells whom public authority can be entrusted. None of these proposals by the ruling majority and the billmaker wanted to adopt. All reasonable proposals aimed at improving the text of the law, only because they came from the opposition, were rejected and the ruling majority did not accept them. On that occasion, we heard, in a discussion on the board, by the legislators that both the public authority holders are considered both the Bar Association and the engineering chamber. It would really be not one step backwards that we talked about the previous law, but I don't know how many years ago, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can annul the acts of the Bar of Lawyers, or that it can undo the acts of the Engineering Chamber. I'm really asking you to accept some of these amendments. Because in this way it is obvious that the ruling majority is trying to put all institutions in this country that have public authority under the government of the Republic of Serbia. Nowhere does it say that this does not apply to any established law, or to any established by the Assembly, or to any non-professional association. No, it's about everything. It'll be an interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u418	People's MP Srdjan Mikovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u419	I absolutely support previous speakers and amendment promoters that a member should or should be deleted, i.e. to accept a certain correction that would define what the concept of a public authority holder means, in the sense of this law. The fact is, there's a law on state administration in force. The law in Article 4 defines that certain state administration transactions can be entrusted by law to autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities, the city of Belgrade, public enterprises, institutions, public agencies and other organisations. However, public authorities are also other entities. Public authority is a broader concept than concept – the affairs of the state administration. The concept of the state administration's business is something of a rope, but of public authority. Certain public authorities also have courts. The president of the country also has certain public powers. There are also certain public authorities of the National Bank, Frankfurt, DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency, including the Bar Association. All these individual areas are regulated by the Constitution, and at all who is the bearer, or who is the owner. It used to be the concept of public authority, and now it's a concept of public authority. So someone like that is established by the Constitution, but as such by law. In certain matters, the government has certain powers in terms of control, but in terms of independent regulatory bodies, there is no way that the Government can have those powers that, if we adopt, the unchanged bill will have. On the other hand, it is questionable – will independent regulatory bodies continue to be independent regulatory bodies? Why do I say that? Because other than the Constitution and the Constitution, no law can be contrary. Compared to the laws currently in force, any new law can also change that matter. We don't have a hierarchy of regulations that now, if the Anti-Corruption Agency Act is something regulated in one way, if we now pass a law like this, this law will apply. There will be a conflict between one law and another, and this will lead to problems in practice. That is why I believe that the proposal by my colleague Konstantinovic on the Committee on Justice is correct, when requested, or that the public authority holders are defined by where the founder of the Government is, or that public authority holders are defined within the meaning of the Law on State Administration, to refer to the affairs of the state administration. It would be no dispute if, in terms of state administration affairs, everything could be done properly. I point to one more thing. As far as the Law on Public Agencys is concerned, there will also be problems and cohesion if this law is adopted unchanged in relation to the applicable Public Agency Act. That's why I think it was better, especially if this government law wasn't timely, that we're in a time frame now, that we have to vote before the government's election, that law goes into effect only in some future period after the government's election. It's better if we did it right, so we don't cause these misunderstandings. My suggestion was that even that law should be withdrawn. In any case, I think it is necessary to accept at least these corrections, as Mr Konstantinovic presented on the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u420	Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u421	I would not have answered again if there were not indeed some notorious untruths that could lead to error among Serbian citizens. The National Bank has original powers and can't be considered an institution that has delegated powers and cannot be subject to a term – public authorities. For that you don't have to be a lawyer, it's enough that you want to tell the truth. The only independent body in terms of the essence of the word "independence" is the judicial branch of government in this Serbia. All other authorities are independent in the exercise of their authority, their work, and every civil servant. Why do you replace the word "self-sufficient" with "independent" and make them synonyms even though they're not in the sense we're talking about, it's a particular question. The most interesting question is why are you so keen to inform the public that we are thinking that by abolishing the excess number of agencies, we are, in fact, secretly and seemingly transforming all the institutions in this country? I owe it to the citizens, who have no insight into this argument, to read what it says. Article 1 - the responsibility of the government is also being extended to the work of public authorities holders at the level of the Republic, which is important because much of the jobs and powers of the state administration have been passed on to public agencies and other holders. Mr. Konstantinovic deceived the public by saying that it was only public agencies in an explanation, and he writes – to other public authorities at the level of the republic. Why does this have to be done? Because the scope and character of these powers is such that their work has an important impact on the implementation of the law, and indirectly, on the conduct of economic policy, and on making it harder to function for the sake of creating the costs of making the rules that these public authorities make, by charging various permits, conditions, certificates, papers, and not using a word that is often considered to be the right thing to get you once and for 10 years, and you get it once and every year, you have to renew it, like some licences, by charging a single 2000-euro licence, and when someone does not renew it, loses the right to do that job at a time when you talk about employment, about the lack of work for people, about an empty budget, etc. The reason why this law is passed, where the Government will be responsible for the regulations passed on to those to whom public powers are conferred, is because regulations are adopted which make it difficult for businesses to work, not only in terms of the various papers to be obtained, but because it costs, and costs disproportionately in relation to the records from which that paper is issued or cost disproportionately in terms of verifying the fulfilment of the conditions for dealing with certain activities. Why are you pretending you don't understand? They'll understand when this comes into effect. What's the big deal? The government's responsibility otherwise exists under Article 57. The State Administration Act to control those regulations and those costs. There are many large lawyers here, excellent lawyers, I am an economist who has to deal with the law because he deals with the economy, but you know perfectly well what experience is in the countries of Europe, in the old traditional democratic societies that have a much longer practice of introducing such bodies and you know perfectly that the concept of state administration in a narrow sense and in a broader sense, not by any chance, Serbian citizens, does not involve regulatory bodies. Neither those related to broadcasting, or telecommunications, nor energy in terms of laws or agencies on energy, because these are agencies and bodies derived from specific laws. I ask you nicely, collegiately, we always cooperate nicely – why do you pretend not to understand that it's not just agencies because some authorities don't have the name of agencies, but by the way they do business, they bring regulations, what costs they make, in fact public agencies. But some public agencies that have it in their name don't fall under this law at all. That is why the term is used – bearers or public authorities. It's written a lot about the Public Agency Act, which was passed in 2005 and which I called the Guild Tower in Pisa, which is a monument. This law must be corrected and it must be part of a consistent legal system, not in accordance with that false tower, but not in monumental and tourist attractions, but in an anomaly in the legal system, not in accordance with other laws, but in order to correct it. You had the opportunity from 2005 to 2012 to call precisely the public authority holders all those who really are and to set some criteria for this. Not that you didn't, but most often you used the provision of that law where it says so, and you were deliberately denied the amendment, where you are asking it to be and only to be valid for those set up by the Republic. It's too narrow a circle and a lot of them stay out, and that's not the point and we said it openly. Article 8. The law on public agencies says: "The real founder on behalf of the Republic of Serbia is the government, if the special law does not specify anything else." That – if it is not otherwise specified, it is such a breadth and such a possibility of abuse that you have, that I do not go further, the Privatisation Agency which was founded by the money of Serbian citizens. When she had the money, she wasn't in control, nor was she transferring the budget to income. Now that we've spent that cash register, we'll see where, it's been returned to our budget since last year, to fund it, too. Not that you can't argue, knowing what this means, you can't also challenge us or yourself. Do not use your close professional interests to refuse this solution. I'm not going to tell anyone that you're in charge of party, just business, we're all citizens of Serbia, but don't let your lawyer or any other kind of personal business cloud Serbia's interest in living and working, because you're not only a lawyer, but you're also a customer, but you're also someone whose wife is going to open a private company, and they're going to meet up with these costs, problems, WBs that make us at the top of countries that aren't willing to invest because of these procedures and costs that can't be called either a fee or a fee, or any other service that the state repays you for the money that some kind of organization takes on behalf of the state because the state in one such home gave her the right, at least, to one such bad law on public agencies. We'll change a lot. This is minimum necessary for start-up, but it's not any cut and guillotine without measuring and without calculating how much it means and how much it costs. Do not be afraid, we will meet here every Thursday and every Tuesday on parliamentary matters, on laws, and you must be prepared to work together on the application of this initial law which must impose order in the country of Serbia because it is too expensive to cost us this kind of disorder or possibly indifference according to what can't be called a regulatory body, or someone who originally exercises his powers. Chairman, I will no longer report for any amendment, because I have given an explanation for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u422	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u423	I couldn't agree with the conclusion that, apart from what I said here, anything else I thought or wanted. I speak out loud and loudly and suggest that if the bill is adopted unchanged, the government will have certain powers under this law, not only according to the state administration, but not only to those public authorities who carry out the tasks of the state administration, but to all public authorities. I order that Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its position 2 says that certain public authorities can also be entrusted by law to companies, institutions, organisations and individuals and public authorities by law, that is, Section 3, and special bodies through which regulatory functions are exercised in certain areas or activities. What's this about? In the Constitution itself, individual independent institutions have been defined. The Constitution itself defines the conduct of certain, their powers and who controls them, in terms of public authorities. However, in the bill of law, we do not only stop at the affairs of the state administration and public authority in the conduct of the state administration's affairs, but we practically allow the government to intervene against all public authorities. There is no such limit anywhere, and if the law is read as proposed, practically all those bodies through which a regulatory function is exercised in certain areas and activities can be subject to government control, repealing regulations and everything else. That's why I appealed - let's define that the public authorities, that term is interpreted in the sense that the State Administration Act, that's what the state administration is doing, and that's what public authorities are doing in performing the affairs of the state administration, but not the other. I'm afraid this will question the constitutional and legal position of all those who need to be independent. A whole series of procedures for reviewing the constitutionality of these provisions will be opened.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u424	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u425	We've had a really good deal on this, and obviously we can't get along and get along. We cannot understand and agree, DS and SNS, for one simple reason that our policies are completely different and that our understanding of the division of governments and institutions in this country is completely different. So, at the time of last term, full affirmation was given independent regulatory bodies. We passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and allowed it to be established. The full affirmation was achieved by the Guardian of Citizens and the Trustee of Information, the DRI, and it just never occurred to us to try any act to get them under control. Now it's obviously time for another policy, and that policy goes to it, I am a lawyer, and I have to speak for the association I belong to, and that's the Bar Association, so the Government of the Republic of Serbia can't annul the laws of the Bar Association. The Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot annul acts of the Engineering Chamber. So it's not the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that's what we're fighting here and we're absolutely political and professional in our business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u426	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u427	I thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to this bill. I think there's been an obvious mistake. I do not believe that it may have even been deliberate to this extent, listening to Mrs Tabakovic, since I believe that everything she said about the agencies set up by the government, which are in this sense completely clear, is essentially true. On the other hand, I think that, as we talked about and in principle when we talked about this, it really took a minimal effort to put more precisely into this provision than public authorities thinks or not to put this part at all, just because, on the one hand, it unnecessarily encroachs on the issues of other laws, and at the same time, although I agree, that there is no confusion, to write in the Constitution, why, for the government, it was difficult for the regime to clearly specify it here, that citizens would not have a legitimate fear of what you are suggesting, really systemic solutions? If these are the first initial steps of the new regime, in two days we realized how important it is to concentrate power in one man and we realized how irrelevant it is to specify the final provision of the Government Bill. Fully unnecessary behaviour of the regime in a situation where citizens really want to know what the provision on public authority holders applies, as bearers of the country's order. If we rightly question the motivation of the regime, it is the regime to convince us that our fear is unfounded. They're not gonna do it now, of course. We have no illusions that one of our amendments will adopt. I think these two days have really been effective in showing how much they care about the agreement, how much they care about constructive, persistently insisting on things that aren't about the agenda and not about this assembly. I hope that it will gradually disappear, because that is not why we are here, and at least that someone is giving us lessons, stegmatizing and criminalising the political parties that have been elected by citizens in this House. Then it is still spoken and expected - we will always answer you. We will always answer you because you have this extraordinary ability to suggest bad things, because you are forced by the compromises you've made to crush the government. Don't lecture the opposition about what we can talk about and what we can't do and that you're not afraid of us. We know very well. If this is how you started, on seemingly benign things like this, how are you going to end up? That's exactly what citizens, who already see the true nature of this regime, through the various solutions you've made in these two days, are indeed confirming that this position, that this government and this regime, unfortunately, is changing the thesis and using the pay phone for inadequate things. We've told you nicely, precisely, Mrs. Tabakovic, no one here talks about the parties, nor are we talking about your past, nor are we talking about names, we're just asking - why in this provision couldn't four additional words have been added to the sentence? We didn't get an answer, but it's said that some agencies aren't doing well and they're out of control. We agree, but let's make that clear. Why is it so difficult to accept, and you are calling for unity of construction and joint work for the benefit of citizens? That's what we want. Instead, we heard again that he was going to fight crime and corruption. Well, that's what we want. We know that the sword of justice that you fantasize about will catch everything equally. That's why the citizens chose you. Don't point your finger at us, we've lost the election. Here, swing the sword, but hit everywhere, left and right. We'll only get out stronger. You will help us with this, and that is why we look forward to it. One more thing, so I don't have to stay. I'm sorry that the gentleman came out, but if we're going to talk about burning down the Assembly, I have to say this in the end, for these things he can ask many of yours in the coalition, and perhaps the best Chacan shock battalion from New Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u428	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u429	To be honest, in the hope that in the debate, in principle and on committees, we will come up with some solution that can satisfy both the legislator and which will receive the majority here in the National Assembly, I have submitted amendments to Article 3, and on Article 3, at least tried to avoid the irreparable harm of adopting this Article 2. Because if we are left with the position of Article 2 unchanged, the possibility of repealing and repealing the rules is at stake, not only by the authorities of the state administration, but by the possibility of abolishing the rules of all public authorities in the Republic of Serbia. On the side that we can talk about certain things, I have just mentioned something, that the expression at the level of the Republic is not sure that it is quite clear, it is better that on the territory of the Republic of Serbia or some other expression is clearly used. The second thing, in terms of the very rules that one member of the Amendment Act is treated as one member of the basic law, and we here have practically to be treated by Articles 2 and 3. The bill is practically prepared by a member, together with the title of that member. Therefore, Articles 2 and 3 treat the title above Articles 8 and 8. But, on the other hand, this is the first proposal in this assembly of MPs, and I hope that when the other bill arrives that it will also be legal-technically, no-technically better done than this. Now, I ask you to accept my amendment in the voting day, accept the erasure of Article 3, paragraph 2, because this will prevent all public authorities' regulations from being annulled at the level of the Republic. I repeat, all public authorities, not only public authorities, but all public authorities, but also public authorities, and the issue and systematicisation of the Office of the President of the Republic, is that the regulation of a public authority holder? Yes, it is. I don't think the government can influence that. That is why I appeal once again, even if you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u430	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE PROPOSE ON THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW ON THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE BASE OF THE BASE OF THE FUNDMENTS OF THE SERVICES OF THE SREBILITY OF THE REPUBLICS OF SRBJE You have received amendments submitted on the proposal by the National MPs Gordana Čomić, Snežana Malić, Boris Stefanović, Dr Jorgvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Prof. Dr. Marko Aklagić, Mr. Zoran Babić, Mr. Igor Blažić, Dr. Branislav Blažić, Marija Bleć, Stana Božović, Zoran Božić, Jelena Budimirović, Ljubić, Ljubica Vasc, Mirna Žažanović, Mirić, Mirožna Valić, Mirić, Bratić, Bratić, Bratislav Vlin, Bratislav Žurić, Bratislav Žurić, Ivan Žurović, Ivan Žurović, Ivan Žarić, Šarić, Šar, Stefan, Šar, Šarkoković, Šarkoković, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Šar, Šlatić, Šlatić, Šlaktić, Šlatrić, Milan, Šlatrić, Milan, Šlaktrić, Ivan, Ivan, Šktić, Z. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Security Control. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is based on Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The rejected amendment cannot be debated. You don't vote on them. I also remind you that a group of 45 MPs from the SNS Group, written on July 26th 2012, withdrew the amendment to article 1 with corrections. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u431	Ladies and gentlemen, the second amendment today in the debate in particular on draft laws which are the most easily written and most difficult to decide that such content of the amendment be submitted to the procedure. So Article 1 is deleted. Why do I find that the hardest to decide? Because I believe that the amendment process aims to see exactly how the provision to which you want to submit the amendment will be applied to whom it will produce the consequences, how these consequences will be produced and everything that means the functioning of the law once passed in the National Assembly. The decision to delete this article was made because I can't write better than what was proposed and I don't think it should be as proposed. Whether or not my proposal or the proposal of the Proposer is in accordance with the Constitution and the law remains for interpretation. What is not left for interpretation and what could have been obtained as information, I hope to be denied in the information that has been circulated between both the parliamentary groups and the National Assembly in the public that one minister, one prime minister, will be appointed Secretary-General. That's not good. It is not good because the minister or vice-president of the government is concerned, if he is the Deputy Prime Minister at the same time as the leader of a political party. It won't produce good consequences for anyone. I have no doubt in this matter of expertise, nor in the right of the person spoken of to be neither future, nor the current president of the political party, nor the elected minister, nor the Deputy Prime Minister, if he is the Deputy Prime Minister, but I believe that looking through the consequences of such a decision-making process is not good for anyone. First, it's not good for that minister. On the other hand, the reason why I should write to delete is also in public that the Minister of the Ministry of Interior, who is currently prime minister and vice-president of the Government, has had serious objections in the current way that, in accordance with the Republic President's Law, he was appointed, or who was in place, whose provision of the Law on Fundamental Regulation is changing. So the main observation was that the Ministry of Interior was not informed about the various things that were being negotiated on this body, that he did not know about the various events that were being decided on this body, so then I don't see how he'll know now. So that the double negative print of this irrevocable decision that the executive power in the form of a minister, the political authority in the form of a single party president will be solely in charge of the security services will not bring good consequences. I have no hope this amendment will be adopted, but I have an obligation to defend what basic freedoms and rights are achieved when it comes to civilian security control in the Republic of Serbia. Welcoming the end of this address, the decision to make a truly precedent that has not been seen in parliaments and that the ruling majority by its decision, an extremely important committee for the next four years, remains in Serbia, is being led by opposition political party representative Milica Delevic of the DS, so it is a bold move. I would like to see that courage in the ruling majority and in the defense of these fundamental freedoms and rights. Especially since we have a choice and a decision on two other commissions ahead of us. The Commission for the exercise of criminal sanctions and the Commission, adopted in this assembly under Resolution 1325, should give a report to the UN Security Council on the state of security in Serbia. I hope the same courage as when it comes to the Committee on European Integration and in deciding who will form the composition of these two committees whose choice awaits us sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u432	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u433	I am in favour of accepting this amendment, because the explanation given by the amendment and supplemental to the Law on the Fundamental Regulation of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia is to introduce professionalisation, separation of the most responsible functions and managers of certain services and to extend the space of democratic and civil control of the security service. I think the public is aware that since its establishment, the SPO has been dealing with these topics, and we are asking that we simply do what has been done in our country in all countries, which have gone far beyond what we have done with Serbia since the introduction of the multi-party system, and above all I think of the countries of the former eastern bloc, in the degree of democracy and economic development. Unfortunately, there has been no political will so far. Except for SPO, LSV, DHS, LDP, no political party has supported this proposal. This is where the government says it wants to join the EU. I don't know in which EU country and democratic world it is possible for the ruling party to be the military minister, the head of all civilian and military security services, and the prime minister announces that he will also be the police minister. These are, to remind you, old disunited services. Instead of opening the files, dealing with organised crime in a deeper, more comprehensive way, investigating crime in privatisation, etc., preserving the existing situation and, in our opinion, carrying out an inadmissible concentration of power. That is contrary, it seems to us, to the basic European principles. I would remind you that a recent protest was held, as they were banned from a strike, a security officer in France, who opposed the fact that one member of the service, who in their opinion was not fully responsible for professional quality and professionalism, came to a certain place. Their protest worked, and they were able to act in a place where someone who's a professional should be, like, a professional comes along. I think we got clear messages from Brussels. That we should open secret files, reform security services, deal with the most controversial major criminal privatisations, but we do not see that intention in this, nor in all discussions of the future ruling majority have we recognised such intent. The main task of the Security Service is to protect society and the state, not just political power. The state can be safe, but citizens in the country can be both not safe and threatened by organised crime, terrorism, political authorities. Unfortunately, Serbia is filled with such negative experiences. This is what I'm saying right now because of my negative experiences and my fear of going back to negative experiences. I'm not saying it's intent, but justifiable and reasoned fear exists. The degree of democracy and reformation of the security sector is precisely an indication of the democracy of the entire society. Changes in the security sector may be a contribution, but there may also be a threat to the security of citizens. That's my political party's point of view. All our services and police are burdened with insufficient deviation from the communist model of secret police and militia. I think we should accept this amendment and that the Government should also show what it declares in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u434	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. Mr. Konstantin Samofalov answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will vote in favour of Mrs. Snezana Malovic's amendment and I will explain why. My colleagues from the ruling coalition, colleagues who are on the Security Control Committee, have decided to propose to the Assembly not to accept this amendment, or the concept of civil control does not understand, which I believe makes them not competent to deal with such complex work as security control or understand it very well, but they want to kill every civilian and democratic control. In light of the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Security Service Foundation Act, which you have submitted, it is said that you want to extend civil and democratic control. It's not clear to me how it expands civil and democratic control by focusing in the hands of a man. We have a situation here that Mr. Vukic, who is said to be the new Secretary of the National Security Council, expert and military, as future defence minister, and for corruption, and for security, as future Deputy Prime Minister, and security services. He's an expert absolutely for everyone. In order to bring Serbia's citizens closer to what is at all the essence of civil and democratic control, I will say that it deals not only with parliament, but also with the president of the Republic, the ministries dealing with the defence and security sector, the media, NGOs, citizens. The essence of civilian control is that it expands, not that all hands of one man are crushed. This is like that old people's saying to me: the incense sues you, the incense judgeth you. So far, the solution has been such that the Secretary of the National Security Council is the head of the President of the Republic's cabinet. I understand that the new president, Mr. Tomisla Nikolic, may not trust his chief of staff. If he doesn't have that trust, neither can we. That's why we're offering a compromise solution. With this amendment, we propose that the president certainly propose his Secretary of the National Security Council, because it is in the interest of civil and democratic control, but that not all power, as I said, be concentrated in the hands of one man, in this case probably, Mr. Vukic, we suggest that the secretary cannot be appointed from the ranks of members of the National Security Council, and Mr. Vukic, as defence minister, is. I'm going to remind you once again of something that's been going on in the past few days, and it says, in addition to the fact that you obviously, even though you haven't moved to the ministerial chair yet, you're trying to contain every civilian and democratic control. The fact is that you have violated the rule, which was established since 2004, that the president of the most important assembly committees should be of opposition, and so is the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, where we have Mr. Bajatovic, with all due respect, with whom I had good co-operation, but he is now coming from the ruling coalition. The head of the Security Control Committee is also from the ruling coalition, Mrs. Jadranka from the SNS. So, it wasn't enough for you to introduce Mr. Vukic, to a small door, to all the important security-related functions, but to the opposition, by a kind of act of parliamentary violence, you took over these committees. We can't agree on that. Since the citizens have given us confidence, they have trusted you as future authorities to carry out the changes, although Professor Micunovic says well – they do not have to be better, but can be worse. They trusted us as the opposition, as well as you, to try together to make this parliament worthy of the citizens who voted for it. Therefore, I hope you will respect these amendments and prevent the concentration of power in the hands of a man. If we don't, we'll face it hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u436	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u437	Dear President, dear colleagues, I am reporting for the replica since my fellow MP called me by name, and there are many things to be said about understanding and understanding the concept of civil and democratic control, and I would say in one broad sense the understanding of democracy that you have shown us in these 12 years, in which way you understand it and how you understand it. This has indeed left serious consequences for the democratic arrangement and for Serbia's system, which we are trying to introduce some of the provisions that are in cohesion with the Constitution, that in some ways we can at least correct a little bit, and you don't even understand it, so I'm going to read now for the public that in practice it seemed like a solution that you're so boasting with the chief of staff. In practice, the Council, I wrote that because I was dealing with it, that you don't think I'm quoting, has functioned through the Office for the Security and Protection of Public Data, which has done administrative work, instead of being and becoming its body for protection and control, gentlemen, while the Bureau has worked to implement Council decisions and deal with executive affairs instead of administrative affairs. So the Council is not an authority of the state administration in the fullest sense of that meaning. As a result, the Office for Security and Protection of Secret Information could not achieve its function, as government agencies cannot establish such a character to carry out such tasks for non-governmental authorities. Since you're all extraordinary lawyers, and I'm not a lawyer, but I've consulted, you should at least know so much, which is why the Bureau was deliberately or accidentally given a larger executive function than the one he should actually have. What exactly was going on in practice? It happened that instead of meeting the chiefs of the service in the said office or on the council itself, it was this democracy in practice, they met at the Bureau where someone could self-organize and manage the work of the service, even without the president's knowledge, although in this case it was not the case, but it could have been the other members of the Council. This solution is legally justified, it provides legality in the work and coordination of service work. If you didn't understand that, then you didn't understand the concept of civil and democratic control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u438	Thank you. People's MP Dragan Sutanovac came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u439	Thank you. Given that I was personally a member of the National Security Council, it seems to me that I have enough right to clarify the position of the Democratic Party, and I believe in the good part of the opposition. I would have full understanding, because five years ago, when the Council was formed, the opposition led by Tomislav Nikolic was against the formation of the National Security Council, and Mr Dacic said the council was anti-constitutional. Of course, one thing you talk about when you're in opposition, another thing you do when you're in power and that's something political practice has shown in the past, but it's a fact. What's important to say is that this advice as such has had extremely good results and it's not true that they were greater powers of the Bureau than the Council, far from the facts, as it is not true that this solution is fundamentally different. This solution offered today is almost identical, with the obvious difference that the President of the Republic does not have either a man of expertise or a man of confidence who could serve as Secretary of the National Security Council from the position of the chief of staff, i.e. a new post of secretary is opening and practically increasing bureaucracy. What does the secretary mean and how important he is, and is it possible to unite a member of the Council and a secretary in a single image? That would seem about as if the speaker of the assembly were at the same time the secretary of the assembly. It doesn't make any sense, and I think it's a bad solution, and I think, regardless of all the criticisms that occur here, simply, the logic of business is not allowed in this way to form state authorities and instead of running a policy of security and defence and that jobs, formations, etc. are systematized against this policy. We have a situation where, compared to human resources, we systematicize a position in the National Security Council. It's something that doesn't work. Anyone who ran a ministry, a company, a company, a company, etc. knows that first you set up a system that needs to work, and then you fill that system with people if you have them within your system. If you don't, then you hire new people, etc. It is now obvious that, in terms of needs, I have to say, I don't know if one man or one party, we are changing the law to fully respect these needs and to make one complete vertical of both the executive authorities and the authorities in the Serbian Parliament, which can be seen through the board and the commission that controls this council. I think it's a very bad solution. I don't think that solution anywhere in the world, even in Serbia will be accepted in the way it is imagined. On behalf of the Democratic Party, I warn that there is no logic. On the other hand, as someone who's been head of the Department of Defense for five years, I urge you not to forget that it's a very serious job. The defence ministry as one large-scale ministry, the most complex ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia along with the interior ministry, requires that you do so 32 hours a day. If tomorrow someone who is the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Home Affairs or the Minister of Justice is also the Secretary of the National Security Council, it says there is an urgency that this job simply does not work on him 100% with its capacity and that is a very bad signal. I don't think he's going to improve the system from which a man would be Secretary of the National Security Council. Otherwise, the National Security Council is a serious body. Thanks to the Council and the Bureau, many of the activities that had our security services and the police were carried out in the best possible way. Thanks to this advice, we have received a very large number of commendations from the international community in the fight against organised crime, above all, to the international, the most severe organised crime, and I think that the advice as such should survive, by thinking that the way in which it is now planned to manage it actually shows that it should protect the interests of those people who see this advice roughly as a possibility that they are politically profiting. I'll remind you, the Secretary of the Council was head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic. Neither the President of the Republic nor he profited politically. On the contrary, today they have a lot of problems precisely because they have fought organised crime in a way that has not been seen for many years in Serbia. So it's not a place where anyone should have an exhibition, it's a place where professionals should do their job in the best possible way. I deeply believe that there is still enough awareness that the amendment proposed should be adopted or left with the law as it was or to adopt changes that will make it impossible for someone to be a member of the Council and at the same time the secretary of defence or justice, at the same time, etc., because it is indeed an extremely high concentration of power in one man. If we had an anti-monopoly law that would concern the position in society, the position in politics, I'm sure he wouldn't allow such a thing, I'm sure he would dispute that possibility, and therefore without even a little bile and anxiety, I simply advise that it is not working, and I don't think it's going to be good for the state and for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u440	Thank you. The people's messenger, Alexander Jerkov, appeared in the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u441	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the LSV parliamentary group will not support this amendment, given that what you will do in this assembly within the next hour is in fact that you will amend the law so that Alexander Vukic could be Secretary of the National Security Council. Anyone who makes laws according to the measure of the political party quickly realized that this practice is not good, that it can only go to him alone. I think this is the time when we should look back, when it comes to this amendment, what are the main disputes in this assembly today, what are the main disputes in this assembly for a few days? First of all, we had three stumbling blocks today. One is the one that changes the law so that Alexander Vukic could be the secretary of the council. The second was that the government had completely disauthorised itself from the authority to replace civil servants and thus carried out a purely political rematch. The third was once again a complete wonder of the government's competence over the work of public authorities holders, including regulatory bodies, agencies, professional associations, etc. Although we had the opportunity to learn about democracy and the rights of opposition MPs in the previous days, we see that there is nothing. Everything that happened in this assembly in the last two, three days has denied exactly what was said in this assembly when you were adopted, Mr. Stefanovic, when you were elected president. The same dispute arose with committees in the Serbian Assembly of Four Control Committees in this assembly exist in all four of them are representatives of the ruling coalition. These are the Committee on Defence, Home Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunities and the Security Control Committee. I don't think it should be said how dangerous it is that one man, whoever it is, who will be in the executive power, who apparently has political authority as president of one party and who will be minister of the army, will at the same time control the security services. Unfortunately, this continues the famous Serbian tradition of one of the predecessors of Mr. Vukic, also called Aleksandar, but his last name was Rankovic. It is another Alexander Rankovic Leka, who also believed that police control, especially the secret police, is one of the primary and most important authorities, so that Mr. Vukic Lek can start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u442	Please, when you speak of the MPs of the people, take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, and do not express yourself in a manner that can be interpreted as offensive. I beg the People's MPs for peace in the O.R. Are there others reported for word according to this amendment? No, there isn't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u443	Of course, my proposal for an amendment goes in the same direction as the predecessors from the DS who spoke. The point is that really without personalization, any solutions that have not been made we do not want to discuss who and how they will perform a function that has not yet started. We don't mind, the amendment is moving in that direction, that the President of the Republic himself chooses the person who will do the duty spoken of here. What needs to be brought into line with the explanation that you gave us, as regards civilian control and the rest, is indeed a dangerous blow to the government, i.e. Governments in this matter and a vague intertwination of ingenuity and things that will undoubtedly happen at that time. That's why we think it was much better for this person to define it more precisely and say that it would be outside the executive authority or that it was in some way clearly determined that it was a member of the Security Council, which would allow, let's say, the interior minister could also be the secretary of the Bureau. I don't see why the Secretary of Defense can do the job and not the Minister of the Interior. I don't understand the criteria. The criteria will be determined by whoever chooses, in this case by the President of the Republic. No one wants to take that away from him. I repeat, our intervention concerns the danger of incurring an executive authority in one place that serves coordination and better function of the service. You described this place yourself in, I'd say, a very technical way. In case it is ignored, too, which I have no doubt, in the event that all of this is refused, which I have no doubt at all, we should really ask ourselves about the purpose of the integrity of such an installation and the possibility of truly responsible, difficult functions being performed at the same time from the interests of the Serbian state and its security. These are things that require more than one man and require not only coordination, but maximum commitment to all jobs. I understand that there are people in the regime who want to prove that they are better at everything than the predecessors who want to prove that they know best and know best how to do everything from the local community, the media, the defenses, the secret services, but I remind you that this is not what you promised the citizens and it is not what the citizens of Serbia expect of you. Our criticism is completely in place, the constructive one. Our appeal is indeed a constructive appeal, accepting Mr. Vukic's hand from yesterday, not getting absolutely into our political backgrounds about all of this. We are really trying to show you that a better regulation would be made and that it would be better for the citizens of Serbia. No more than that. Please, don't just come back to the head of your parliamentary group again, to teach them how to personally disturb someone. That's absolutely not true. There's no one here to talk about in person. You won't hear a single name from the Democratic Party. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, if you can intervene, if you don't, I'll take your calm view as a reflection of your approval. What is certain is that we will not get far, as I have already said, if this is how the new regime in Serbia tries to establish things in several fields. I understand that the regimeal approach in Serbia means goats that store cabbage in all fields, but you also make sure that you do not have people on this side who will be afraid to expose and indicate it everywhere and in every place and that they adequately respond to your incompetence, abuse and absolute privatisation of state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u444	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) A group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party group submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint July 26, 2012 at 16.15 p.m. as Voting Day on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. By that moment, I'm setting a 30-minute break. I remind you that immediately after the vote, he will continue with the special session for the government's election. Before that, we will determine a break that will be sufficient to carry out all technical and administrative preparations for the apparition of this law that we adopt. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Before we move to decision-making on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MINISTRATIVES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on ministries to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and I declare: 134 MPs voted in favour, 58 MPs were against, no abstentions, 18 MPs were not voted out by a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. National MP Srdjan Shajin, 24 July 2012, withdrew the amendment in writing to Article 10. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 45 MPs voted against 115 MPs, two abstentions were held, 49 MPs were not voted by a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 47 MPs voted against, 122 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, no 45 MPs voted out of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 35 MPs voted against 119 people's MPs, no abstentions, no 60 MPs voted out of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and I declare: 31 MPs voted for, against 130 MPs, with no abstention, no 58 MPs voted out of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted to the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 42 MPs voted against, 125 MPs were against, one MP was abstention, 51 MPs were not voted out of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 44 MPs voted in favour, 130 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, 46 MPs were not voted out of a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Aleksandar Jugovic and Aleksandar Jotric. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 39 MPs voted in favour, 126 MPs were against, one MP was abstention, 55 MPs were not voted by a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 45 MPs voted in favour, 129 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, 47 MPs were not voted by a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 185 MPs voted against two, with no abstention, had not voted 34, out of a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djorđe Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 50 MPs voted against 129, abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 47 MPs voted against 138, with no abstention, no 34 votes, of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 14 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 39 MPs voted against 136, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Delevic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 53 MPs voted against 114, abstentioned two, did not vote 50, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 177 MPs voted against, and there were no abstentions, they did not vote 42, of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Alexander Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new Article 8. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 46 MPs voted against 139, and there were no abstentions, 34 were not voted, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djorđe Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 47 MPs voted against 140, with no abstention, did not vote 32, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 41 MPs voted in favour, against 141 abstentions, did not vote 37, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 38 MPs voted against 135, no abstentions, no 46, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Djorđe Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 45 MPs voted against, 138 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, there were no 36 MPs, of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: five MPs voted against, nine MPs were against, one was abstention, 203 MPs did not vote, of a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 32 MPs voted against 135 MPs, no abstentions, no 51 MPs voted, of a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papauga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 10th and 10th. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 43 MPs voted against 139 MPs, no abstentions, no 35 MPs, of a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 14 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 42 MPs voted against, there were 136 MPs, there were no abstentions, there were no 39 MPs, of a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 40 MPs voted against, 134 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, there were no 43 MPs, of a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 36 MPs voted against, 136 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, there were no 45 MPs, of a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: nine MPs voted against, 72 MPs were against, one was abstention, 134 MPs did not vote, of a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papauga and Djordje Stojsic put together the title above Articles 12th and 12th. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 43 MPs voted against 137 MPs, no abstentions, no 36 MPs voted, of a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 142 MPs voted against, four MPs, no abstentions, no vote by 70 MPs, of a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papauga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 41 MPs voted against, 140 MPs were against, there were no abstentions, no 35 MPs voted, of a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 39 MPs voted against 137 MPs, no abstentions, no vote of 40 MPs, of a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 36 MPs voted against 136 people's MPs, no abstentions, no 44 MPs voted, of the total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Markovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: 137 MPs voted against one of the people's MPs, with no abstention, did not vote 78 MPs, of the total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreshi, Aleksandra Jerkova, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 16 and 16. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 39 MPs voted in favour, against 131 MPs, with no abstention, no 45 MPs, of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 31 MPs voted in favour against 134 MPs, no abstentions, no vote by 49 MPs, of the total of 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Oliver Dulic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 29 MPs voted in favour, against 137 MPs, with no abstention, no 48 MPs, of the total of 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 35 MPs voted against 134 MPs, with no abstention, no 47 MPs, of the total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted an amendment adding a new title and a new member of 19a. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 37 MPs voted against 133 people's MPs, no abstentions, no 46 MPs voted, of the total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 32 MPs voted in favour against 134 MPs, no abstentions, no 51 MPs voted, of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Samardzic submitted an amendment adding a new member of 19a. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 10 MPs voted against 137 MPs, with no abstention, no vote by 70 MPs, of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 45 MPs voted against 133 people's MPs, no abstentions, no 41 MPs voted, of the 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 14 MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 40 MPs voted against 133 people's MPs, no abstentions, no 46 MPs, of the 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 36 MPs voted in favour, against 131 MPs, with no abstention, no 53 MPs, of the 220 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 11 MPs voted against 134 MPs, with no abstention, did not vote 75 MPs, out of the 220 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 25 MPs voted against 133 MPs, with no abstention, no 62 MPs, of the 220 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Aleksandar Jugovic and Aleksandar Jotric. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 15 MPs voted in favour, against 131 MPs, with no abstention, no 74 MPs, of the total of 220 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 137 MPs voted against 22 MPs, 1 MP was abstentioned, 60 MPs were not voted, of the 220 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 32 MPs voted in favour, against 126 MPs, with no abstention, no vote of 60 MPs, of a total of 218 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 38 MPs voted against 130 people's MPs, no abstentions, no 50 MPs voted, of a total of 218 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. National MP Predrag Markovic withdrew the amendment during a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 11 MPs voted against 135 MPs, with no abstention, did not vote 73 MPs, of the total of 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Aleksandar Jugovic and Aleksandar Jotric. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 12 MPs voted against 133 MPs, with no abstention, did not vote 73 MPs, of the total of 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalić and Radojko Obradović, MP Srdjan Mikovic, MP Gordana Komic, MP Slobodan Homen and a group of 14 MPs from the LDP group. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 61 MPs voted against 124 MPs, with no abstention, no 34 MPs, of the 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 41. The bill, scheduled for the law to enter into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are reasonable reasons to do so when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: 135 MPs voted against 19 MPs, one abstention MP, not 62 MPs, of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on ministries in general. I conclude the vote and declare that 137 MPs, against 69 MPs, were not abstentioned, were not voted by 11 MPs, of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on ministries. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Government Laws. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the Government Act. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 138 MPs voted against, 53 against, no abstentions, 21 MPs did not vote, of a total of 212. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 44 MPs voted against 131, with no abstention, no 37, of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 50 MPs voted against 136, with no abstention, no vote of 26, of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 41 MPs voted against 132 with no abstention, no 39 votes, of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 50 MPs voted against 130, with no abstentions, did not vote 33, out of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 40 MPs voted against 134 with no abstention, no vote of 40, of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment with the correction was filed by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 49 MPs voted against 137, there were no abstentions, there were no 28 votes, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Borko Stefanovic in the same text. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 42 MPs voted against 133, with no abstention, no 39 votes, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Government Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: 139 MPs voted against 56, with no abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law supplementing the Government Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the law on the basis of the regulation of the service to the security of the Republic of Serbia as the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the basis of the regulation of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 137 MPs voted against 55, with no abstention, no 22, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is based on Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on (Article 163(4)). Rules of Procedure. I also remind you that a group of 45 MPs from the SNS parliamentary group, written on July 26th 2012, withdrew the amendment to article 1 with corrections. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 47 MPs voted against 137, and there were no abstentions, no 30 votes, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: 41 MPs voted against 134 with no abstention, no 39 votes, of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that 48, against 135, there were no abstentions, did not vote 30, out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that 46, against 135, were not abstentions, did not vote 32, out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 14 MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Security Control Committee has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 37 against 133, the abstentions were not taken, were not 43, out of a total of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 138 votes against 52, with no abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, at a session on 24 July 2012, at 21 hours and seven minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: 36 were voted against 111, with no abstention, no 63, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on 26 July 2012, at 14 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure regarding Rule 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: 33 against 94, the abstentions were not voted on by 82, out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Since we have scheduled a session on the election of members of the government immediately in the follow-up of this session, I am setting a 45-minute break to carry out the necessary administrative procedures, and we will continue at 18.15 hours. (The session is closed at 5:30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u446	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The second special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 26 July 2012 (The session began at 18.35 pm. The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 145 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 192 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend representatives of the diplomatic court and guests of the National Assembly, of course, as well as representatives of religious communities. Let me say hello to them this time. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to choose the government as soon as possible, to end the process of establishing the highest state bodies and bodies after the May elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, I found the following: The choice of government and the oath of president and members of the government. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister who, pursuant to Article 112 of Item 1(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, was submitted by the President of the Republic of Mr Tomislav Nikolic. You have received the consent of Mr. Ivica Dacic, a candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia of the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions were met for the candidate for Prime Minister of the National Assembly to present a programme of the Government and propose a composition of the Government, Article 127(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to open a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for government members, to determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers without portfolios in the Government on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister and to elect the Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister, to take an oath before the National Assembly. I now ask Mr. Ivica Dacic, candidate for Prime Minister, to present to the National Assembly a programme of government and propose its composition. The word has a candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Wait just one moment for the media representatives to release the hall. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic answered, but before him, Mr. Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u448	First, it is necessary to create conditions for work. You started the session when there were 20 and more reporters here and we haven't seen each other, neither have we, and neither have you. That was the first problem. Secondly, I was convinced the government didn't have a program, because she didn't even deliver it to us. It was common and it was our turn to have written exposés, which we can consider, to participate in the debate, to monitor the exhibitions. You deprived us of that. I know this speed, but I don't want to go into reasons. Has the Government Act already entered into force, the Ministry Act? Do we, by law, choose government? It was normal for you to share the written exposés of the Prime Minister's candidate, that we could study him, at least for how long and then to speak. All that remains is impressions from what the Prime Minister will tell us. I would suggest you take a break, share our exposés, and then we, or tomorrow or a few hours later, can talk about it. I know that in Serbia, I attended ten governments, and there was always something going on when it came to the government. I expected, since it was announced that everything would be done differently from what was previously done, that this would now be done "lege artis" to enjoy it, a team before others observe us. That's my suggestion, to postpone the session, share our exposés, and we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u449	As for your objections to media representatives, I would like to inform you that I wanted the entire Serbian public to have full insight into the work of this Parliament and to attend the full session in this way. Of course, after my opening address, before giving a word to the Prime Minister, journalists, as you have seen, have withdrawn from the center of the hall. As far as the exposé is concerned, it is now divided into all the MPs, i.e. it is shared with all the MPs. After the exposé of the prime minister, I will determine a break, on which you can read it in detail. The second, according to his injury to the Rules of Procedure, was Mr Stefanovic. Please specify only a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u450	I gave up that right, given that the head of the parliamentary group has already made the same remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u451	Mr. Jovanovic, by the book.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u452	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 19th position of the 5th Injury of the Rules of Procedure, which you have done, Mr. Stefanovic. You are required to take care of the order in this House. It's bad that you're holding such a significant session in such an irresponsible way. I don't think any serious work can be done by calling someone at 23.00 hours, and you did it the night before last, when at 23.00 hours you sent a call to the parliamentary groups for today's session. Now you've been sarcastic, not funnyly suggesting, since Mr. Dacic is talking to you, we're taking a break to study his exposés. Why, then, did you call upon the congregation, if the essence of this congregation is to unthink what the congregation should be? Earth's in crisis. There has never been less trust between us, in society as a whole, and at least in relation to institutions that should direct life in the country with their authority. In this way you just repeat the mistakes of your predecessors. The last midnight government lasted six months. It did no good to anyone, nor to those who made it, nor to those who depended on it. We have not found our happiness in the criticism of this government, which is by no means different from the first criticisms we have given to the new parliamentary majority. In this way, the responsible institution does not refer to those whose city depends decisively. I address you with respect and expect you to respect the 260,000 votes we represent here. We have nothing to look for in a half-hour break in Mr. Dacic's passed exposé. If he wanted a responsible debate, he was required as a mandater, and especially you as Parliament speaker, to allow us to prepare ourselves for it, not to bring it all down to intrigues and plots. It's humiliating, at least for us. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 19 of Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u453	If you insist, the National Assembly will declare your proposal on Voting Day. On what basis, Mr. Micunovic? Did you say "injury" to the Rules of Procedure? You have to tell me. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you my word, if it isn't, then I can't give it to you. Can you sign in, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u454	I think you incorrectly explained my objection. I wasn't against the media being there. On the contrary, I want all the media to be there. I protested against the crowd that you made and the whole wall came between you and us and it couldn't work. You didn't even hear me asking for a message. Therefore, do not interpret this as a reason – here, we are protesting against the media. On the contrary, we want media, but we want order. You could have started the session, let the media shoot, so when they get out, then we'll see each other and we'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u455	She answered for the word, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u456	With a simple list, Mr. President, distinguished guests, candidates for ministers, prime minister, list of Rules of Procedure, I look at my colleagues with whom I have chosen, voted or not, and I cannot believe that in 2012 and many years behind us parliamentary democracy and the multi-party system there are people who cannot stand with dignity the moment of the election of the new government. Never so far and never at any international or domestic event do you get a text that the speaker will read. Where did you see that? The mandate speaks, brings out its exposés, and then we get it in the text as read, we get a certain break to study, and then we talk about it. In which country you have lived, if I have shared this reality with you and many colleagues here, and whether it speaks of the unpreparedness that we continue to lead Serbia through tolerance ready, that from history and our literature we realize that politics is not happiness where happiness turns, but that politics is the result of good or bad rule, good or bad way of leading the state. Please accept the election results, accept the procedure which is respected to the point and that the way the session is scheduled, organised law-publishment, speaks of the urgency and willingness of this government not to waste any moment and to make up for lost time in some efforts to let the government last four years at any cost. If we don't change, you don't change. If we change – what have you changed? If we make a serious deal and make programs, you're slow. If we organize ourselves like we organized, you say - midnight sessions. Which is the scientific method of analogy, how long the government will last, if at any time, this or that time, established, started, started, voted. Please, Mr. Micunović, at least I know you as a man of dignity, have enough dignity to instruct all the young people behind you to wait calmly and nicely to hear the prime minister tell us what he has to say, to take a break, to talk about the exposé, and you said today that the government has a right at least for 100 days. We're not looking for 100 days tonight, we're looking for an elementary culture, for this government to present its exposés. Please do not make this act, which Serbia expects with much hope, something that does not serve anyone the honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u457	Please, just take care of the weather. Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Shine reported after his injury to the Rules of Procedure, followed by Mr. Marjan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u458	I really can't, if this is the right Rules of Procedure, find Article 19, Section 5, because in this Rules of Procedure, they only have two positions in this Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. I don't know what Mr. Jovanovic is calling for. There's probably a fifth position that doesn't say in this official document. The other thing is, if all MPs are independent and can think, they don't have to go for the opinion of the Crown where the man who ran it all sits now. I don't understand that MPs who are members of the government can't have an opinion... (President: I ask the MPs to allow the speaker to finish. )......................................................................................................... After reading the text or after an exposé has been heard. We believe in you, that you've done bad work and we believe you'll do bad things and comment. You simply read, you have your mandates. You don't have to go to Kronsk now, because the gentleman is no longer president of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u459	Mr. Marjan Risticevic. Please sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the second time I have advertised that there seem to be two Rules of Procedures in this assembly, one for us ordinary MPs and one for a gentleman, a respected senior colleague, Micunovic. I am advocating Article 103(4), which says - The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what these injuries are, with the power to speak for up to two minutes. So, twice, Mr. Micunovic advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that he himself hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, which I have already cited. I'm afraid this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about hurting and insulting MPs of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u461	Thank you. Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u462	I don't understand Mrs. Tabakovic's reaction to give a lecture... (President: Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. )......................................................................................................... Replica. The only problem was that we couldn't start working normally, because you opened the session before they came out of front of us dozens and dozens of reporters. That was an observation. The second question was, when are we going to get the exposés? That's all. It seems that here he has become manipulative to ask nothing, because it is immediately a flood of election campaigns, disqualifications, a problem of dignity, mine or anyone's, an insult, we don't know how to behave, etc. I leave it to the audiences, to you here and to all those who look, where there was such a scandalous remark, that we can't work until we've cleared up the ground and the photojournalists come out. The president is obliged to take care of the order, so we can work normally and that's all. That's what the flood came to, one big tirad of Mrs. Tabakovic about us, about the campaign, about dignity, about everything and everything. If you think every time someone calls in to a replica or something, that we should listen to so many circulations, then you extend the work, you complicate the work of the Assembly, not someone else. Fortunately, this happens in front of the public and everyone sees it well. So please, normally run the Assembly, do everything in normal order, we'll listen to the candidate, I guess we'll get a few minutes so we can discuss it, and that's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u463	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u464	The President or representative of the parliamentary group shall have the right to propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups than the time set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. I suggest that we extend the time of debate, because this is a very important topic and that it is much better to talk in a normal way than that through the debate that we have already heard and seen, it will certainly not be the way it has to be, with everything that is necessary to say in order to come out of this assembly as responsible politicians who take care of this country. So I suggest you increase the debate by five hours to ten. It has always been proposed by the opposition and this proposal has nothing to do with the new parliamentary majority formed nearly a month ago. This is now a question of the majority's willingness to participate in dialogue in one normal way. Come in, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u465	I agree to put your motion to the vote. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u466	I asked for a reply to the direct mention of the esteemed gentleman, Professor. Dragoljub Micunovic, as we call him, because, not a lecture, not a tirad, but an explanation of, allegedly, the lack of exposure in the usual way and I want to say the following. Mr Stefanovic, president of the assembly today has not denied a single MP the right to replication. We were in no hurry, no debate was denied on any agenda. We worked very nicely in one spirit of tolerance and cooperation. In this spirit, I ask that we continue to work on the gallery where we usually receive and welcome our guests to this evening’s special commitment. I am convinced that the conduct of my colleagues, myself personally and many people sitting here obliges you, because many and personal relations with you, your foreigner and the MP group have tasked you to return them in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u467	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, if I understand your proposal correctly, you have suggested that time be doubled. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal that the time foreseen for the debate be doubled. I ask the Members of Parliament to make this proposal known. I conclude the vote and declare: 67 MPs have been declared, there have been 137, there have been no abstentions, there have been 14 MPs from a total of 218 MPs, and I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. There's a word for candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, your Excellency, the representatives of the Diplomatic Court, the respected citizens of Serbia, I assume that everyone expects me to be the prime minister for the composition of the new government of the Republic of Serbia to be broadly and loaded with general places. The time in which we live imposes a different approach. I hope we will agree in the conclusion that Serbia survives one of the most difficult periods in its history. I will not, I believe, overestimate the weight and complexity of our national and national problems if we mark these past decades as the historic crisis of the Serbian people. From the true and critical insight of our political, economic and cultural reality, especially the invisible foreign policy position of Serbia in the modern world and the unresolved Kosovo problem, it depends on the creation of a realistic and realistic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I present today in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in front of all Serbia. Changes in social order have not yielded the expected results. Serbia remains a country of failed expectations and missed opportunities. Major mistakes have been made, some and criminal nature in privatising social property. The country's huge economic potential has been ruined. We have entered into general poverty and the fall of life, economic, cultural and civilizational standards of Serbian society. Contrary to the usual, self-infatuation of political leaders in their historic role, for the fate and future of the people of Serbia, the fundamental question is whether we know where we are going, what Serbia is today and what it is we want and what a Serbian dream we want to dream about and who our allies are on that path. All these issues concern not only political authorities or opposition in Serbia, the whole Serbian society. Instead of deobs, dissents and villages, we need the unification of all the best Serbia has. Every new government has talked about the pillars of its new policy, and we have all forgotten the foundations of Serbia together. That is why the main objective of me as prime minister and government of the Republic of Serbia will be to strengthen Serbia's foundation. The goal will be to gather and unite the most important people and ideas in Serbia's interest. Our faith in a better and more peaceful tomorrow should be based on a realistic assessment of our strength and respect for the objective conditions in which we should solve difficult national and state problems and build a legal and social state. We have every reason to give up the demagogue optimism based on politics – we have no alternative. In our social consciousness, national and social apathy needs to be overcome, people's trust in Serbia, strong and respected. Our life is very difficult in Serbia. Our backlog is great, but we are a people who have the strength for true rebirth. Political actors in Serbia are mostly concerned with the past, with an emphasis on ideological evaluation of certain events, processes and personalities, and the main consequence has been shared. From the position of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I want to work on the future of our country and our people. I don't want to, and I don't want to deal with divisions, whether they're current, whether they're from the '90s, or break-ups at a time of communism, or a division of partisans and Chetniks. I'm not interested in dinastic divisions, or in dividing natives and immigrants into civil or national currents, or in dividing them based on nationality and religious definition. I want to build an integrated vision of Serbia's future, together with citizens and their communities, organisations, institutions and professional public, and to step forward to this future. The government of the Republic of Serbia will be a government for the future, not a government facing the past. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the programme of each government in democratic societies follows from election programmes of those political groups that have received confidence in the elections. We are aware of the weights in which the Republic of Serbia is in the definition of implementing comprehensive social reforms, which are a prerequisite for further development and for the progress of our country, as well as the need to achieve a broad political consensus. After the appointment of a mandate to form a new government by the President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, the SNS, SPS, PUPS and JS, as well as the election lists of the RS, reached an agreement on the common political goals and the formation of the assembly majority, which was later joined by the SDPS by Rasim Ljajic and SDA Sulejman Ugljanin. In accordance with the parliamentary procedure, I will present the framework for the work of the future government, which is at the same time a list of tasks, objectives and obligations of our future government. Our biggest and most difficult problem facing Serbia is the demographic issue, halting biological decline, extinction of the nation and creating conditions for the rise of the people's life force. Rehabilitation of the population can be the result of only coordinated activities in the creation of all preconditions to encourage an increase in the birth rate. From stimulating the birth of more children in families, through helping married couples who need out-of-body fertilization, greater help for pregnant women and maternity mothers, greater social care for children, tax cuts, and restrictions on trade margins for baby equipment. Information that 40,000 babies are born in Serbia every year less than the number of deaths should be the last warning to introduce emergency measures in this area. If this trend continues, in two to three centuries Serbia will remain empty. Of the 4,706 settlements in Serbia, in 1.140, to repeat, 24.2% of the total number of settlements in Serbia, no child was born in 2010, in a quarter of the settlement in Serbia. Of the 165 municipalities in Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, only eight recorded positive natural growth, in Grocko, Zvezda, Novi Sad, Sjenica, Novi Pazar, Tutin, Bujanovac and Presevo. We've lost a large population in wars, and now we're inexorably moving towards self-destruction. It's time for this trend to stop. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia will exit urgently, not with strategy and major debates, but with concrete measures to stop Serbia's biological disappearance. The difficult economic and social situation is also one of our most difficult and major problems. Economic recovery and rebirth are the national priority of the time we live in. All other key objectives of this government, such as Serbia's European future, resolving Kosovo issues, regional co-operation, fighting crime and corruption, education, health care and others, will depend on whether we are able to ensure our country's economic survival. That is why today we call for the conclusion of a social agreement between the government, employees and employers. The subject of economic consensus should be economic policy, which will be developmental and which will aim to raise the standard of living of poor Serbian citizens. We in Serbia today have two related problems. One in total poverty of society and a difficult situation in which both the economy and the citizens are. Another major problem is the huge social separation of the largest number of poor and 1% of the privileged and wealthy, which stand out from the rest of society, which, by their arrogance and greed, can be branded as new aristocracy. Such a state of huge social differences undermines stability, both state and society. Political power must not serve as an instrument in the hands of powerful and wealthy, but political power in Serbia, in this case I am talking about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must be an instrument in the hands of the people to achieve a fairer distribution of social wealth. This situation is also a blow to Serbia's constitutional order, as Serbia is defined as a state of social justice according to its constitution. Every nation has its own soul. Serbia's soul is equality, and equality is not egalitarianism, nor mercy, but solidarity. That is why the economic policy, which I will represent as prime minister, will not call for the austerity and tightening of citizens' belts, whose standard of living in the previous period has experienced a drastic fall. This government, this assembly and all other parts of the state government, including the financial sector, must share the fate of their people, primarily in social and economic terms. It cannot be called on to freeze or reduce wages and pensions, in which it increases its wages too high anyway and does not reduce any privileges it has as bearers of political or economic power. The role of the state in this period must be how the most painless people survive the economic crisis. I see the role of the state as a need to help citizens and businesses and all others in need. For all the structures of society, which I will call for conversation and agreement, I will only have two questions. First, what can the state do to help you? Second, what can you do for the nation and the people? Serbia is in a very difficult economic and social situation today. The average net salary has fallen to about 340 euros, in which even Albania has passed us. The unemployment rate has already gone well over 20%. Today, Serbia may be the only country in Europe that has about the same number of pensioners and those who are working. The structure of the employees is very unfavourable. All half a million people participate in creating a new value, in real production. The rest is in branches dealing with redistribution, such as trade and finance, and upgrades, such as state administration, education, etc. As Prime Minister, I will form a council on economic recovery, which will enable and gather the most capable, most professional and most successful Serbia has in the area of economy and finance. We will do everything we can to stop the fall of the national economy, to ensure its recovery and strengthening. The highest price of capital, the most unstable course, the highest unemployment rate, the minimum average salary, insufficient incentives for exporters, the least subsidies in agriculture and the region reduce the competitiveness of our company and the credibility of Serbia daily. Therefore, this government will be committed to creating a business environment, which will provide our businesses with similar conditions, if not better conditions for working than countries in our environment. I don't compare Serbia with the most developed countries, I'm talking about countries in the immediate environment. Here, above all, I mean a stable national currency, a more favourable price of capital, state subsidies, a more efficient administrative procedure, a boost to exporters and subsidies to agriculture. In one word, a fair and partner relationship with the economy, and starting with the awareness that businesses in Serbia, whether their owners are domestic or foreign, are also a source for budget filling, stability and the financial sector in general and bearer of the living standard of workers. I ask the businessmen to do three things: 1) not to fire workers and to pay them regularly; 2) to pay taxes and work under the law; 3) to invest in Serbia and not to raise capital outside Serbia. Serbia should have a clear economic development strategy based on what Serbia has and what is our comparative advantage. These are, above all, agriculture and food industries, energy and infrastructure. These are the branches to start a new investment cycle. One of the biggest economists, John Major Kanes, at the beginning of the great depression, said that the economic machine is working, but that we have a problem with its ignition. In times of crisis, governments and the financial sector play a decisive role in launching a national economic machine. The Serbian government will seek to launch major investment projects in agriculture, energy and infrastructure. An example of this year's drought shows that the chance of large investment works in agriculture has been missed through irrigation. Not only does it reduce the potential of agricultural production in normal conditions but it also causes direct damage to the drought in just one year, which is worth more than the total investment we have missed over the last few years. This year's drought damage is estimated at billions of euros. The level of responsibility in Serbia compared to the total social product is much lower than in other European countries. But our problem is not in the degree of duty, our problem is in a small social product that continues to stagnate or fall. Only by increasing the social product can we reduce the percentage of duty. A particular problem is an unfavourable structure of a social product where it is a high percentage of financial and other services, and a relatively small percentage of the real sector's participation, so that today we are again facing the challenges of re-industrisation that must ensure optimal restructuring of our economy. In addition to the state, the financial sector plays a decisive role in launching a new investment development cycle. Our situation is a similar analysis described by Nobel laureate Krugman. We have a large number of people who don't work or work enough. We have capacities that aren't employed, natural resources that haven't been exploited, and we have frightened investors and the financial sector that aren't enough in the function of economic development. My criticism of the financial sector that upset the public was just a message that it must be more in the function of reviving the economy. It's also in the interest of the financial sector itself. On the one hand, we are constantly listening to claims that our financial sector is stable, and in the meantime our economy is collapsing and collapsing. There is no stable financial sector if the economy is in trouble, because it is only a mirror of our economy. Evidence of this is also the problem that already arises in individual banks, as well as a rate of over 25% of uncharging credits from the economy. The global economic crisis was also created when the financial sector thought itself a purpose rather than a service of the real economy. The successful work of banks and regular budget filling are targets and can only be achieved on the basis of a successful economy and curbing the grey economy. Attracting foreign investment is also one of the government's most important priorities and a way to revive our economy. The dilemma of development or saving is a false question. Serbia needs both. In addition, it is a topic and formula that is now being discussed and discussed in the EU as well. The solution is to reduce irrational consumption and increase investment consumption in order to boost growth and increase employment. We must save on bureaucratic and unnecessary costs so that we can invest more in development. The attempt to break the principle of savings into wide layers of the impoverished population is not only socially unfair, it is economically unfounded, because it directly affects the fall in purchasing power and has a return effect on the payable demand and thus the inability to sell finished products. Even Henry Ford's father of the modern industry realized that he had to pay his employees a salary that would allow them to buy his cars, and that his cars had to have a price that would fit his workers' salaries. When this balance is broken and people are left without decent wages, then every production loses its purpose and perspective. There's been a drastic decline in national currency lately. The national currency experienced a 53% drop from September 2008. Salaries and pensions have been depreciated, rates of standard and other loans have been increased by citizens, and the balances of many businesses have been permanently damaged. It's absurd that it's a period in which foreign reserves are increased multiplely. The state just can't close its eyes first. The failure to defend the national currency experienced by the National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a direct consequence had an impoverishment to the citizens of Serbia and our economy. Serbia therefore needs a plan for a stable national currency. The plan must be the result of a co-ordinated and common government policy, monetary authorities and businesses. More efficient use of monetary policy instruments, more actively attracting foreign investment, preventing outflows of grey channels, working with our diaspora, destimulating unnecessary imports and a serious export strategy are only the most important elements of this plan. The experiences of some developed countries tell us that today, more than ever, it is necessary to revitalise and strengthen the partner relationship between the state and the banks. Each economy needs well-capitalised and liquid banks that will allow the flow of capital into the system and start a new investment cycle. Banks need more than ever a stable and reliable environment that must be guaranteed by the state. On these premises, I call on banks to remain responsible for our economic system and to provide adequate support to businesses and citizens at these difficult times. Emergency measures are needed to reduce the budget deficit. The programme will be adopted by the end of September after seeing the real situation in the budget, comprehensive analysis and serious consultations with businesses, trade unions and the professional public. On the one hand, the measures must be radical in the direction of reducing bureaucracy and eliminating the costs of the state. On the other hand, the socially responsible for protecting the most endangered layers of the population. The Serbian government will continue talks with the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial institutions and organisations to achieve macroeconomic stability and sustainable economic development. A law on public procurement will be passed very quickly that will increase the transparency of the process, reduce corruption and allow the state's expenditure to be reduced. There will be no freezing of wages and pensions, their growth in the first year must be consistent with the real possibilities of the budget, while respecting the principle that pension growth should monitor public sector wage growth. All pensioners who have less than 15,000 a month will be paid 13 pensions in four equal wars. Conditions will be created for the formation of the Development Bank, in support of businesses and developmental national projects. Dear Members of the European Parliament as an old European people in the process of uniting Europe and meeting the conditions for EU accession, we will invest our most valuable traditions of freedom, democratic spirit and respect for European values. Fulfilling Serbia's EU accession requirements should be seen as an action for our country's general civilization progress. Our goal is to accelerate the process of European integration with maximum efforts to get a date for starting negotiations with the EU. This government will implement the necessary system measures and meet the criteria set by the Copenhagen European Council and the Stabilisation and Association Process. The main elements of the reform are the establishment of a functioning market economy, achieving macroeconomic stability, strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and organised crime. The state needs to be arranged, and that only seems to be the law. Serbia will not recognise Kosovo's independence. The Serbian government wants to normalise the lives of all citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Everything agreed in the technical dialogue with Pristina needs to be implemented and dialogue continued at the political level with the participation of top state officials. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved by peaceful means, by improving dialogue, with respect for democratic solutions. In this regard, we will accept the results of the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which the previous government has achieved in all the talks so far. We want greater responsibility in dialogue with the European Union and Pristina and raising and accountability to a higher level. This will require intensive talks during a certain period of time, but we are ready to start these talks immediately, without preconditions, with respect for the Serbian Constitution. The security of the Serbs at KiM must be secured. Serbian, historical and cultural heritage, churches and monasteries must be particularly protected and secured. Serbia's government must especially work to boost the economy in Serbian environments, but also to return Serb exiles to its hearths. Serbia must lead its foreign policy on realistic and pragmatic assumptions. We will co-operate with all countries of the world, in Serbia's interest, and with all European countries, America, Russia, China and all other factors that shape international policies based on the preservation of national identity and dignity. We are ready to co-operate with every country and nation in preserving peace, speeding up progress, strengthening democracy and respecting common human values. Serbia wants to be a factor of peace and stability in the region, supporting the European perspective of the entire region. We advocate security, stability and good relations in the Western Balkans. All misunderstandings, all open issues must be resolved in a peaceful manner and in a spirit of co-operation. If they say the word Balkans means blood and honey, enough blood, it is time for the Balkan peoples to taste honey. Serbia provides an arm of reconciliation, everyone. Let's not deal with the past anymore. We're dealing with the future. We want good relations with mutual respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of each country. At the same time, the government will seek full respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement and develop the strongest political, economic and cultural relations and co-operation with Republika Srpska. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture can make a significant contribution to overall economic growth within the short term, provided that agricultural policy measures define sustainable and even development. We plan to significantly increase the agrarian budget and, in the short run, to establish an agrarian policy, which will be predictable in the long run, so that farmers can plan their production in the long run. The measures of agrarian policy will, above all, affect the competitiveness of our businesses, our producers and a special package of measures will be linked to encouraging investment in this area. We will separate economically from social measures, and we will pay particular attention to rural development in synergism with local self-government and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina in order to achieve a balanced regional development. We will launch a reform of the Stock Reserve Directorate to develop new instruments to stabilise the food market. Reforming the advisory service and encouraging agricultural holdings to join, build a system of national laboratories and strengthen the capacity of institutions, will allow technological progress and strengthen the competitiveness of our farmers. We intend to quickly, in the best way, use the energy of people, the sun, water and wind for high production of food and energy. A strategy for the development of agriculture, such as a transfer that will further develop agriculture and the village, will be prepared very quickly. We will apply the latest achievements of science to end the shift of birth and not birth years. We will invest more money in irrigation systems, farmers will get favourable loans to make this drought the last one, not the fifth one in the last ten years. We want Serbia to be a major food exporter, to become the garden of Europe. The process of Serbia's accession to the European Union, especially during the pre-accession period, will cause significant problems for this sector, but it is the fact that after that in the agriculture sector will profit the most from joining the European Union. One of the most significant problems is the fact that in the pre-accession period Serbia opens its borders for products from the European Union and must adapt to very demanding standards if it wants to export to the European Union market. Under the current agreement, the liberalisation process with the European Union will end in 2014 when the average customs duty will be 2.49% and we will be the only country that, in the EU accession process, has been exposed to strong competition without the possibility of using funds to boost the competitiveness of our agriculture. Such an agreement on liberalisation was signed with a projection that Serbia will become a relatively quick EU member. It was indicative of 2015 at the time. To avoid the negative consequences of Serbian agrarian, a new dialogue with the European Commission must be opened and a solution to these problems must be found. Also, we'll do everything we can to quickly get a national accreditation for using IPA funds, which can significantly help in the rural development. Serbia's energy policy priorities will be raising Serbia's energy security. By raising energy efficiency and investing through the opening of new minefields, construction of hydro and thermal capacity, investing in renewable energy sources, defining clear price policy and price parity. Then, the development and rise of municipal energy through the production of heat and electricity in heat and the gradual change of harmful energy, such as mules and coal, renewable energy sources, were primarily mass, as well as gas. The goal will be to develop Serbia as a transit route and a storage facility for energy and energy, invest in a second-way gas flow, invest in electricity connections with neighbours to complete and build new underground gas storage facilities. The fourth priority will be to establish and develop energy and energy markets according to EU standards, electricity, gas and oil derivatives and liquid oil gas. During the mandate of this government of the Republic of Serbia, we expect the end of the South Stream pipeline through Serbia, 411km long, worth 1.9 billion euros. The construction of South Stream in Russia is expected to begin in December of this year. The Serbian government will not privatise the EPS Public Enterprise, and will retain majority ownership in other strategically important public enterprises, which have a monopoly position on the market, such as Zeljeznica, PTT, airport, etc. At the same time, a reform of public enterprises will be carried out in order to make business more efficient and improve the quality and competitiveness of their services. The management of public enterprises will be professionalised, and the government will take over the control role. We will take special care of our country's natural resources and provide greater investment in the energy and mining sectors, as well as transport and telecommunications infrastructure. The establishment of a rule of law and the rule of law is the basis for the creation of individual legal certainty and society as it promotes economic growth, investment and competitive business and is one of the basic preconditions for Serbia's economic, social and political development. All negative consequences and conditions in the judiciary and judicial reform from previous years must be removed. Effective systematic and uncompromising fight against crime and corruption requires co-operation from all state authorities, which deal with law enforcement. The Serbian government will examine the process of carrying out all the privatisations suspected of being carried out in an anti-legal manner, as mentioned in the European Commission's report. The Serbian government will wage a sharp fight against organised crime, and in co-operation with the democratic world it will also fight all forms of terrorism. Serbia's government will continue to reform the defence and security sector, with the goal of the military, police and security services as the main focus of protecting citizens and the state while strengthening the civil control mechanism, their work, in order to prevent abuse and overrun powers. I support requests to open files of secret and police services, in a way that will not endanger the country's security. We will advocate public work, clear and transparent regulations aimed at reducing the will of officials and officials, who are in a position to decide on other people's rights and interests, which is a basic prerequisite for rooting out corruption. We will apply all preventive measures to prevent conflicts of interest in all areas. We will continue to co-operate with all major international organisations and agencies in the fight against drug trafficking, human trafficking, arms smuggling and other most serious forms of international crime. Special attention will be paid to implementing all necessary anti-terrorism measures in co-operation with all countries of the region. We'll perform the maximum rationalization of the state administration. We will eliminate non-productive expenditure and eliminate unnecessary state bodies and agencies. In this way, the cost of the state will be reduced and the efficiency of the work of the administration will be increased. We will reduce bureaucratic procedures and speed up the work of the administration. We will establish fast response offices at all levels, which will give citizens and businesses a more efficient state service in one place. We're going to introduce electronics at all levels and remove unnecessary paperwork. This means that citizens will no longer have to be physically present and go from one authority to another, to waste time and money collecting the necessary documents in the registers of the Republic of Serbia in order to submit some request. To make Serbia progress faster, all parts of Serbia need equal chances. We will pay particular attention to the reduction of regional differences, with a view to more uniform regional development. We will form special teams for the economic development of the most underdeveloped, or strategically important parts of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia will respect the degree of autonomy of the AP Vojvodina, in a manner defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no reason for a different policy towards Vojvodina because it is autonomy in Serbia and not against Serbia. In this sense, the government of the Republic of Serbia will co-operate with the province's authorities, opposing all extreme views, whether it is a requirement to abolish autonomy, whether it is a threat to internationalisation of the Vojvodina autonomy issue, because it will not be threatened by the government. The government of the Republic of Serbia will ensure a balanced development of traffic infrastructure. In addition to the completion of the main traffic corridors, the highway from Belgrade to western Serbia - Corridor 11, the highway from Pojat to Preljina, the Western-Moral Corridor, the merger of Kragujevac with Corridor 10 will be built, a regional highway linking Zaječar and Bor with Corridor 10 to Paracin and connecting Loznica and Shabac with Corridor 10 will be built through Ruma, a tunnel through Fruska Mountain to Novi Sada, etc. It is also necessary to build a modern telecommunications optical infrastructure. Modern electronic communications and a broad explanation of Internet access should be given to citizens and businesses in all parts of Serbia. The health care system, which we will seek to provide, is based on the principles of equal and general access and availability of health institutions, doctors and medicines to patients. The right to health is a fundamental human right. Health is public, not just private. The state is responsible for the protection of the health of citizens. All citizens of Serbia should be covered by health insurance on the principles of solidarity, equality and universality. In the long term, we advocate full free health care, and in the short term, to minimise participation, as well as to extend the list of health services and medicines that can be issued on prescription and pay for the burden from the means of compulsory health insurance. We also believe that a law on the protection of the rights of patients based on European standards should be passed. Knowledge and education are one of the most important pillars of change that we need to make in order to become a democratically developed and economically stable society as soon as possible, ready and capable of European integration. It is therefore necessary to ensure a stable functioning of the education system in order to make education a driving force for change. The main objectives of education development are: improving availability, i.e. fairness and equality in education, increasing the quality of education and efficiency of the education system. It is particularly important that in education we provide equal chances for all, regardless of social status and origin, and that we increase the number of educated citizens. The state must maintain and improve free primary and secondary education, provide free textbooks, encourage higher education and invest in the development of education infrastructure. The goal we are seeking is to increase education gaps from year to year. Our strategic goal is to create a knowledge-based society. To this end, we will increase investment in infrastructure projects in science and scientific research, with industry and the private sector involved in funding science as partnerships between those who create scientific innovation and knowledge and those who are directly users of science and knowledge. The government of the Republic of Serbia will guarantee and continue to improve all human and minority rights regulations in line with the highest international legal standards in Europe and the developed world. What we are defined is to implement politically responsible and legally guaranteed anti-discrimination policy and the protection of the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities, as well as the rights and freedoms of other minority groups. The state authorities and authorities of the state administration must be open to all citizens of Serbia, regardless of national, religious or any other diversity. I would clearly like to say, as the future prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, that no Serbian citizen should be discriminated over because he is not a Serb. On the other hand, no Serb in Serbia should be discriminated against because he is a Serb living in environments where most of them are members of other nationalities. I would especially like to point out the good co-operation I had with members of the Hungarian national minority and the SVM, which has contributed greatly to the fact that in recent years the number of international conflicts and incidents has been the smallest compared to the last 10 years. When it comes to southern Serbia, we want to offer Albanians integration, the political and social system of Serbia, and to fight crime, extremism and terrorism together with a strong fight. Like any other modern democratic state, we want an agreement on a common life in the interests of peace and security, both for Serbs and Albanians living in southern Serbia. We believe that a reform of regulation is necessary to contribute to the creation of an open democratic society, to provide conditions for objective, free and quality journalism and to the achievement of the constitutional principle of citizens' right to true and complete information. Together with the press associations, we will propose to amend the legislation, especially the Information Act, the Radio-Difusion Act, as well as the Telecommunications Act. These should be adapted not only to the requirements of further democratisation of society, but also to modern technologies. We will fight censorship and release journalists from political pressures, as well as the pressures of editors, messengers and other centres of power. In this area, every monopoly and political control over the media should be disabled. In line with the requirements of domestic, European and world news associations, the public and transparency of the ownership structure in the media should be ensured, while preventing ownership concentration that exceeds European standards. Neither I nor the Government of Serbia have nor will we have the ambition to do other people's work. So, this government won't have its own spin doctor to deal with media editing and wherever we can without jeopardizing the existence of people and the survival of these media, we'll try to get out of the ownership structure. The media scene requires the provision of conditions for normal work, rules that we will adopt together with media representatives and transparency of government work in the first place and the work of the media. That is why we also support the initiative on the adoption of a law on transparency of ownership in the media. I don't hide what we're doing. We will be members of the government, I will be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and I expect those who write about this work and the work of this government will not hide either. In that sense, the last change of ownership in "Politics" will be reconsidered. Also, the public must know how much public companies' money has been donated and spent on advertising campaigns in certain media and whether, in such a way, the money of citizens and the state of Serbia has been given to political structures belonging to the directors of these public enterprises. When it comes to the media, freedom of speech and the right to the truth will be the primary postulate of this government. That's why there can't be any secrets in any investigations involving unsolved murder of journalists. I call on the press associations to gain insight into the facts of the investigation and the procedures being conducted. The Serbian government will continue good co-operation with church and religious communities operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in order to respect and protect freedom of religion. All the fundamental laws and sublaws governing the relationship of the state and society with churches and religious communities have been passed. It is now necessary through one efficient and fully operational body to do whatever it takes to bring regulations to an end. The Ministry of Faith as an independent body does not exist anywhere, almost in any modern European state. Involving confidence in another resort would lead to the full devising of this important area. Therefore, the future Serbian government office for co-operation with churches and religious communities will significantly improve the construction of a constructive state relationship with the Serbian Orthodox Church and other traditional churches and religious communities. The Serbian government will continue to maintain stronger ties with our countrymen in the world, as well as special ties with countries in the region in which a significant number of our countrymen live. We will support and provide conditions for all legitimate interests and rights of our diaspora, from the regulation of citizenship, additional education in schools, participation in the business life and development of Serbia to participation in the elections for the authorities in Serbia. The lack of a ministry does not mean less concern, but means a concern that cannot and must not be just declarative. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal of this government is not to ask the question of whose who is who, but who is who. We are ready to work together in the interests of Serbia, especially in the area of EU accession negotiations and addressing national and national problems such as Kosovo and Metohija. The principle of active partnership with the professional public must also be present in the work of each Minister and Head of State. I will require everyone to develop maps of key actors in their field of work and to regularly inform me of the way in which they maintain communication. I will especially insist that all ministers regularly inform me of meeting the recommendations they receive from independent bodies, especially from the Citizens' Protectors, other parliamentary creditors, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the State Auditor and others. The government of the Republic of Serbia is the holder of the executive authority in Serbia. It determines and leads politics. The government is responsible to the National Assembly for the politics of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and for the work of the authorities of the state administration. Ministers are responsible for their work, for the situation in the area of the ministry's work to the government, the government and the National Assembly, for the people of Serbia. We have a new four-year game with problems and a fight for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. The people are the only selector, the one who decides whether we're good or not and whether we should participate in this team or not. The state, if we want it to be strong and at the same time fair and solid, requires a whole series of new rules, rules that will be reached in agreement with the whole society, new rules not as an expression of the will of the ruling elite, but as a result of the agreement of the state and the economy, trade unions, media, associations, financial institutions. Order and law must be the same for everyone, from politicians, through large capitalists to ordinary citizens. This government will not matter what or how it says, but what or how it does. We want to promote the result and we don't need another PR. We're not gonna talk about fires, we're gonna put them out, but first of all, we're gonna do everything we can to make sure it doesn't come to them. Justice and equality for all, especially those who, in times of transition, have lost their jobs and income for life, will be the top priority of this government. To hire and start Serbia, to create new jobs, to find a way to re-produce our workers in our factories. We'll certainly do the best we can. We must also publicly state where all Serbia really is Serbia, where Serbian laws rule, where it ceases, and then by means of a broad consensus we adopt a policy for which this government will fight. Those questions are certainly the hardest, but that's why we have to answer them quickly, to say what we want, and what we're not going to do and to stand behind how it would never happen to us that we're being transferred as we promise something, and then we don't do it or something worse happens to us, to promise ourselves something that we won't be able to do. Equality - native, working, will be the national policies of this government. Women will be in first place anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, women earn less than men in Serbia. In the same workplace and with the same school equipment, they have 10% less pay than men. This is the biggest discrimination that exists today in Serbia, but also in other European countries. That's gotta change. All that has been neglected in Serbia, forgotten, abused, rejected and worth it, must return to its deserved place. Some parts of Serbia must come to life, get infrastructure, businesses, jobs, and become places where people will return. Not to die there, but to live there. I will mention something that has long since been mentioned by a prime minister in his exposé – patriotism and patriotism, a sense of belonging, love and respect for his state of Serbia, without hatred for others, but that Serbia is always our first priority. Dear Members of the People, Honored Presidential National Assembly, Honored citizens of Serbia, it is my honor to propose the following candidates for members of the Government of Serbia: Prime Minister and Minister of Interior – Ivica Dačić, First Deputy Prime Minister in charge of defence and security, the fight against corruption and crime and Minister of Defence – Aleksandar Vucic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy – Dr Jovan Krkobibić, Deputy Prime Minister of European Integration – Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications – Dr Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Finance and Business – Mr Mladjan Dinkić, Minister of Foreign Affairs – Ivan Mrkić, Minister of Regional Development and Local Government – Mrica Kalanovic, Minister of Transport – Milutin Mrkonjić, Minister of Finance and Business, Minister of Agriculture and Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture – Ministers of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia – Ministers and Minister of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Croatia, Ministers of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia – Minister of Croatia – Ministers of Croatia, Minister of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, in the time in which we live, no one is a magician so that he can solve all the problems Serbia faces. Serbian citizens expect more justice, a state that helps them and a decisive, responsible and effective government, which will share the fate of their people and expects politicians they can trust. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, allow me to thank the current government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic for his co-operation in carrying out responsible state duties. I want to tell the opposition that we are not political enemies and that, although we are political opponents, I expect that we will cooperate when it comes to decisions and laws that are essential to people and the state. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President, respected citizens, the government that will be elected today is the smallest government in Serbia's recent history since 1990, noting that the only government of Vojislav Kostunica since 2004, has had the same number of members. This will be the smallest government since 1990, and God will be the best. I will end my political address, as always, what I consider most important – Hail Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm setting a 30-minute break, when we'll continue our work. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We heard a program and a proposal from the government put forward by Mr. Ivica Dacic, a candidate for Prime Minister. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia - six minutes, the parliamentary group of the SPO-DSS Group – six minutes, the six minutes of the six minutes of the sodmin and the six minutes of the SPO Group – the six minutes sod group of the SPO-DSS – the six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 269. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to search for a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government. Do the presidents or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Nenad Canak came forward first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u471	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, friends and comrades, the old truth is that everyone has a chance and I really think it's true. This government would certainly have the right to stand a chance, but if we see a little better who should make this government, I have the impression that many have already had their chance, and some times more. The inspirational exposés of the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, already says in the second paragraph: that we have entered into general poverty and the fall of life, economic, cultural and civilizational standards of Serbian society. That's more than true. I must draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, not to get into poverty and the fall of living standards, but to be brought into poverty and the fall of living standards. Some political idea, some concrete people, implementing some concrete programme, make the state move forward or tap into place, i.e. It's falling apart. That's why, let's see what really happened, because, as far as I understand the Prime Minister, I am obliged to say this at this point, what really happened, and not to move from it as if we first met, for the first time we looked into the eyes and as if we were starting from scratch, from a country that has no beginning, no end, no history, no present. Very, Mr. Prime Minister, your use of the word "rebirth" inspired me to remember the words of Adolf Hitler, who opened the House of German Art in Munich and began his presentation with a speech: "Happy is the people who have great tasks on their way. A man doesn't just live on bread. It's not just our economies and our finances that are at risk. Our souls are also at risk. That's why we're going to bring rebirth to Germany. ". They believed him. We know the end. I am interested – which is why you insist so much that political actors in Serbia are dealing with the past, as if the past is something that is taboo, which we must not talk about, as if this past is some kind of boring past of mutual, petty encounters around the level of interest rate or various social givings, and not as if for the past 25 years it's been pampering in Balkan mud, five wars, hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of displaced people, countless accidents and all that burdens Serbia's relations, not only with the environment, but within it. It would be ideal for anyone who has some kind of debt to say – well, it doesn't matter, from now on, let's just forget what happened. You, Mr. Prime Minister, have on many occasions mentioned those who are unwarrantedly rich and who, if I understand you correctly, you have nothing against rich people by definition, but you have against those who have unwarrantedly riched themselves and that you and such tycoons, which make up less than one permeation of this society, make up one parasite part that lives on the expense of the deepest possible layer of the poor. We need to remind you that all of those who are here today, in that category, were less, more of these tycoons, between 1990 and 2000. It would be very important to hear the names of those who came after or before that. On the other hand, when it comes to what needs to be done in Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, you mention 165 municipalities in Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija when you talk about natural growth. On what basis do you single out Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia? I don't see it that way by the Constitution. As far as I understand it, the Constitution is what you stand for, because you are talking about that in all the talks on unresolved issues, the basis will be the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What part of the Constitution, Mr. Prime Minister? What part of the Constitution, when the Constitution has defined that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, for example, and the type of essential autonomy, which Kosovo and Metohija should have in the Republic of Serbia, will be resolved by a special law? That law has never been passed, and this is not your first government, Mr. Prime Minister, in which you are, but by my count the third or fourth. In that direction, it would be very good to think about what really happened here. You're talking about Serbia's European future, you're talking about resolving the Kosovo issue, regional co-operation and the fight against crime and corruption, and I'm asking you how do you think you do it? Your social programme, in which you are long-term advocated for free healthcare, and now to reduce participation, as far as possible, is really moving. But who will pay for it, Mr. Prime Minister? When we talk about economics, you mention some kind of development, where it should be most invested in the incentive of exporters. Did I understand you correctly? I'll remind you of one important thing, the country Serbia is most exporting to right now is the Federal Republic of Germany. The country most imported from right now is the Russian Federation. So, investing further approaching Russia is investing in imports, not in exports. For the simple reason why, if you start with an economy that's related to these loans, which I've been listening to all along, which is a wave of commodity loans or is a dedicated loan, we'll get the next situation. Anyone can give you a billion-euro loan if your matchbox counts 100m euros. That's exactly how all these loans are made. Or, when you say -- here's the money for Russian companies to buy Serbian companies, my question is -- who's profiting there? Or what happens next is that when it is taken on purpose, credits are due to the fact that without a tender they have to take, Russian firms do jobs that should normally be done by domestic companies. In that case, Russian companies earn money, and domestic burdens are due interest. It's not the economy that I understand. That's why this whole story has to be much clearer and much more economical and less politically-based. You mentioned John Maynar Canz, if I understand correctly, the creator of the liberal economy. Unfortunately, I think John Maynar Kanes can be used here in one completely different light, and that's his saying, "We're all dead in perspective, but that doesn't mean that there's nothing we can do in the meantime," that concept, in the meantime, raises the question to what extent do you believe in the sustainability of this concept you're now talking about? You mentioned in economic terms and the issue of agriculture. I'm asking you, how do you think you're dealing with the issue of agriculture and the question of, say, irrigation, irrigation investment, when, say, we came into a position that "The Dukes" don't get enough money to maintain an existing irrigation system in Vojvodina and they can't handle it? You know why? Because it has never been respected, even the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under which the Vojvodina budget should be 7% of Serbia's budget. Because no law has ever been passed on the financing of the provinces. When you have a province without funding, you have an empty form that makes citizens sick with the idea of autonomy. This is inadmissible, because it is manipulation and the Constitution, manipulation of the entire concept of decentralisation of the state and manipulation that is being fought over by Vojvodina, which was once the most developed part of the Republic of Serbia, and now, as we know, an underdeveloped part of the Republic of Serbia. You mentioned that there is no stable financial sector, which is the economy in the problem and, as I understand it, you are calling for the governor of the National Bank to be involved more. If I understand you correctly, it's not a matter of the governor or his way of functioning, it's a matter of foreign reserve. Are you going to cut your foreign reserve, Mr. Prime Minister? Is your government the government that's going to go after the asset sale team? Although you said very decidently that it would not sell EPS and would not sell Railways, PTT, Airport, etc. But is that so? Or will one part be sold based on the debts, and then on the basis of the debts, that part grows? And that, by whom? According to, say, those who can't afford to have this government secure a military base in Nis. Of course, I'm talking about the Russian Federation. You say there will be no freezing pensions and wages. At the same time, you say -- emergency measures are needed to reduce the budget deficit. That's two contradictory things. It is quite clear to you that without the start of the economy, and that in the short term is not possible, it is not possible to achieve these two things at the same time. That's why you have to take great care of your sentence that the state needs to be regulated, and that seems to be the law. No, it doesn't seem like laws, it's law enforcement. We have come to the position that a series of laws and constitutional provisions have never been implemented. I see that you are also pushing for a solution to the Kosovo problem and for the stability of the region. That's really commendable. But I have a very simple question for you. If you're going to start talking about anger, and with respect to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you're going to have to tell me with respect to what work of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? In this sense, Serbia's constitution is quite contradictory within itself, because it is constantly talking about some northern part of Kosovo, about our countrymen in Kosovo, while at the same time predicting a million and 800,000 people who are not our countrymen living in Kosovo, who were citizens of the Republic of Serbia until yesterday. How are we gonna handle this? Do you have a plan or will we continue to make a mistake that has been made so far? It's a mistake not to do anything. Because this government, which we are now talking about here, is infinitely like, Mr. Prime Minister, the Government of Mirko Marijanović, formed on 24 March 1998. You know what? Because it contained SPS, JUL, now you have another Vulina, there was the SRS, it was SNS with a changed middle letter and it was Mr Karic. So, just missing May Gojkovic. And then you got a government supported by 192 MPs. That's how it was on March 24, 1998. In that government, Nikolic master Tomislav, he was not yet a master yet, was Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, Minister of Information Mrs. Tabakovic, Minister of Privatisation Maja Gojkovic, without portfolio, as well as Bogoljub Karic. Same composition. Now I ask you, if these people were banned from EU countries in 1999, if you remember that detail, I believe you didn't miss it, then the question is, don't you think that a little bit of a sharper step from those coordinates should have been made, rather than a list of good wishes? Because, watch out, you say – let's not deal with the past anymore, we deal with the future, Serbia provides a hand of reconciliation for everyone. Mr. Prime Minister, may I ask you a question? Who will you send to the Potocara next year? Whom will you send to Potocara to kneel on behalf of Serbia before the victims made in the name of the Serbian people and of Serbia? Because the genocide that was committed there is a matter that is very burdening the citizens of Serbia and the entire state, by the fact that it is impossible to establish normal relations with the environment if our newer history continues to be avoided. I suggest, Mr. Prime Minister, the future prime minister of this country, that you take every step towards the most urgent lustration, the lustration of those of the 1990s who brought us into this situation, we did not fall into it, nor did we happen, to stop this devastation that we came into. You mentioned a sharp fight against organized crime and all forms of terrorism. What's terrorism? Terroristism, if I recall correctly, is the implementation of political goals by violent means. So, harassing citizens, destroying property, planting explosives, fires, etc., etc. Do we have terrorists in this country, Mr. Prime Minister? Do we have those who organize to prevent the Constitution from guaranteeing the rights of these citizens by breaking the country's capital, Belgrade, gathering in various places, creating incidents to drag them through the military doctrine of the police force? Do we have that? We do. It's a bunch of hooligans who've disrupted the Pride Parade. The country didn't stand up to them last time. Please tell me, who has prevented you from resisting terrorism so far? Who has stopped you from resisting crime so far? Who's been stopping you from doing that so far? We supported, as the League of Social Democrats the Duke's past government. Please tell me who stopped you, so we can spit on those who betrayed what we agreed on. If it wasn't possible to do that, why? What's changed now, so it'll be possible? Or won't it be possible? Or are we still going to be the hostages of a bunch of informal, essential paramilitary groups that terrorise this country in which every clerofastic group has been waiting years for her to have mercy on the Constitutional Court to even answer whether it would be good to maybe be banned or? But that's why, lightningly, when a vote is passed that a deal has been made on the future government, the Constitution is being derailed with the guaranteed rights of the AP Vojvodina. Of course I support your support for requests to open files of secret police services, but explain to me a sentence – what does it mean: in a way that will not compromise the country's security system? That way it'll never be opened. That's exactly the kind of thing we need to agree on. You say "the government of the Republic of Serbia will respect the degree of AP Vojvodina and in a manner defined by the Constitution of Serbia and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no reason for a different policy towards Vojvodina, because it is autonomy in Serbia and not against Serbia." I must say, I have a more concise and better description of the Duke I hardly heard. But I also have one small question: what does it mean here: "In this sense, it will co-operate with the province's authorities, opposing all extreme attitudes, whether it is a requirement to abolish autonomy, whether it is a threat to the internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue, because it will not be threatened by this government." She's already been compromised. That's why, when I'm talking about internationalization, and I was forced to say it, I'm talking about the simple thing -- it's not us in Vojvodina who want to internationalize the issue of Vojvodina. This was done by the Constitutional Court by abolishing minority rights and completely forgetting one important thing, Mr. Prime Minister, which is - the citizens of Vojvodina did not vote for the Serbian Constitution in 1990, which was contrary to the SFRY Constitution. The people of Vojvodina did not support the 2006 majority constitution. The people of Vojvodina did not support the election of Nikolic master Tomislav as president of the Republic of Serbia. You can tell me that it doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter to anyone who speaks in the co-ordinates of bureaucratic arrogance, I believe you're not that kind of a man and you don't want to be such a Prime Minister, but to anyone who deals with politics, it would become very suspicious that one part of this country is constantly thinking differently, and that part of this country, in which the vast majority of them are citizens of Serbian nationality. Where's the misunderstanding? Is it possible that a misunderstanding in the fact that fatigue with the constant dissuasion of the people of Vojvodina began to grow bigger and bigger? I ask you – what are we going to do about education? You're saying that education is democratisation and that there's more to it. And I ask you, and what shall we do that the educated do not depart from this land? Because we have come to the point that over the past 20 years, Serbia has come to the conclusion that a third of its doctors live in the United States. Somebody explain to me how you think you're doing something about this? Somebody explain to me, when you say you're fighting... Mr. Chanak, just to let you know that time is up. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. So how do you think you can do all this in the framework of the current Serbian Constitution? I don't think that's possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u472	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u473	I certainly won't answer for a word after every speaker, but given Mr. Chank's impressive discussion, which responded to my inspirational exposé, let me just say a few words. When it comes to Hitler, I think that the SPS and I, together with Mr Canka, are in a block of anti-fascist forces in Serbia, and I think those words should be directed towards someone else. Besides, as you know, I insisted that the image of Milan Nedic be removed from the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the puppet government during World War II cannot be the legitimate government of the Republic of Serbia formed by Hitler. I don't feel absolutely called. Only if he thinks the word "rebirth" belongs to Hitler and I think that most of you here should really suffer the consequences of it all. I think there's been a lot of use of that word in other parties' programmes. When it comes to the new government of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind Mr Chanko who said the new government is jeopardising Serbia's autonomy. Mr. Canak, the new government hasn't been elected yet. The new government cannot threaten the autonomy of the Vojvodina, because it has not yet been chosen. If someone is threatening her, then it is threatened by the existing Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you supported and whose election list you were on, and whose deputy prime minister I was. I'm the deputy prime minister in that government. That's right, Mr. Micunovic, you think I'm giving it up? So, if you're talking about the Constitutional Court, I would just remind you, gentlemen who led your party's staff policy, that the judges of the Constitutional Court chose this assembly. True, in the last term, when Oliver Dulic chaired. Isn't that right, Mr. Dulic? Did you sign that act? Is it true that the Serbian parliament chose five constitutional judges on Boris Tadic's proposal, his 10th, did Boris Tadic, of the 10 proposals you sent him, choose five and have the third five chosen the Supreme Cassation Court at the general session? That decision was signed by Nata Mesarevic. Neither Nata Mesarevic nor Boris Tadic nor Oliver Dulic are the new parliamentary majority. If you chose judges who were such judges of the Constitutional Court that they couldn't wait to change power, I think what you're saying is absolutely politically illogical. How can someone be guilty of something that hasn't even taken power yet? I told you, Mr. Canak, I voted for the Duke's statute. If we hadn't voted that statute, you wouldn't have been brought in. Whether it's good or bad, he'll probably say it's bad, but I voted for the Duke's statute. And today I have made it clear that I will defend the autonomy of the Vojvodina defined by the Constitution and the statute and as prime minister. Just please, don't transfer me to the problems of your coalition that you went to the elections with, because this government of the Republic, I didn't influence the adoption of the Law on the financing of Vojvodina, I didn't have any effect on getting thrown out of the Duke's statutes by any of the parts you wanted, so discuss it with your coalition. Don't make a political spectacle here that I would like to answer if I were not now in office as prime minister, or future prime minister. Because far from the spectacle is what awaits us in political life. Once again I tell you not to threaten us, my Serbian government does not threaten the autonomy of Vojvodina. Why hasn't that been realized so far? I think that's the topic you need to discuss, and here are the top DS officials, so let them explain to you why it wasn't implemented. Let them explain, and not now, I'm looking at your MPs here who are now laughing ironically at something you're talking about the new government. How can you speak like that and sit here until yesterday? This government still exists. In case this government is not elected, you are still in power, gentlemen and you, Mr. Bogdanovic, are in power. Your relationship with Kosovo cannot be "if I am in power now or not". (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: Why do you take me as an example? Because unlike you, I observe how you behave and how you react to some of the statements that are heard here. I think I spoke very responsibly in my exposé, and I didn't throw a single word anywhere where I find it incorrect. I haven't talked about the collapse of the country in the last 12 years, I've been talking about the last decades. I'll also remind you of the Constitution. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia was not written by the SPS, it was just written by your political counterparts from the DS and from the DSS. Is that true, gentlemen of the DS? Was it written by Zoran Lonchar and was it Hiber? You sent the SRS and the SPS only when you were done. You're now talking about the Constitution as if it was brought to you by someone from Mars. Take responsibility. What do I want to tell you? I absolutely don't care if anything should have been done. I'm just saying, don't transfer it to a new government that's yet to be elected. As of tomorrow, you have the right to criticize her for the work of the new government. Now criticise the existing. After all, I have returned the flag of Vojvodina to you as a sign that Serbia is guarding the autonomy of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u474	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u475	If I may only notice one small thing, this is the first time you've returned something, something you've stolen before, but the first part you've done more often. I wanted to tell you something else. You're right, we'll talk about this in a few days, but I'd just like to ask you a few questions about the very composition of the government. Will you just tell me, I can see that Mrs. Verica Kalanovic is here, the person who left the NIP in February 2010, as 1.83% in Vojvodina was double counting the highway. I see there's Mrkonjic, Dr Milutin, but there's nothing to add. I see there's Ilic's master, Velimir, to finish working on what he hasn't stolen so far. I see the Minister of Health is a man... (President: Mr. Canak I only warn you that you do not address people's MPs and candidates for ministers with offensive expressions. Let me finish, these are the ministers' candidates. They're not ministers, they're not MPs. So you're proposing to the minister of justice a man who's an assistant at the university when he's 29. For the Minister of Culture, you define a man who participated in the organization of the transfer book of Milan Lukić, a man who was sentenced to life imprisonment because of the most fierce beasts that can be imagined in Visegrad. I'm interested in how you think you're fighting corruption in conditions when you're sitting here with Mladjan Dinkic? How do you think you do everything, and I'd love to know the answers, but I don't know them, and that's why you're the prime minister. So I'd like you to just explain that to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u476	Mr. Vulin, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u477	You know, these analogies are very wrong and very strange, because in 1998 for the government that made the parties you lacked the SPO, you lacked, among other things, the DS that voted for the Kumanian Agreement. You miss everything, but you don't miss me, because not only was I not in that government, but I refused to participate in political life, because that's the rule of law. I wouldn't go back to political life, and I know it's incomprehensible to you that someone can reject power for principled reasons. But I wouldn't have gone back to politics as you burn this assembly and beat people up in Serbia and I didn't see you throw a tablet of RTS in Novi Sad and spit on it and curse his mother in Belgrade. So if I hadn't seen all this, you wouldn't have looked at me today in this congregation. You forgot to add that you have been in this country for 12 years in different ways in power and that for 12 years in this country you have participated with all these parties that you have talked about in privatisation, in wealth, in poverty of this country, and in poverty of the people of Vojvodina. You forgot to mention that, and as you forgot to ask about Adolf Hitler, you said that you were celebrated by the portrait in Adolf Hitler's position in armor. So, you forgot to tell us, and on the question of terrorists, you could add that there are terrorists in this country and they're called "Rosse," and a year ago they tried to invade that north of Kosovo that, for some reason, you don't like very much. Just so you know, this assembly and our public Serbs are back at the barricades today, because they're trying to re-establish customs crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u478	I'll give you the right to a replica of Mr. Chank, but I'm asking you not to use the name directly. In any case, I ask you to return this debate to what was on the agenda in the future, which is the government's programme and therefore I ask you to address us accordingly. Mr. Canak. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u479	I'll just say one thing, from Mr. Vulin's exposure to the burning of the Assembly and about vandal behavior, about beating up journalists, etc., I recognized Mr. Ilic Velimir and I don't feel called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u480	The head of the SPO parliamentary group, Mr. Jugovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u481	Just for the sake of truth, respected colleagues, esteemed president, the SPO has never been in the government of Mirko Marjanovic and I would ask that only facts be used in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u482	Thank you. The next word came from Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u483	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the future government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to begin tonight's address with one quote. I won't mention the source, but I believe, Mr. Dacic, that we'll all recognize where this quote came from. "If only miracles were to happen, then the Millack Bridges were to be carried away." I think there are miracles in Serbia, but these wonders are not primarily related to political life. I don't think anyone is too surprised by the fact that you are the prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia tonight, as I don't think we are very surprised by the disappearance of a bridge between some parties, which made up the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia. At first, I would like to say that the SVM parliamentary group will not be able to support this government's election tonight and that we will vote against it. We will vote against the fact that we are leading an independent policy, we are not taking sides with any of the so-called big parties, and therefore we are similar to the SPS. On the other hand, we try to keep politics in line with principles that provide us with consistency and credibility. On Vidovdan almost a month ago, when it was announced that a new coalition was formed, we said that we would be a constructive opposition to that government, but that we are ready to co-operate with this government if, meanwhile, it turns out that the government is worthy of our support. We don't formulate attitudes of apriors, we don't formulate attitudes based on certain assumptions, we don't formulate attitudes based on who he is, what he did 15 years ago, twenty years ago. That is why we do not rule out the possibility that we will cooperate in due course, but that depends solely on the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which, I cannot say today, will be elected in the next few hours. You said, Mr. Dacic, that you wanted the new government to be the government of the future and turn to the future, not to deal with the past. We said four years ago when we supported Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic for the president of the National Assembly, we have not regretted for one moment that decision that we are not ready for collective amnesia or collective amnesty, as far as the 1990s are concerned. At the same time, I share your position, we need to turn to the future and therefore there is the possibility that in the future we can co-operate with this government if this government proves that it deserves our support and if we can realise some of our programming definitions. When a decision is made on how a parliamentary group will vote, several facts should be taken into account. The composition of the Government should be taken into account, the exposés of the Prime Minister should be taken into account, the expectations of the Government should be taken into account. I must tell you, Mr Dacic, if we could vote specifically on the mandate, on the one hand, and on the members of the government and on the government's programme, on the other hand, we would certainly vote differently. We would certainly support you as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you why right away. Because four years ago we voted for you, we voted for you to be the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of the Interior. I think it would be maximum inconsistencies to say that four years ago you were acceptable all along, as the first vice president of the government, without being acceptable as the president of the future government. I can also say the same thing with regard to Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who was also a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I could say the same about Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who was the president of the National Assembly, and will now be Minister of Health. I could list a few more names from the future government of the Republic of Serbia. So, as far as these names are concerned, we have no problem, because we've always been principled. On the other hand, you're right, Mr. Dacic, when you say that your co-operation, as First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, was great with the SVM. Yes, it is. We've realized very important things with common forces. I'd just like to remind you of a few items from our co-operation so far over the past four years. For example, we've amended the Police Act. Thanks to this solution, we have allowed members of the national minorities, who have dual citizenship, to work with the police. In addition, we have increased the number of members of national minorities in the police force. Not as much as we wanted, but still a shift. When it comes to Mr. Obradovic, who will be and who is the minister of education. We have managed to create a common legal framework in the field of education, which respects the rights of members of national minorities. We've done it in the past four years. The adoption of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, which is not related to the SPS, but to DS and SVM, but the rules in the field of education are in line with the solutions set out in the National Councils Act and therefore the collapsies have disappeared and therefore, as far as education is concerned, members of national minorities can enjoy their individual and collective rights. I want to draw Mr. Bratislava Petkovic's attention immediately, that this work is waiting for us about culture. Certain solutions from the Law on Culture need to be brought into line with the solutions of the Law on National Councils. I sincerely hope that we will encounter openness, as we have encountered openness by your predecessor, Mr. Predrag Markovic, we just haven't had time to turn these ideas into legal solutions. As for Mrs Susana Grubjesic, we've been working together for five years here at the National Assembly. She was also president of the European Integration Committee for a time. If we have cooperated so far and if she has done a similar job in the National Assembly, I see no reason why she could not do this in quality, professional and safe in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the government's composition is concerned, that's all. As far as the program goes, it's already a bit more complicated. The exposé is always a list of good wishes and I have nothing to say against Mr. Dacic's exposure tonight, but it should wait, it should be seen in the coming weeks, in the coming months, what and how it will be realized from that program. That's why we have to give the new government a chance. The chance should not, according to us, be given in a way that we give blank support to this government by voting for, but the chance should be given in a way that we in direct contact cooperate, that we tell the ministers what it is that we want to realize and if it goes, and that all these programming definitions are such that they are in the interest not only of the Hungarian national communities, but of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens, then we will certainly cooperate. We didn't want to enter the government. We didn't want to be part of the ruling majority. That's not what we want right now. It's a bit atypical for Serbia's opportunities, to say ahead -- no, no, I refuse to participate in the government, I refuse to be part of the ruling majority. But I think that's the most honest thing and that this can be the most consistent with the expectations of those citizens thanks to whom five of us are sitting in the National Assembly tonight and thanks to which an SVM parliamentary group was formed after more than 10 years. As far as the exposé is concerned, I'm saying with the exposé, everything was fine, we just haven't heard what the income side of that exposé is, from which sources these goals that are undeniable to us will be realized. It is very important that the economy and demographics are first in Mr. Dacic's exposé. I couldn't agree more. We also agree on the need to speed up European integration and to make a great effort to get a date for the start of negotiations. It is excellent to point out that among the top priorities is improving relations with neighbours. The news is, in a way, what's the first time in the exposé of a prime minister, KiM is talking about from a realistic point of view. Not as we'd say, but it's much more realistic than it was four or five years ago. We absolutely agree that we need to normalise the lives of everyone in Kosovo. We also agree absolutely on the need to implement everything the previous government has agreed and that the government should continue dialogue. As for the fight against corruption, it is again an undeniable goal that has been in the exposés of all previous prime ministers. What gives hope is the part about agriculture. In this regard, I would not like to speak more specifically, because it will be done by my colleague, Arpad Fremond, in the debate, but I must stress that it is most important for those who deal with agriculture in Serbia to make agrarian policy predictable. We absolutely support the doubling of the agrarian budget. The only question is which sources will do so, but that is what we have advocated in the election campaign and not only the election campaign, but also before. It is absolutely good that the agricultural incentive law will be passed, because it will contribute to predictability, because it will not, in our hopes, be regulated in the future by government regulations. It is only clear to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, concerning rural development, will co-operate with the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, because I would like to inform you, Mr Dacic, that thanks to the Constitutional Court, whose judges, absolutely rightly, have chosen the National Assembly in 2007, means in the preceding term, when you and I were opposition MPs here in the National Assembly, that by the decision of that Constitutional Court, the authority of the Vojvodina was abolished as regards rural development and there is not a lot of jurisdiction in the area of agriculture, as far as Vojvodina is concerned. After that decision of the Constitutional Court, which must, of course, be respected since it is executive, general, binding and final. Speaking of decentralisation and the position of Vojvodina, we haven't heard anything about whether the government will propose a law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. I hope he will, since it is the constitutional obligation of the government, or the Assembly, to pass the law. That's what we were supposed to do by the end of 2008. In the end, I'd like to talk about our expectations. We expect this programme to be implemented, we expect our cooperation to be as it has been for the past four years. As far as we're concerned, there are no distractions and we expect some important things to be solved in this country. Since you're the Home Secretary, I'd like to talk to you first about public security. We've raised the question so-called. "Small thefts" in the last term. You know very well that there is a huge problem in the entire territory of Serbia that can literally be stolen in practice up to 5,000 dinars today. I think we need to change the criminal code, that this limit should be reduced to no more than two or three thousand dinars, I just misquoted the amount a little while ago, as far as these petty thefts are concerned. I don't think it's normal for free to steal up to 15,000 dinars, up to the amount that certain pensioners get, not a small number of pensioners. In addition, we believe that the Law on the Seats of Courts and Public Prosecutors should be amended, and I hope that this will be done very quickly. We advocated a similar solution in 2008. It is simply not normal that there are only 34 basic courts in this country and therefore I hope that certain urban environments, in the case of Kanjiza, Sente, Backe Topola, Vienna, will be returned to the courts that existed 150 years ago continuously, except for this last four years. I hope that minority rights will be fully respected, that we will comply with those laws that are not in line with the National Councils Act, I hope that the work of the Serbian-Hungarian Inter-Hungarian Inter-Academic Inter-Academic Mixed Commission of Historians will continue to be financed, which was founded with the aim of lighting tragic events during and after World War II. This inter-academia mixed commission of Serbia and Hungary has received 10 million dinars through our last amendment and I hope that we will continue to work to increase members of minority communities in the state administration, courts, public prosecutors, police, etc. to continue the process of partially transferring founding rights of primary schools to national councils. Finally, to conclude, tonight, in line with our promises made a month ago to our voters, we will vote against, but we remain open to co-operation. I hope we can do a lot in the interest of all Serbian citizens to implement the SVM programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u484	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word came from Mr. Jugovic as head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u485	Ladies and gentlemen, the exposé of the future prime minister was written from the hill-story. It looks like a contradictory fairy tale, which is also illiterate in some parts of it. Contradictivity is seen at the very beginning of this exposé, where he says everyone expects the Exposes to be wide and loaded with general places, and the time in which we live imposes a different approach on us. Expose is typed on page 22. So much for how narrow it is. In one piece, he says that Serbia is still a country of failed expectations and missed opportunities, large mistakes, some and criminal nature in privatising social property have been made, huge economic potentials have been ruined, etc. There is no mention here of the cause of Serbia's suffering. No one has the power of the ruling coalition, no mandater to mark the 1990s, to disown them, to say what the real cause is for which Serbia is in this situation. Many in Serbia forget what period we have been through and who have been the actors of political events that have led us to this situation where we are now. Then it says -- the programme of every government in democratic societies follows from the election programmes of those political groups that have gained citizens' confidence in the elections. And this is quite incorrect. These elections were attended by political parties running for policies that were in no way and in no form could they meet now, tonight, in the constitution of this government. We all know who participated in the elections, who supported who, who was in the Arena in the final rally, when promoting before the second round of politics Boris Tadic participated in his support and we know that the political reality and support this government has in the people is far, far less than the support it has in parliament. That's why 150 MPs of the ruling coalition or those who will support this government mean absolutely nothing. Now we come to what I said that this fairy tale is quite illiterate, because it is said that the needs of reaching a broad political consensus are on page 3. The consensus can't be broad or narrow, the consensus is a consensus and those who helped the future prime minister put together this exposé should know that. Another major problem is the huge social disintegration of the largest number of poor and one percent of the privileged and wealthy, who stand out from the rest of society. Do you have to record who these people are? Who are the tycoons? The tycoons are the people produced by Milosevic's establishment. The tycoons are the people who, during the 1990s, used political ties and the cover of Milosevic's chastity, ruled Serbia and instead of wondering which way and what the debts of these tycoons are and how we're going to tax them, we're talking about solidarity here, about mercy, we're talking about Serbia equality. This government is made up of political parties that are different political beliefs, both left and right, so I don't know how those political parties who advocate the right don't mind society of equal. We should create a society of equal odds, every solidarity is mercy. I ask the businessmen to do three things:1) not to fire workers and to pay them regularly; 2) to pay taxes and work within the framework of the law;3) to invest in Serbia and not to raise capital outside. She wrote that tycoons owe five billion euros for taxes and other contributions to Serbia. Well, we can't ask them for three things, so they don't fire workers and pay their profits regularly and pay taxes, there's criminal policy and there's obligations. Let's take an example of Norway. In Norway, one who is richer and who has greater incomes far greater penalties and contributions of wages. The penalty measure to a man who has five million euros in the bank and a man who is on the verge of being punished by 5,000 dinars is not the same. The penalty measure for a man who has five million euros must be much greater. Now again, we are coming to a contradiction, where there is no development, saving is a false issue and Serbia needs one and the other, because in another paragraph it is said that no belt should be tightened for the citizens of Serbia. It is said that a new law on public procurement needs to be passed. The police minister, a former deputy or still deputy prime minister, who claims to be prime minister, has not been defended for this time by anyone to support in this parliament the law on public procurement proposed by his coalition partners. I don't know why he's only now realizing that this law is so good. Then we get to invest more money in irrigation systems, etc. It is another part of the fairy tale, Serbia is in a dramatic state. Serbia is in a very bad state and one of the future ministers said the state budget is empty. I'm sorry he didn't say that in the campaign. He probably kept his positions for some other coalition. I am interested and I want to get an answer, if the Serbian state budget is empty, will my father receive a pension in September, will workers receive a salary? Then we're talking about establishing a rule of law, rule of law, and the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights has been abolished. I'm interested in one question, this government has abolished the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights and has a minister without portfolios. Many ask me, and for the sake of the public, you should explain what the minister will do without portfolios, which is his responsibility, which will deal with in the future during the government's next term. He says – we support requests to open files of secret and police services in a way that will not compromise the country's security system. This way, Jova Kapicicic can open secret police files. What does that mean? This means that in the same way as when the SPO two years ago, at the end of 2010, in this House proposed a law on the opening of files, this matter would be treated. All former communist countries have opened secret files and no security system has fallen anywhere. That is why I do not see any concern that the security system will fall in Serbia if, as in other countries, as in eastern Germany, such as Slovakia, as in the Czech Republic, covert files are opened. The problem is other nature, the problem is that secret files were opened in Bulgaria and that the Commission for opening secret files found that four ministers, and democratic ministers, after 2000, were co-workers of the security service, that over 200 diplomats were in their secret service's co-operation network, that 11 of the 15 Bulgarian bishops were also in their secret police co-operation network. It's about highways like we live in Switzerland. We'll build two highways, and in four years we haven't built a 10km highway. Then it's about unsolved murder of journalists. Every year, SPO leader and I, or often, or every year, go to Svetogorska Street, we know where Slavko Curuvija was killed, I've never seen any member of your party come there. I don't know what made this secret in the last four years of all these political murders, which is why they haven't been prosecuted, and which is why they haven't been tried to bring investigations to an end or process themselves to the end. Then he says, "The government of Serbia will continue to maintain stronger ties with our countrymen in the world," and the diaspora ministry has been abolished. Now I'm asking a question that's very important. The diaspora ministry has been abolished, and today an interview came out, says, "The new minister of culture, information and diaspora", the title of the interview is "We will develop a better relationship with the diaspora," he says. I don't know if all your ministers have been informed of what the Ministry Act looked like and what resources did it belong to them? Someone can help you with that. It's no problem. I can tell the future culture minister that the Ministry of Diaspora has been abolished and that it is not intended to perform or restore ties to the diaspora, that we are falsely representing ourselves and that we are giving interviews as a minister of diaspora. The government has not yet been elected, the prime minister said, so it could not have been elected a diaspora minister. You have it on the site "The Roots", the Serb newspaper in the dispersion, his interview today. So this exposure does not give me the hope that Serbia will get a job, that the door will be opened to new investments, or that economic recovery will occur. I have to pull some parallels, I have to go back to the time that you obviously want to forget. The break of Yugoslavia began when Slobodan Milosevic stole foreign reserves, followed by foreign exchange savings from citizens, and finally the loan, we reach Mr Canka for Serbia's rebirth. It brought short-term benefits to Milosevic. However, the common state fell apart. It was all very bloody and tragic for the Serbs. Economic analysts, we can read it in all the media, predict that there are intentions to attack the country's foreign reserves and that would mean a return, probably, to the 1990s. I do not want to believe this, and I hope that there will be great resistance for both the citizens of Serbia and all political parties and that there will be a rapid follow-up of both the IMF and the European Union. There's something else I'd like to say. These days, and that includes the opposition, there's a lot of talk about arrests. We don't mind stamping past power, but not only her half, and the other half, which will make up the future government, being amnested, and yet some of the people in that other half are used as messengers to attack their former coalition partners. It's not just going back to the '90s, it's deeper and deeper. That brings us to an Ottoman period of power. In France, the markets were never more full than when they were cut off by people's heads. There was never more singing to Titus and the party than when they were secretly killed and buried in hundreds of thousands of people. I'll ask you one more thing, Minister. Resolution 1481 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe requires the governments of the former communist countries to condemn all crimes of totalitarian communist regimes. A commission to reveal the names of the people killed from 1944 to 1946, and thrown into a secret tomb, has so far established the names of 27,000 people. Will you listen to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Does this European path mean that we accept only what is right for us and what is not right for us to reject? You're going to tell me if those victims, those 27,000 names are people, since you say you won't look back at the past, that you won't share Serbia with the Chetniks and the Partisans and, believe me, your party has done the most in the past and has made them split, I'm asking you if these are the victims for this country, and in what way will they be treated where these people are being thrown? Every government corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely. So I can't figure out why the Assembly Security Committees are in the hands of the government. For now, so much. I'll probably get back to you later, when I hear the discussions, talk further about the exposé and the future program of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u486	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u487	I'm sorry to take the time, but I'm only going to have to react when I think it's important to clarify the relationship between us. Mr. Jugovic, I think you've crossed a line that explains the political differences that exist between us. With all due respect to you, your education, your party and everything else, I don't see that you have any moral right to share the lessons of literacy or illiteracy, especially mine. If you think you're running politics, then time has long stopped for you. You're still in some novel trenches. You're talking about illiterate fairy tales. What fairy tale do you live in? You're saying here that it means nothing to you 140 and some MPs. Then what does your four mean? What does it mean? It means something to me. Keep an eye on how you talk about people you've worked with before, until yesterday. I did not leave Boris Tadic before you, you left him first and went to Cedomir Jovanovic. Is that true or not? Where are the Democrats? They're gone. Did you say you couldn't be on the same list with them anymore? These ideas you're talking about, why didn't you implement them during these 12 years of DOS government? Why didn't you borrow everything you didn't arrest for the murders and crimes before 2000? What do I have to do with it? I'll arrest anyone I find out he's committed any crime. Don't move on us anymore. I can't discuss the debate anymore, because with you, they're only turning into one of those same topics. What do you want from us? Should I say that the mistakes made in the past, and the crimes? Yeah, I've said that a hundred times. What more do you want? What, you've been sinless? What, you were immune to privileges, immunity and power? Then why were you in power with us before 2000? Then what was Vuk Draskovic vice president of the federal government when the bombing started? What did we have in Belgrade? What did you replace Zoran Djindjic from the mayor's seat with us, with Dragan Tomic from Jugopetrol? What, because of the ideal? Because you're left-handed? What are you talking about? Besides, let's get back to the specifics. I have been with you, Mr. Jugovic, since 2004, in power here in Serbia, not counting on a year where they were, I don't know if you were with Tadic and Kostunica when they had a joint government. Why didn't you say we were bothering you in those eight years? Why didn't you do something in those eight years? I served you as a shoulder for crying, what coalition partners do to you. You're not ashamed to tell me now. How much longer? What have we done for you? How long do we serve you as a boxing bag? You can't do that anymore. Hit it, hit it. You know what? When a mosquito bites, it's not so bad, you don't always have to look back, but there are times when you get too bored. So I'm not threatening anyone, but you want to deal politically with us. There's no problem. It's not my fault that you didn't find the bones of Draja Mihajlovic in Adi Giganlia that you found the bones of some domestic animal buried in Adi Giganlia. Besides, where are your coalition partners? You left with Chad, then you returned to Tadic. And you're talking about some principle, about the great support of the citizens to you. Yes, I see, there are great demonstrations and support for you. Would you speak this way, Mr. Jugovic, if I had said today that Vuk Draskovic was the foreign minister? Answer me that question. Don't just say it wasn't possible. Be correct and take better care of what expressions you use. All my schools and colleges, I'm done with the highest grades. I've graduated from a political science college with an average score of 10. You know how? In criminal circles, the fool was called this criminal because he was the only one in college. But these aren't criminal circles after all. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With the right to differing opinions, which I support, you still have a little bit of human dignity to guard. Your President Vuk Draskovic at the pirate dinner tells us that Boris Tadic has been issued by some of his laps. You were the first to betray him. Why did you leave his election list? I've never been on the list with Boris Tadic. I went to the polls to win both Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic. I didn't make it. And for whom your people voted, that's a different question now. This isn't the first time you've talked about the SPS like this, all the time we've given you and given you four years of power, to hold businesses, to be on boards, out of correctness to you, whenever the DS won't help you, there's Ivica Dacic. My associates are right. I'm the worst to my own, and those who attack me the most, I'm the best to them. I can't take it anymore. I can't keep turning my other cheek anymore. As far as SPO is concerned, I don't mind, but use some of the expressions that are similar to people and that you can use in everyday speech. If you said that in some everyday speech to someone that they were illiterate, I don't know what you'd get in return. I respect this home. You respect him, too. When it comes to opening a file, right now, I'm voting for it tomorrow. I voted for it, Mr. Jugovic, I voted as president of the Security Committee, unlike your coalition partners. The only other who voted was Markicevic from New Serbia. That was at the time of the government of Kostunica-Tadic. As far as I'm concerned, open all files immediately. If I ever get a chance, I'll open them all right now. Because I'm sure the spies weren't in the ranks of the government, they were in the opposition. How could someone in power be spying on someone in power? That's the basic thing. I don't mind, open the files, but the National Security Council, which was chaired by yours, which you say is by his knees, at a pirate's dinner, because you can only speak in ten, you're now talking about someone else's fault for the files. They didn't, Boris Tadic chaired. BIA said, they said the military authorities and they were all about not opening files and doing things like this. Why are you telling me this now? Here's your MP's club and discuss it with them. I think it's embarrassing what you're saying. Milosevic died a few years ago, I don't know how many years ago. The SPS fell out of power in 2000. What do you want more from us? Ask your bosses and presidents of your party and his wife who have had the best and most correct co-operation of all these years. If that's the case, it's a shame you're talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u488	Right on line, Mr. Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u489	You have no reason for that tone. You have no reason to be upset. You're telling me I'm illiterate. I did not directly tell you that you were illiterate. I said the text of the exposé I got, because he can't be seen in oral exposure, illiterate. That may also be the technical services. I can show whoever knocked where he was wrong. As for Vuk Draskovic, as for the SP, about our history, about us, about our fight for democratic and European Serbia, the best ones speak are the monuments of the tragic fate of the people who burned to death as at the stake at the Ibaric Masteral, the two assassinations of Vuk Draskovic, the Ibar Masteral and Budva, the constant listening to the service of security and attempts to remove the man from the political scene. I don't know if any of the political leaders have experienced such a fate, and I don't know if anyone you're good with is a friend of his who can do such a thing? Your conduct, with all due respect and support for all that is good, and with the communication I have with both your party members and with you, does not show your true face. I believe you're different, that you won't say in the future that if mosquitoes bite you, you'll fight back. The government should be the target of the opposition, not the spear to the opposition. All modern democracies know that well. These are European values that must be respected. Nothing, but I absolutely didn't say anything offensive to you, so you'd act like you were hit by some kind of insult for which there's no excuse... (President: Pay attention on time, Mr. Jugovic. ) I tell you – for all that is good, you will have the support of the SPO, but for everything that has been shown in part and tonight, we will be the strongest opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u490	Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u491	It's all right. I'm not here for the first time. I've been in this business for 22 years. I just want to say it's illusory to ask me that I always need something for you to apologize for and do. I'm a straight man. But you've gone too far because I didn't deserve you to talk about it at the pirate dinner, and I didn't deserve you to act like one. But I've forgiven you everything. Everything's fine. I just want to tell you that Germany was the founder of the European community 12 years after Hitler. We 12 years after Milosevic – where are we, ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters? Do you want to talk about it for 12 more years? No more, people, partisans, Chetniks, Milosevics, Draskovics, Karadjordjevics and everything else, the people are laughing at us. The people are asking that they survive the economic crisis that we are in. So let's turn to life's questions. You knock on the open door. You don't have anything in the exposé that's questionable from your point of view. We're left, that's right. You're right, but you were in that government left where the DS was. Besides, I can't exactly interpret how Canak and the Democrats are left-handed, when this one's rebelling. Here, Canak was saying something about how he's going to support that concept, why I'm talking about social development, etc. Well, it's not my fault, it's now a debate and a major topic in a party of European Socialists whose members you are, it's not me. Merkel advocates forming a market, in fact forming a market-adjusted democracy, and German Social Democrats and French President Holland are seeking to form a market that is tailored to democracy. What are you talking about here? You think it's left to be against the SPS. Well, they don't know about the SPS that far, they know before. Although I can see that lately, here, and in the New York Times today, your people from Belgrade have reported that they are about to start a war in Belgrade because the new government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ivica Dacic is forming. You know what, our voters in Serbia usually start reading the New York Times every morning, so you'll have a lot of influence on the electoral body. But I don't know what it's all about. I've said it a million times, I have no reason, I've shown what I know to do and how much I know to work, in four years as Minister of the Interior. My ministry was the best in the Serbian government and I was the best-rated minister. After all, my ministry was also guarding Vuk Draskovic, not asking a single question of our mutual political differences. About these various investigations, so you had the government of Bozovic, who was at Jocic's at the MUP, so why didn't he conduct this investigation of who killed whom and what happened? Believe me, if anyone in Milosevic's time is guilty of anything, I will arrest him. What do we have to do with that? No one could commit crimes on behalf of the party, on behalf of the SPS. Are we done with that subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u492	The president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Markovic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u493	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, look at the gallery, everyone has left us, gone diplomatic court, guests, only the family of candidates for ministers, some candidates, not all, some who may be candidates for the first time. I do not believe that Serbian citizens are following closely what we are doing tonight, but it is very important that Serbian citizens know what this new government will do in the next four years. Who makes this new government? Well, she's still the old government, or until about 22.00 hours, and opposition colleagues are criticizing themselves. Looking at certain televisions 40 days ago, the Fiscal Council said that the state of Republika Srpska is in a very difficult situation, that they will pay to freeze, pensions, etc., and we now need to create a programme where there will be no freezing of wages and pensions, where citizens of Serbia, to say, will live a little better, and given that this government has not been built for the first time since 2000 by anyone from the International Community, but by the citizens of Serbia, I can tell you that this government has drawn up a programme, that this government has not been put together by the interests of the parties, and therefore this government has 150 MPs. I can congratulate the SNS as the largest party that makes up the government of the Republic of Serbia, that it had the attitude to choose those who are the best, as soon as possible to make the government, so that we can help the citizens of Serbia. What is the priority for a single Serbia right now? What bothers 40% of Serbian citizens. Yes, ma'am, who will be the future governor of the NBS, and this government halts the exchange rate of the euro, i.e. the drop of the dinar. This is currently the biggest problem in the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen. Fifty per cent of Serbian citizens are in some loans. Fifty percent of Serbian citizens do not sleep and wait for someone to stop the dinar's fall. Day by day, they expect how much money to fall, and the exchange rate rises. They also criticized certain ministers who were previously in the government, had one small break, so I will start with Velimir Ilic. Your Honor, when I speak, you must listen to me, Velimir. All right! Velimir Ilic! He can't hear me. Velimir Ilic, I need a little stronger to hear me, is one of the nemares, the builder and the man had a certain result, gentlemen, whether you want to admit it or not. Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is a man who can make money. He may have made a lot of mistakes while he was in government, one, the other, and the other, or the two previous governments, but he knows how to make money, and he knows what priorities are. Mrs. Verica Kalanovic fought for economic decentralisation. I was present at a meeting where there were 50 presidents of municipalities and mayors, that out of 50 present mayors and presidents of municipalities only two were from the G17 plus party, and the rest were from other parties. One lady, who was the speaker of the assembly, during the time she was president of the assembly, the most laws were adopted four years earlier in this parliament. Mr. Knezevic, one of the best mayors after me, I must say, he will run the farm. The man from Vojvodina. Why Vojvodina? Because the Duke's agricultural end is, and I'm sure he knows that business. I don't know these other gentlemen, except Alice Maric, the lady who was famous, represented Serbia, and I'm sure she will lead the Sports Ministry very well. I was a sports man and I'm a sportsman. Mr. Jovan Krkobibić, a man who represents the interests of pensioners, along with our coalition and who has not allowed pensions to freeze, although there have been several times, for the past four years. Mr. Mrkonjic, engineer Mrkonjic, a builder who has a big score, you criticized him for the deadlines, but they cannot achieve and could not achieve the deadlines he gave without money. Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin, a man who lives in Raška region and thanks to him and Mr. Rasim Ljajic, we have very good relations with Muslims in that part of Serbia, and I thank them for that. They also came to help their citizens and citizens of Serbia. Mrs. Markovic, also, a woman who worked in one area and a resort to lead, I'm sure she's an expert on that. Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, I can tell you that it was very difficult, given that the education budget was 95% for the salary of the educational staff. Only 5% had in the budget for development, i.e. building schools, adapting schools and kindergartens in Serbia. What if he told you, why are we sure this government will succeed? First, the man who's running for Prime Minister was the head of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition ladies and gentlemen, and only our coalition won this election. You all got less votes in some way than you got votes in 2008, and that's the way it is. Mr. Ivica Dacic has won the title of the most European. That means he's been recognized by the whole of Europe. In all polls, it was said that he was the best minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the past four years. Some media now do not sit down and then evaluate candidates for the minister and prime minister, 59% of citizens trust Ivica Dacic to lead well the government of the Republic of Serbia. Tonight with us, there is currently a Mr. Vukic, who has been fighting for a better life for Serbia's citizens, now that opportunity has been given to him and I am sure that he will get a good time tonight or in the morning. I'm sure no one can say this is not a natural coalition. What does that mean, natural and unnatural? Gentlemen, ideology stopped in Serbia when the SPO made a coalition with the SPS in 1998. And the ideology in Serbia has ceased to apply when you say there is a programme in ideology, the ideology has ceased to apply. In Serbia today, what is important is what citizens live on. What are the other priorities? Priorities are how to help farmers, natural disasters, droughts, ladies and gentlemen. Most of you don't live in the country, and you don't know what that means, to earn one month's pay by farming. What else is important right now? At this point, it's important to fight the white plague. But not declaratively, but how to help families there are children born. A unique Serbia will propose for 2013 to enter the budget as I do in some cities where we have power, that women who do not work anywhere, and give birth to children, have the same rights as women who work in factories and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the other priorities? How do we get foreign investors into Serbia? So far, we've lost 50 days or 60 days, and I'm sure there will be political stability in Serbia from tomorrow, and a large number of foreign investors will come to Serbia. I'm not saying this by heart. I was in Italy seven days ago and I'm taking a city in Italy of 126 businessmen from Serbia, where we're going to talk to Italian businessmen and we're going to bring at least 10 investors to 10 cities in Serbia to come, invest funds and employees. It should be done by each of us, whether he's a position or opposition. The opposition, it has no right only to criticise and the opposition must report to the citizens, what they did during their term as MPs. What else is important, ladies and gentlemen? This coalition will cooperate with the whole world. The coalition has been recognised by those who have been tailoring hats to Serbian citizens for years now in a way that has not interfered with who will make the government of the Republic of Serbia. I have personally spoken to five ambassadors who have been key to Serbia for the last 15 years and said that's your business. We want the government to co-operate with Europe and the government to benefit Serbia's citizens. What else is important? The government will continue negotiations between Pristina and Belgrade in Brussels and continue talks to help Serbian citizens, or Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. When we look at what the Prime Minister said tonight, that you can't blame him for anything, he didn't lie, he was very objective because it's known that he's objective and he's modest, realistic, and maybe his reality in some future time period should change when someone criticises something that doesn't have the right to criticise. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to tell you that JS will have no minister for the reasons that we helped make this government, as we helped build that previous government but also seven JS MPs will work full-time as if they were ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Tonight I can guarantee you, what Ivica Dacic said, that you believe him. I've known Dacic for twenty years, and wherever we go, ladies and gentlemen, wherever we're in a town in a campaign, I look, while Mr. Krkobic and I go forward he stops, hugs, kisses with the people, loves by people. He's loved by people in Serbia, and that's why he's the best. I'm telling him -- wait, Mr. Dacic, did you come to celebrate and make out with everyone? He answers - so they can't, people love me, they worship me. Serbia has never had or will have such a prime minister. A man who loves to sing, to play, to hang out, such a man needs Serbia, ladies and gentlemen. One more thing, when Mr. Canak applauds it means that I am right, and you know Mr. Canak, when it comes to Vojvodina and agriculture that Mr. Ivica Dacic and Mr. Jovan Krkobibic, together with you, fought that what was promised to agricultural producers in Vojvodina, was paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's how we'll continue in the next period. You will be surprised at the many good things that Hans Dacic will do. I know him best. For the last ten years, I've kept throwing a hook and never a man to bite. Well done. I'm serious. Mr. Canak, you are an experienced politician and I greatly appreciate and respect you, but you should acknowledge this government and Mr. Dacic for everything he's done in the past. Now, in the end, I want to promise Mr Dacic that we as JS will implement that programme on the ground that he presented to Serbian citizens tonight, that we will also work with our coalition partner, Mr Krkobibic. Let me tell you, in 2008, we had 20 MPs, and in 2012, we had 44 MPs. Well, that's not what that woman Wang looking at in the cup couldn't predict, but the citizens of Serbia said -- you're the best. That's why the two of them have to be at the top of the government and Mr. Alexander Vucic, because they don't fight. And let me tell you, we're the only political body or coalition on a political scene that hasn't been fighting, and you're all falling apart, and we're going to last and we're going to last. Now we have 44, and in the next election 104 MPs will have this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u494	Mr. Jugovic, you asked for the right to replication. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u495	I'd just like to speak to the future prime minister. I think you were obliged to say that Vuk Draskovic is under security, that he has security because he is one of the most endangered people in Serbia and that this is not a question of anyone's kindness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u496	Mr. Milorad Mijatovic, president of the SDPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u497	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am the chairman of the SDPS parliamentary group and we are the first time in this House and I speak for the first time. I wish I was proud to be able to speak in the highest home. Listening to all these discussions, humiliations, history, I feel really very sad. This is our Serbia, we need to make it better, better quality, and not keep going backwards. I don't know what happened in 1990, 1991, 1992, 2008, I wasn't friends with you, I wasn't at your celebrations, I was at meetings, and I see that you're all best friends here, you're having a little fight between yourselves, what's going to happen next. I want to look back on what he said in his exposé, Mr. Prime Minister. I hope he gives God the prime minister. I'm sure of it. Why? Because I think this exposure is very real, that it's depicted the situation in which our country is. We're talking about unemployment which is 25.5%. We're talking about a very low average wage, we're talking about how hard it is to live and how low the standard is. How are we going to improve it, if we don't work, so we don't use all these political tricks, how do we attack each other? I'll turn to one other thing. The Social Democratic Party, along with the unions, which is in this parliamentary club, is just returning to real life. The life of an ordinary man, of a worker who certainly doesn't look at us now, but in the morning he'll stand up and think - whether he'll go to work, whether he'll get paid and whether he doesn't get it, if he earns it, whether someone will pay it. I also speak for those pensioners who are also thinking about whether they will receive a pension in September. He's gonna get it. It's not due to one political party. They're going to get it because pensions are guaranteed by the state and it's good to have a state and so let's keep this country safe, because it's going to provide us with a lot of things. When I talk about the world of work, I would like and I want the word "social dialogue" to be heard a little bit more here, to hear about how they sit and about the economy being talked about by employers, trade unions, and, of course, the government, who will give the framework to look for solutions. This crisis, which is deep, it will seek reform. I am aware of the fact that reforms will be painful. We may expect to have regular, and secure salaries, to increase them, but let us be aware that we must tell this people the truth. That these salaries are what they are, that our gross social product is very small and that we won't be able to have such wages. When I talk about the development of social dialogue, I would like to have a lot of talk on the Social-Economic Council, where employers, trade unions and governments are sitting, about all the reform moves, not just post-festum, as it was in the next period. There's no getting out of the crisis. I'm absolutely sure of that. Until we make a social contract, a contract that will clearly specify what employers are, what are the obligations of the labor union and what are the obligations of the government, which will solve it. In this regard, I expect a new step, and I stress that the SDP is certainly ready to participate in all these activities. This world of work expects a much bigger flight. I would not comment on the choice of prime minister for the government's composition, but I expect that in this labour and social policy portfolio, however, the flight will be slightly higher, and I expect it from our mandater. We talked a lot about bad privatisations. You know, when we were talking to the union in 2000 – privatisations are bad, then they told us – who are you to talk about privatisations. Then came some of the people who were educated in the West, in the nice list of suits and said, "Well, this is all when we privatise, we will be better soon." Where are we in 2012 with the highest unemployment rate, with the lowest wage? That's exactly what we've been here since 2000. I'm talking about the future at all. I like the fact that we have to improve the tax system, that we have to take from those who have more. Why? They didn't just get it from their profits. A colleague sitting in front of me was talking about Norway, where different payments are paid. It's far from Norway from us. We need to survive the next four years, create conditions so we can move forward. We often talk about how we broke up like this. We've really split up. Is it the tax system's fault? Does anyone think we're thinking about the extra profit law again, but now it's no longer voluntary or going back again and making a law on the origin of the property? I absolutely agree they've made a lot of money in this period. I don't mind crossing receipts and property. I'd like a receipt that has another 100%. Maybe somebody's making better money, and I'd be taxing it, because if they don't prove it, then he's gotten it in an illegal way. Besides, I'm not saying anything new. That's what's going on in more serious countries than it is here. I'd like to say something about illegal privatisations. It is often mentioned 24, which she has given us in the EU's amanet to reconsider. I think he can reevaluate many more of those privatisations. We also have to do it with those companies that didn't do it. We have companies in restructuring. A large number of people who work in these companies who don't have a future, who cost a lot of money to this country. I will also advocate on behalf of the SDP and trade unions that these companies will be put into operation as soon as possible and that the state will help as much as it can. So that you don't think that we're going to get out of this situation just to tax something, to do something, nothing will get us out unless we improve the real sector, what it produces for exports, small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperatives, everything we have. Our potentials stand dormant in a way that they don't produce and do what they're supposed to do. The first test of both these governments and the future, yes, we have a great drought. The predecessors spoke, whether this government would declare an elemental disaster. I expect the new Agriculture Minister, who's from Vojvodina, will do so and knows well what's going on there. As Social Democrats, we support the approach that in health care everyone has equal chances. We're aware it's worth it. We are also aware that in education, where we have free elementary and secondary education and higher education must tend to it. When? When you grow in GDP, when we have the means to allow everyone to be treated and educated, especially in high schools, colleges, those people who don't have the resources, and now it's very expensive. It's where the biggest differences occur. Who can pay for education, who can't pay for education? As a result, as a SDP, we will support that the most talented can be at national cost. For the simple reason, because this country can get out just the ones who are talented. I also believe that the prime minister probably accidentally failed to speak about culture. Culture is a significant segment of something we have, which we need to develop. We're a poor country. We're a country where it's hard to live. Culture, creation is something we need, something that will help us get through all these difficulties and all this crisis much easier and much faster. Of course, I won't forget sports here, and I'm a sports fan myself. These are the things we're sure to ask to be done. We are in position, but I stress that together with our colleagues from the post, we will also be looking for the right things, based on what's in the exposé. I think he's very good, and we'll keep an eye on the work. We will also be fierce critics, if anything is wrong, and we will also praise what is good, without any vanity. I'm afraid there's a lot of vanity here. In the end, but I won't use my 20 minutes as head of Parliament's group, because I don't need a promotion that's going to be on cheap political points, but we want to have a promotion to work, a commitment to the law, and that's why I want a new government, a prime minister, a future prime minister, a lot of success in work, but also happiness, because in a Serbia like this, it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u498	Thank you. The word came from Mr Miroslav Markicevic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u499	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow Members of the People and all the citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, and I believe there are plenty of you. Speaking on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I'm going to be very brief, because I don't think this is the time or... for big stories, but time to work and work. I am free, Mr. Prime Minister, to use the time you will take with the government of the Republic of Serbia, to compare with 1991 or 1992, or in 1999, according to how the people live, if of course we exempt those families who lost loved ones in the bombing of our country in 1999. We've all been in an election campaign, and every day we meet desperate citizens. So, the situation of the crisis that has come to our country, unfortunately, may not be visible at first sight. We also see people who live well, perhaps we and some of us belong to that class, we see in the streets of Belgrade and the streets of our cities and modern cars, and expensive cars, but I expect Mr. President, I can tell you so, since you will almost certainly be elected Prime Minister to try, you will be the most responsible for what I say, to see a little more, let me say invisible people, not to turn our heads from them. Let's not fool ourselves, at least 30% of Serbian citizens are on the verge, and literally on the verge of existence. It's about the head. I expect and dare, as I will speak very briefly, and so will New Serbia in the coming period to give you one proposal tonight, I hope you will not take that as my pretentiousness. I have seen that you intend that since there will be no more ministries for Kosovo and Metohija, it will practically be part of every ministry that will deal with Kosovo and Metohija. I suggest you make the same department in every ministry, which will deal with social welfare, with poor people, that someone doesn't die because they didn't have the money to pay for some medicine or some surgery. I am sure, regardless of the exchanges of the crisis, and above all the financial crisis that governs our country and deficit in the budget, that there are enough resources and that all of you, your fellow ministers and you as Prime Minister, will make it not happen in 2009, which was the most native year in Serbia's history, so gave birth to a praise to God that year, and that year the poverty threshold for many of our fellow citizens has been skipped, i.e. the number of poor and hungry has increased. I am sure that this government, in the largest number of measures that you have proposed in your Expose, will succeed, above all from your statements, and also from the president of New Serbia that we gave to your government, is certain that he will be a good associate, and even if not the best, then one of the best ministers, and there is no reason to be otherwise, was already in two governments. I'm sure you'll succeed because of what you said was your life's chance. So, you've taken a huge political risk, it's true that parties exist to win power, to be ministers, to be presidents, but at this point it's not very grateful to take over. There's nothing left for you but to succeed, perhaps the cynics will tell you and it won't be difficult for you to account for the results of some resors in the last government. So much I can't understand the opposition colleagues, of course I don't want to mention the names or the parties, who can now criticise some human resources they've worked with and co-operated with yesterday and conspired them into the stars and shared good and evil together. I believe this government will be much more complex and unique. Believe that people have lost hope of getting better, and I believe that our country still has natural and financial resources and resources to help the poorest, the sickest and the most dense people first. I welcome the special decision made by the prime minister in the exposé, it is about our oldest citizens who are powerless to change something in their lives, so they depend on their pensions. I would like to remind some that New Serbia, four years ago, proposed to the then finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, that the lowest pensions increase, and that pensions increase at a rate similar to the cost of living. She was and she accepted it, but I guess for some reason, maybe there wasn't enough money, so it didn't come true. NS as a Parliament club where you will have sincere associates, we will support the government, we will give amendments, some time we will criticise you when you deserve it, and I would like to remind you all here that, regardless of the number of MPs who owns the NS Parliament Club, that we have been very constructive in the last session, and for this reason, the ministers in the past government, listen well, accepted the largest number of amendments on the part of the NS proposal. We're going to do this next session, and in the sergeant's sessions, with the belief that we believe that, honestly, as far as we know and as much as we're preparing for the sessions, we want to help all the ministers in the government, and especially the prime minister, as the most responsible man, to be as successful as possible, so I repeat, you if you're doomed to succeed. The situation of the crisis, perhaps I couldn't believe in the campaign and these two or three months, in some way pause that we didn't work here in Parliament, talking to ordinary citizens of Serbia, so I expect, apart from these drawn, large, strategic directions that the Government has, to immediately help you as well as who God knows you, you know the poorest people and the sickest. With this recommendation, I wish you and I am very glad that you are calling on the Lord God, for me it means also very important, Mr. Dacic, a reason to succeed. All the best of NS, we'll help as much as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u500	The president of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr Jovanovic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u501	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Dacic. This isn't the right time for this debate, but you chose it yourself. We couldn't influence something like that. You said a lot in your exposé. I need to tell you what's most important to me. One half sentence, dilemma. What do we Serbs want? What is the goal of our generation and how will we achieve it? I don't think you've said anything that's epochally new. I've said it so many times before me and before you. There's a difference between what we said in the campaign and what you're saying as a prime minister. You Mr. Daciju, like us, have no right to this dilemma. You have an obligation to give an answer. That's what you didn't do. I don't think it's your intention to avoid responsibility, but I think the biggest mistake is, in fact, in that half sentence and that question without an answer. If you do not have the strength to tell Serbia the truth now, or if you assume that you will achieve your plan by saving society from the truth, then you are making a mistake, because from the truth Serbia cannot and should no longer run away, and no matter how much it is to you or me, Milosevic, to me Schiller or The Hague, we will return to that past if we do not answer that simple question from the debate on the new government – what is this country and we with it as it is. It's not my idea to participate in that sad desert debate between you and your coalition partners today. Anyone who shows willingness to take responsibility for this country's leadership in this weather, I respect you, but I cannot respect you more than you respect yourself. When will you be stronger if not this night? When will this opportunity come to Serbia to tell the truth? Let go of the stories of the Serbian soul. If we go to that side of this debate, don't quote all those who explained when and why Serbs are calling for God. A clear plan, and trust first. That's what we need. This confidence here tonight is no more or less sorcery, wit, bickering, anything that fills our political life which makes Serbia in a political sense the way it is today. What is this more important job for politicians in Serbia than the government's election? Well, why are we breaking ourselves up in this business, discussing the government, while society on half the program is watching us and watching the second half of the football game? We shortened the debate as if this was a trivial topic and then, of course, stepped into the atmosphere that is what it is. Where's the trust, Mr. Dacic, first yours? There's no one in this room since yesterday. Everyone has a very clear political past and their position on it and it's completely human. With some motives that members of your cabinet are re-entering Serbia's government on some human agenda I can even agree with. And I didn't agree to bend my spine, to retreat from the pressures and misunderstandings that I've encountered and come across today. I can understand why Mladjan Dinkic, after 12 years, thinks now is the time to prove that he was finally right. I can understand why Goran Knezevic returned to politics through the SNS, and he was with me in the DS. I can't right now, because he's facing me, to forget all the friendly relationships I've had with him, one fair political attitude. There are no such differences between us, but there are those that are much more serious. The key question for our society today, Mr. Dacic, is not what you listed. We can agree that Serbia's demographic problem is a serious problem, that it is certainly very emotional, but it has its causes. They are part of the root of our society, the fact that it is as old in itself as the continent to which we belong, but certainly also in the unsustainable life in which we expect people to condemn their families as well. The sustainability of our system is the subject we need to discuss. The balance between our needs, which are great, and the ability to respond to these needs. What is your colleague and colleague Slavica Djukic doing at the health minister's post tomorrow with a 800m-euro hole? What happens when we talk to her and ask her to organize the operation, and there's no material for the operation, and the doctor can't take us in black, and someone's dying and we care about him? What will your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Krkobibic, who is fighting for pensioners, and 15% of our GDP will be given for pensions that are what they are, you'll have to strangle 13 pensions to pay out of four parts? In four parts, we divide 15,000 dinars. Can we share in four parts the electricity war? What about our school? Technically and functionally, 30% of students are illiterate. The minister can't go from one family to another to teach them. They read and they don't know what they read. That's the Serbia we live in today. It didn't just happen in itself, it has its own deep roots and causes, and that's what we need to think about and talk about. All the problems you mentioned would have to be mentioned by anyone who addresses the Assembly seeking support for themselves and the difficult situation in agriculture, energy and infrastructure, etc. But if we agree that anyone can do it again, does that mean anyone can be Prime Minister? That doesn't mean that. You answer those questions, then you ask for support. If you want to lead us, be capable of this leadership to a greater extent than it has ever been, because leadership is not what is at the root of the ruling coalition that is currently emerging. That's why you end your Exposes without even one explanation why Dinkic is the finance minister, why Verica Kalanovic is the minister of regional development, why Velimir Ilic is the minister, why Milutin Mrkonjic is the minister in the second half of the Ilic ministry and what we will do with the third minister, who has received spatial planning, and one and the other ministry are unimaginable without it. What kind of government do we actually get? A government that is its own purpose. That's what's devastating. The least you should be worried about is our attitudes. Anyone who knows us, and I think there are few people in this country who haven't been able to get to know us, knows that we're going to be taking care of something we consider public interest at any moment. You should be concerned about the fact that you are entering this government during the most difficult crisis that is taking place on an economic scale, and in fact it is much deeper on the essential, inability and inability of our society to balance what its needs are and what its possibilities are. It's nice to talk about free healthcare, but where is it in Europe today? It's nice to talk about not freezing wages and pensions, but where are we gonna find those three billion you're talking about, Mr. Dinkic? When we find them, they'll be enough so we can pay that 15,000 in one month, not three. Mr. Markovic, there will be no money, let's say, for the education of those who need additional education, for the training of professors, for the development of universities, for secondary education, for primary education. It won't be, because we're not ready to face the truth. Why should we judge the way we've heard it here so many times in the last few days? Would we be in the same government if you hadn't decided to take your historic chance? Well, they would, because we couldn't get away from that kind of responsibility. If I were in that government, now there's no point in talking about it. I certainly think that what's happening today is that at least it's equally indisposed with what could have been done. What would the DS, SPS and LDP look like? Well, I'd have to keep my mouth shut about what I'm saying right now, and she'd talk about the crisis the way you say it, but she wouldn't answer a single question. There is no new Serbia, Mr. Dacic, without a new policy. This new policy, in our case, is no longer a matter of choice, but a willingness to take on a burden of responsibility that is greater precisely because we made mistakes when we were able to choose. What is the consensus in national politics? We are no longer a conversator who is equal to the other party in any open national issue. Why would any of you today, when we were defeated on every agenda, accept as equal conversators? We didn't do that in Rambuje in 1999. So after this rhetoric in the election campaign, we expect more than one and a half sentences from you on Kosovo. You got a lot of votes there. Those people voted for you. You're responsible for them. They're not for us. I remember very well when they carried Kostunica on their hands, but also Kosovo Mitrovica, when they stoned that Kostunica for Milosevic. Don't go that way. The truth in front of people, the truth. No stereotypes and phrases – we will respect everything agreed by the previous government. Can we hear if this means Kosovo will get its phone number? Do not use the phone number to prove that Kosovo is part of Serbia, but rather remove all the obstacles that have become fatal to the country's future. It is fundamentally important for us to get the date of the negotiations by the end of the year. Fundamentally. It's not true, as much as it bothers someone, that we have so many choices ahead of us. You know very well that's not the case. There's only one way if we want to develop this society. We made ourselves, in the mistakes we've made for years in continuity, from that time on, a minefield. It's nice to talk about twice the budget. But here's your colleague from the Ministry of Agriculture, future Minister of Agriculture. What's he doing tomorrow? He's a man I've said. He'll be subsidizing as much money as he has money. There's no money. What does that mean? That means we're going from zero. Be also the Government who will say, "Let us tighten that belt." A hundred holes, a hundred holes, so we know what we're suffering for. Union leaders can talk whatever they want about privatisations. Do you know of a country that has been operating in economic terms today, in which the state has been permanent for 12 years to advocate privatisation, running a campaign against privatisation? Such a country does not exist. It may be a juggling interest in election campaigns, but it goes to Markovic in Italy to look for businessmen. What about those in Serbia? Are we going to create them? How many people in Zrenjanin used to work? Today it's 35-40 grand without a job. Right? To a pensioner, one employee in Serbia. The unemployment rate is 25%. That's the subject. Reforms. When's the pension fund reform? Can we choose here or can't? We can't choose anything. We delayed it two years ago and for 2013, counting on the crisis to go away. In our case, it just made the crisis worse. Is tax system reform necessary? Yes, it is. Are we going to find the money by additionally taxing the super-rich? We won't. On the fingers of one hand can be counted. Direct and direct taxes. Maybe taxing the stakes in companies. Let's hear about it, see how we move on. The banking sector. You directly influence financial stability by criticizing the governor of the National Bank. It's not Šoškić's fault about what's going on with the dinar, you know that very well. Whoever comes to that place will be in the same problem tomorrow, and you won't criticise him because he's yours. We must respect that institution's independence. There are reasons why the governor is being replaced. We replaced Mladjan Dinkic in 2003 because he was both a politician and a governor. The state union was established, the National Bank was established, Dinkic was removed from the governor's post at the time, there were clear conditions why it was done. Why did Radovan Jelasic leave? Now go Shoskic. It increases uncertainty. What is the first law discussed in this House? It's Ubod again. The fascination with the police and force again. Is that the most important question in Serbia? For what? We will be the only country in Europe in which all parties co-ordinate the Security Service, and he is a dilettante for this job, like me or anyone else here in this room. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, I only ask you to choose words. What don't you like about it, Mr. Stefanovic? (President: I wouldn't argue with you. How do you plan to be president of the assembly without joining me in the debate? (President: I'll do that when I have something to say to you from the MP's bench. Then get down to the MP's bench, learn. You're new to parliament. I understand your party, which second place in the country, puts the man she put on her list in seventh place, that's a relationship to Serbia. But in order to come across our understanding and the respect that, say, had the previous president of the assembly, you have to avoid the mistakes you've just made. Yeah, I think Alexander Wolf is a dilettante for a job he's taking over now. He's never entered any security services in his life, and he needs to coordinate everything. What does that look like? What country do you still do that in? Those are facts and that's not good, Mr. Dacic. You will have the police, Vukic will coordinate the security services, Nikolic will set up all the bosses and then you will, everything will be right. That's why this is in the beginning a mistake that we don't intend to make peace with. You're missing a big opportunity. I didn't know Milosevic as well as you did, but under specific circumstances I had the opportunity to see his character to a degree that allowed me to say something about him. You exist today because the party you run was a serious organization, which took care of the state, as paradoxically as it seemed, with all the mistakes it made. With you the Constitution was not stolen, but the first people indoctrined that the constitution was voted upon, convinced that it was right and good. The constitution wasn't written overnight, it was written by serious and competent people who didn't make grammatical mistakes, if anything. Take care of the state, that's what we need. You haven't said a word about the Constitution. You haven't said a word about the chaos that turned our political system into. Don't buy MPs. It's not a rock on which you'll build your government. Anyone who comes to you will lose tomorrow as we have lost. If you want normal relations, make arrangements with those whose support you need. There's no support for your government because you don't believe in it yourself. I personally show collegiate respect and respect, especially to people who enter politics for the first time. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. ) Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u502	Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u503	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, member of 103, and I'm pointing to the dignity of the Assembly, I think he's a member of 27. I simply must stand in your defense first, Mr. President, although relatively young, with extreme tolerance and no conflict, here we are, two days of debate and I am pleased that the SNS has such a man in the position of the chairman. The tone that's spoken, the terrifyingly high tone that wants to achieve strength and replace the lack of arguments, is not something that resembles this home. Please, in order for someone to judge a dilettante in any area, he would just have to be an acquaintance of something. That contradiction in my own statement and logic doesn't interest me, but as deputy head of the Parliament club, I have to react in the way that here is probably my own fascination with the security services, because in life, they're the best critics of those flaws that man actually has with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u504	Thank you. Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u505	Mrs. Tabakovic, you really almost touched me. If I didn't know you all these years and at this very moment, so changed and turned, at the same time you're not writing a law on the National Bank to which you're going to cut off a man's head for no reason to get to his chair, which is the only fascination in this room at this point was... Then maybe I could agree with you... (President: I ask the People's MP not to address other people's MPs directly and ask other MPs to allow the MP to finish what he has said. Here you go. I think it's a diagnosis when someone talks to someone and doesn't look him in the eye. So I don't think there's anything here that would be inappropriate to my replica. (President: The Rules of Procedure define that you cannot address another MP directly. Can I watch you then? You are still in my eyes a shared personality, a little justice, a little head of parliament. I just want to tell you that there's nothing personal about the criticism of Alexander Vukic's function, I just think it's totally inappropriate, really dilettaneous to repeat DS's mistakes. (President: I only ask you, Mr Jovanovic, when you talk about other MPs to choose words, because if you expect respect for you and your MP group, you must give the same respect to others. Thank you, I've chosen my words. I'm just suggesting you try to understand that. They're not personal qualifications, they're facts and they don't have to be James Bond to figure out how pointless that is. You understand that? So, in the event of an objection, I really can't agree with the conclusion that it can only be criticized by someone who's head of BIA, otherwise we wouldn't have any reason to participate in any debate. I find it totally inappropriate at this time to repeat the mistakes of the previous government in such a way, and then really cast a shadow on everything that is actually the efforts of the ruling coalition that is formed. Serbia should not be a political-police state. And when the party chief takes control of all the security services in this country, and there's no experience in running that job, the result will be what it was in the '90s, when the Dacic Party, or JUL, tried to do it. And what the ruling coalition agrees with is the topics they need to discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u506	Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u507	Mr. Jovanovic, I think it's absolutely funny for the citizens of Serbia if you, as a man who has never done anything without a college, come to the first job called Deputy Prime Minister, to talk about the experience as a necessary condition for you to do a job like this. (President: Please, Mrs Tabakovic, only that you do not address the MP directly. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I won't do it anymore. What is most important to me is the state of affairs in the media of Serbia, who has used everything and what means to ensure that this structure is non-transparent, shows also the damage from the information that these and such newspapers publish, and you naive and gullible, immature, young, weak believe what the paper says about me being ready to take over as a political figure as governor. Mr Jovanovic, I thought that you had matured in the meantime or at least gained the necessary level of respect for something called a colleague in parliament, someone who would be Deputy Prime Minister or anything like that. Your level of conversion, all the qualifications you use can't be enough to scare someone who's professional enough to talk about the matter he knows, who primarily respects and appreciates every man and every woman and every child and wants to always tell the truth and what he knows enough about. Remember that every man in Serbia, every voter is the center of the world to his family and himself. Demeaning and underestimating anyone or those at the top of the country that we should choose today is not about those you speak of, but about your lack of self-esteem. I don't want to talk about the causes, because I'm really not an expert.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u508	Thank you. The word came from Dr Slobodan Samardzic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u509	Thank you. Just a little attention, 'cause I'd like to speak if I can. Mr. President gave me his word. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, respected candidates for members of government and prime minister, I'd first like to thank the President of Parliament for having held us this 10.00-hour training today, and we've only been three-quarters of the time, which means we'll be done in about five, six hours. Perhaps we are in great error to choose a government here, because Serbia will, by chance, lead the one who survives by tomorrow morning. So, we have the candidates' exposés for Prime Minister and a simple approach to the exposé, and I didn't like the task. Here, tell you why. Simply, the future prime minister defined himself as saying something about everything, so he spent about thirty topics in his exposé, and because of that number and because of this approach, it is not seen where the government will focus its work. It will deal with everything and everything, of course, with all aspects of life with the right and necessary, but it was important for us here to see where the government is actually going to show some style, some of its purpose, some of its identity as governments, and to choose a few priorities, as it would say, although the priority is one thing, but it is possible to disproportionately understand that it is several topics, where it will actually work most and thus try to solve many and other problems, since some major problems involve solving minor problems, then smaller problems should not be discussed in this situation. We had a chance to read a coalition agreement where it says everything about something and that's fine. However, in the exposé we expected, however, so let me say, one better focus on important issues, and not all of them are equally important, you'll agree, some are terribly important, some are less important, they're all important and not equally, to the same extent. In addition, this exposé is full of incompatible things, full of contradictions, full of things that can't be reconciled to each other and that can't go together. I think you will not succeed, Mr Dacic, and that, as the people would say, is God's father. I'll just mention a few of these contradictions, I think there's a lot more, but enough is enough, so I don't waste my time, to mention a few. For example, you cannot enter the EU, that is not the case, you cannot begin accession negotiations unless you recognise Kosovo and Metohija. Those two things don't go together. Simply, the past government had a slogan -- both Kosovo and the European Union, breaking down on the slogan as a sprawl boat. As for the last government, still the government of the present, it has not taken an important step in any of the other things, because these are contradictory things. You need to define yourself for one. Another such contradiction is that you cannot develop good neighbourly relations in this region, as you say, with respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity. That's what you said and that's what it says. You can develop relations in the region, even somewhat good neighbourly, but you cannot respect sovereignty and territorial integrity because most of the countries in the region have recognised KIM. It doesn't go together. Then, you cannot, as you say, develop a relationship within Serbia with Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina in particular, with respect both the Constitution and the Statute. It's not working. The statutes are unconstitutional. It has not yet been declared unconstitutional, but has been unconstitutionally declared by 22 provisions of the Law on Jurisdiction and the direct consequence and the Statute in the relevant provisions will be declared unconstitutional. So you can respect either the Constitution or the Statute in relations with Vojvodina, until the new Statute is made, of course. That'll have to come on the agenda. It's another contradiction. You cannot, Mr Dachuću, develop agriculture and make it, as you say, a strategy for exporting, an export strategy for agriculture, and to meet the requirement of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, for Serbia to lower its customs duties on imports of agricultural products from the European Union to zero by 2014. It just doesn't go with each other. You can do either one or the other. Maybe I'll have more time to say about it, only now I'm listing contradictions in your Exposé. Finally, you can't, I won't cooperate with it anymore, as you say, with all the countries of the world, of course, it's just one, how can I say, metaphor, you mean that the country will be open to co-operation with everyone in the world, and to that extent you're bonding with one half of the globe, through the European Union's strategy. The European Union was once an alternative to the whole world, now it's up to the West and Western politics, and that's its periphery. These are things that simply don't go with each other and you'll have to practice, you'll see, define one or the other. That's why this exposé, in addition to this fundamental remark, suffers from some terrible contradictions, and I think it's also the consequence of your original commitment to say something about everything. Now I'm going to talk a little bit more about a few topics, how much time does it allow me? First, I will pay attention to this attitude towards the EU and this country's long-term strategy, of course, that if I can say so, my strategy, my development, is bound by fate, strategy and the development of this international organisation or the supranational community, however you wish. I don't know if you've had anyone who's prepared you for that part of the report, not everyone can know everything, it's understood, but simply the Government of the whole, and will also be the Deputy Prime Minister for the area and the offices, will have to start to deal with the EU, what's really been happening in it for the last few years. The European Union has become our policy for four to five years an immovable goal, a goal that does not change at all. That goal stands somewhere on the horizon and it is what it is, as if someone stopped the sun at one point when it's coming down below the horizon and now it's standing there. It's just that things happen so dramatically, that the state has to react one way or another. Of course, I can't talk about your program, because there are only indications of something like that here, but at the level of the signs, the symptoms are exactly like this. The European Union is located, the largest number of EU countries are in the economic recession. The largest number of EU countries is in high public debt. So not only Greece, Spain, Italy, but Germany and France and these more developed countries. The total debt of EU member states is close to 10,000 billion euros today. The European Union does not know how to get out of these problems, it has lost its efficiency in action. I will remind you that a single stability agreement was signed in March of the month, and already in June of the month it was called into question. A completely different strategy took place within the EU, because the President of France said - not savings and not fiscal discipline, but development, and made a gift in March throughout the structure. They, therefore, have difficult problems and a necessary situation to deal with themselves. Do you know where Serbia is with them? Well, who are they to us on that horizon, an immovable target that can never be reached. Don't have an illusion of the fact that some of the appliances there are dealing with Serbia's large structures. These are small appliances within the Enlargement Committee. They are actually holding on to their illusions, and above all to us, that the EU continues to lead the same policy towards candidates and countries that want to join, as it used to be, ten or fifteen years ago. No, it's a completely different function of these structures. It is a function actually to maintain the status quo and that these countries do not start to think about themselves and their fate within this great accession strategy and later accession. We already have big consequences here. One of these consequences is, it's now a coincidence with one of your programming orientations around the economy sector, which we're going to develop the most. You're talking about agriculture, food production, energy and infrastructure, like some of the four largest sectors. If you are willing to take this seriously, you cannot actually implement those provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which actually means the restriction of Serbia's customs policy. Even though it seemed possible seven, eight or ten years ago, it's not now. If you focus on subsidising agriculture and making it a sufficient development branch that will have a lot of export surpluses, you will not be able to export to the EU, because it has cheap agricultural products and you will not be competitive. You will only be able to export where your agricultural products are sought. Today, Russia is clearly such a country. If you continue with this policy without taking care of what is happening in the EU, you will actually come into a jam and you will not produce any agricultural products, because with the customs duty zero you will experience that their cheap products flood our market, and then you will not be able to export it. Your whole concept is falling into the water. Why? Because you just haven't seriously studied this problem. There are other many consequences. The largest, of course, is with Kosovo and Metohija. I'm going to talk about it in the end, how much time I have left, although I'm going to watch it be a little bit more because it's a very important topic. You have a problem with investment and investment. Today, the EU has a problem supplying that stabilisation fund or the stabilisation mechanism. The money that was provided for that contract that I just mentioned, that's $500 billion, they can't fill it. Now they are asking for help from countries that would not have been expected five or ten years ago, such as China, Russia, etc. They have big problems with money, with investments, with their debts, with investments in their space, and don't expect any money to come here. We made a plan with IPA funds. These plans are already not being implemented as they were projected three or four years ago. We're going to get twelve- thirteen years as much as before, when we didn't have the right to three components that we got right when we became a candidate. Keep that in mind. The stagnation should be one indicator of where we're going. The question is, after 13 years, what's going to happen to those funds, given this financial crisis I'm talking about. So that's one thing really, it just seems to me, a blind strategy to attach itself to one structure and to trade policy and to investment, not to talk about security foreign policy orientation and a lot of other things. I'm not saying that the EU has been put in an ad act. It must be a role model for us in many of our reforms, in standardisations, but this project needs to be reconsidered by this agreement and that's the topic for this government, if it wants to work seriously. The second topic is foreign policy. It's one of the topics I'm going to talk about and I think it'd be better if you focused a little more on your exposé. In fact, today the world is very connected and foreign policy is simply, how can I say, an integral part and an internal policy. It has so much effect on internal relations, it has to be handled very carefully. Today the world has taken another course than the direction of this government's strategy. You're still focusing on that west side, where actually the near future of the world, by chance, won't be centered. You've had to pay attention to new phenomena and trends in the world, to new countries that are also economically strong, and also to safety independence, which is very interesting to all of us from the point of view of our country's interest. Those countries are enough. They're five, six, seven. They are now increasingly playing a very important role in world policies both in financial and commercial and security, and I see no reason why this foreign policy would not diversify and why, for reasons of the country's interest, it would not openly turn to all those with whom we can co-operate. You have to balance foreign policy against the current government. It was an unbalanced foreign policy facing 90% of one side of the world. Today, the situation is completely different and that is why I am speaking in relation to these remarks. Finally, what's the most important question of the state and who you couldn't pay more attention to than two, three sentences, just as much as you devoted to the coalition agreement because you had a very extensive exposé with a lot of themes, is KIM. You said that you would continue the dialogue, that you would do everything to make sure that KiM people live peacefully, that the Serbian church normally works, that they restore monuments of culture and worship, etc. These aren't concrete things and they're not things that point to some serious policy, at least at the level of what you wrote and what you said today. I can't charge you in advance and criticize you. Still, it will be the most important thing for us to know how you will conduct your policy. What we're talking about today is going to be a topic for next year's, months and years, so we're going to see a detail of how it works. At the level of what you've said today, it seems to me to be one deviation from that finding that you've said and as a transporter of Expose that this is the most difficult and most important state issue. This does not follow either from the coalition agreement or from your text. If you're going to continue this dialogue, you have seven finals, so-called agreed conclusions, although God knows what it is, but you also have some government regulations that need to be implemented. If it continues in the area of telecommunications and energy, then you will have the same problem Borko Stefanovic faced as a participant in the dialogue. I just can't believe you're going to do it as elegantly and easily as he did. You will face the ultimatums there, as was the previous negotiator, and not the ultimatums, but the finished texts. In fact, these agreed conclusions are the papers they received, the Pristina and the Belgrade sides, as ready texts. They don't look anything like anything, they have no form, no political, no legal, but that's why our government has passed four or five regulations to implement them. I can tell you, if you don't know, maybe you know, and maybe I'm knocking on an open door, there's already a procedure for one of these regulations, for the Freedom of Movement Regulation before the Constitutional Court of Serbia. The procedure was not initiated by the DSS, but intends to initiate proceedings on other regulations, or perhaps on that. Namely, that thing is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The regulation serves to implement laws, or international agreements, or international contracts, rather than to implement some undefined papers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our actions before the Constitutional Court of Serbia have usually gone well, lately especially and make sure that this decision taken by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of Vojvodina is not written in haste and is not written at the time of this government's interregnum. If you read the text carefully of the 70 pages, you will see that it has been very legally done and that it has obviously been done much earlier. Maybe it's a moment of free breathing and some freedom in this vacuum, the motives are to make that decision right now as others do, but it doesn't matter. We're simply going to offer you, as I say, an elegant exit from this difficult negotiation situation. Because that dialogue actually means accepting an independent Kosovo. All points in their content mean in fact that our citizens there will have to live by the laws of the false state of Kosovo, that they will have to extract their documents, that they will have to appear neatly at the border when they import and export or when they move freely, they will not be able to move freely, but will give IDs to police and customs authorities, and all this is terrible and all at the level of movement. If you finish this job, you will finish the job of the previous government, and that job was to recognise Kosovo and Metohija de facto to the end. It's your only condition for getting a date for accession negotiations. So it's the only condition of conditions. Those terms you mention in your document they still exist but are far behind this most important. Because of all this, I will conclude with this sentence, since we have discussed the ministry law and we have not accepted it, we have as you see very serious objections to the exposures, therefore, to what the government will do to the DSS, or its parliamentary club will vote against when it is time to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u510	Thank you. The right to replica has a Mr. Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been thinking and I would certainly stay silent and not answer to Cedomir Jovanovic, it would simply make no sense if Cedomir Jovanovic was known for his high education and for the great expertise of someone he calls a dilettante, it is best to remain silent. But I am forced to point out several facts first of all to this expert in Serbian political thoughts and various forms of consciousness because of the brutal attack on Yorvanka Tabakovic, because he allowed himself to have a woman who, unlike him, bathe in the Mediterranean sun in salt water and return and leave small planes, work here in the National Assembly and work hard for the citizens of Serbia. I'd just tell that great expert that we're all dilettantes for him and that he's absolutely right when he says it. With so little knowledge, with so little education, with so little content in every respect, so many times raise the tone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so many times teach someone, only Cedomir Jovanovic can. But our people say in fear are big eyes. They're here tonight, and I'd like to point out to that gentleman that you don't choose any service and no bosses. Maybe it's out of a lot of planning, maybe something happened to him, so he thought it wasn't the government that's being chosen tonight, but certain services. No, no service is elected tonight, the Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister of the Republic of Serbia are elected tonight. What's more important is that, Mr. Jovanovic, no one will allow you to insult those of you who are at least a little more successful, and at least a little more educated, and at least a little more educated, and some other things you wouldn't talk about tonight. I am convinced that other MPs will be able to do it better. My role tonight or tonight is something different, so I'm going to try to be very careful and careful in responding to everyone, including you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u512	Thank you. Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u513	Mr. Wolfie, you don't think I'm afraid of you now that you're an advanced, when we weren't afraid of you when you were radicals. In the meantime, you became a man who is no longer the news when he crosses the borders of this country. Why should I be afraid of you? Is there a reason? Because you discovered the great truth that the sea is salty or when you go to the beach to black out. Is it the subject of this conversation or should I kiss your slipper, as you love half the ruling coalition? What's so controversial about saying you're a dilettante for a job you're taking over? According to Vujaklia, I quote, a dilettante is a man who does some work out of love, not because... (President: Mr Jovanovic, please do not use offensive expressions, please behave with dignity in this home. I think you've put an accent on completely wrong topics. I think it would be much more important to you if you were in what I said trying to find space for a kind of co-operation, which I think your government needs. That that was certainly more important in everything I'm saying. As for Mrs Tabakovic, as always, I have personal appreciation for her, with my views very clearly expressed in contrast with her. She often says one thing at sessions like this, and the other one knows how to say outside the congregation hall. I personally care about what your coalition partner said right before me, the head of a parliamentary group, announcing the shift of governors of the National Bank. That's what I was talking about with the Prime Minister's candidate. I think he's the one who needs to know a problem about it. Certainly not you who weren't even in the O.R. Just one thing, don't do it. Don't test our tenacity. You're not the one who's supposed to tell us what we're supposed to do. If we had listened to you, you wouldn't be a forwarder today, you'd be a roommate with your former president in The Hague. This is how you are today on that European side of Serbia that we have always been on. Among other things, and because we survived you, you are in this colorful coalition, with those you spoke to yesterday, talking to me today. Everything is possible in politics, and among other things, let our cooperation in the future, but not through this kind of relationship. Seriousness, Mr. Dacic, that's what we need. We need to create a state, and there must be an elemental order in all of this. If we go the way this country has moved in the past, we won't find a way out of the chaos it's in today. With all the best wishes, which I don't think are controversial among those who appear here today. Wolfie, I'm going to get out of the O.R. now, because the debate has become a bit boring after all your pointless and insolent threats.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u514	Alexander Vukitch, straight to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u515	I know, Mr. Jovanovic, he's about to leave, he's got a plane back to Mykonos, so I understand why he's going out of the O.R. Mr. Jovanovic, when you talk about beaches and this sea, you're right. These beaches and the salty sea may also be sweet water, however you will and wherever you find it in the world should be equally accessible to those who belong to ordinary people, not just to you, who have run this country all these years. When you talk about survival and fear, don't let me remind you of what you've been doing since 2000 and back here. So in 2000 or 2001, when there's no thing you couldn't do in Serbia that you didn't allow yourself, from where your rate went, to get a zebra, to see who you looked at in the way or who dared to look at you, must end up behind bars. Not to mention we weren't scared of your best men from Schiller's, not many others, and never think we'll be scared of you today or at any time or answer you. What you imagined was that you could say at any moment what you wanted with a raised tone, because that's how you're going to influence someone and tell them – hey, I'm going to tell you even worse than I told you before. It may work somewhere else, but in this room it will never work. All those who think they're going to tear someone down like this, just because they can afford anything else they would never allow, they're wrong. I don't have to yell, answer you quite peacefully, and I'd like to see, with all due respect to the people, the voters who voted for you. I don't need you to mention Vujaklia to me, because it seems to me that I've read at least one book more than you have read in my life, to tell me which area of social life you're professional in, and from which position you're criticizing any minister in this government, with which results and with what knowledge. As for Jorvanka Tabakovic, whether or not she will be governor, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will decide on that. On the other hand, you've done so well for us both at the National Bank, and in many other institutions, it's better that we don't talk about it. Since you asked me about it, and not to talk about the dinar, not to talk about the supervisory of banks, just to tell the citizens of Serbia how much it costs to equip the governor's cabinet, how much it costs to equip a vice governor's office, so for that money you could say seventy times to get that little plane to Mikonos and get back. Just imagine how much this money was thrown by the citizens of Serbia for someone's comfort, without people in Serbia having nothing to do with it. That's why, with the desire to cooperate, I'd like to conclude Mr. President, with you, with a desire to cooperate with all your people, with your political party, I just want to ask you not to insult us, counting on you not to get any answers, even though that answer will always be polite and polite, as it was this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u516	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u517	Mr. Wolfie, you don't have to be polite and polite with me. There's no need for that. If that's your trait, then be like that in relation to everyone, but as you walk in here with an alley dictionary, don't expect me to see a gentleman in you. When you set up a session of parliament as scheduled by everyone else, then I, like any other, will be able to attend the session. I'd appreciate it if you'd done everything you could to come to the government session, where I'm looking for the majority's support in parliament. Let go, this really isn't Serbia in anyone anymore, what that nonsense means. I look forward to the fact that you will be able, like many before you, not to test our honesty, but to see how pointless the attitudes on which you are building your policy are. When every man in Serbia has a winery in the basement of his house, you will be able to resent me because unlike most in Serbia, I can go with my family where most of this society might want, too. There's a difference between you and me. This Serbia is what it is, because your maximum was in providing the policy resistance that you have implemented for years. I'm not going back to that past, is that right, Mr. Dacic? Explain to the Deputy Prime Minister that you, as the prime minister of this Serbia, are asking for, above all, an understanding of the jobs that should be done in the future. As I told you, the past will be our most important topic, until we answer the question of how it is possible for Serbia to be the only point on the planet on which society can break its spine, and then change the knot on the tie and board at the door of its party to get the right to re-emerge and seek support for something new. These are other topics because I respect the will of the citizens. In the campaign, at no time did we say a single ugly word about the SNS or Tomislav Nikolic. We have made it very clear in which areas we can co-operate and that we will not be coalition partners and that is the position of the LDP. Personally, I don't think there's anything controversial about what our criticism of your desire to fight corruption and crime is the way DSS Boris Tadic did. They had their victims, you're now in transition on the menu, so you're putting on some new ones, you know by September they'll find some new minister who's matured for prison. It's not up to you, it's up to the institutions. If these institutions know this and do not apply the law, then they will join the minister because at least at one point they were accomplices. I tell you one thing in advance, a government where you're the first vice president can absolutely count on our understanding on the condition that she's willing to respect herself. As long as you act the way you act, you don't expect us to be better at you than you are. Serbia should get the government, get that government in which the parliamentary majority can concentrate. In that majority are those we worked with until yesterday, and Rasim Ljajic would be in the government where I could be myself and would be Dacic, would be Krkobic, Knezevic, one of the few people from the Democratic Party... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, four minutes. )......................................................................................................... The kind I broke up with in a decent way. So leave those topics for another chance. Let me tell you one more time, Mr. Stefanovic, if you want to be a respected President of Parliament, you realize that this is not the place where we are obliged to respect the awe you have for your boss.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u518	Mr. Jovanovic, you spoke for more than four minutes, time for replication is two minutes. So, I'm warning you. I let everyone talk for almost three minutes, and I didn't interrupt anyone. When that time had passed for four minutes, I warned you and nothing else. Right on the replica of Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't understand you, Mr. Jovanovic, I thought you were out and the plane was waiting for you, and I was counting on the evening plane for you, but the plane for you can wait until morning. What's important, Mr. Jovanovic, to answer you, because I didn't understand everything you said, you were talking about some property. I offer you that we would not bother the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because you are a hardworking and experienced worker, a very educated man, an expert in everything, well-read, that nice because you have earned it all successfully, and I am too rich to exchange our assets in comparison to 1:10, I repeat 1:10, and you are not more than me, so that the citizens of Serbia see who is honest and who is not. As for Mr. Jovanovic, your screams, threats here to the people and to Mr. Stefanovic and everyone, because you want to cooperate, but you can't because we have dared to answer your insults. We'll always stick to it, Mr. Jovanovic, because politicians who are more important to how they're going to get tanned by the sun than what they're going to do for their country and their people. We don't have any problem with them, and we won't feel any fear. I wasn't afraid of you and dozens of your bodyguards when you were sowing fear around Belgrade, I'm not afraid of you today, and I will never fear you and you must have that in mind, Mr. Jovanovic. The fact that you chose one thing and everyone else and not knowing what you're talking about since you haven't even established what the subject is that you're supposed to be talking about, is exactly the fear of something, I don't know what it is. There's no reason for that, I just want to assure you that the law respects everything you've never cared about and that you've never been absolutely interested in. As for the dictionary as mine is, and as is yours, Mr Jovanovic, the citizens of Serbia know it well. As for the change of political parties, you were in the Democratic Party, so I would never think of telling you anything like that. It is the citizens of Serbia who judge you and us. As the citizens of Serbia have estimated, we seem to be slightly better and slightly more successful than you. If there was a vote on Mykonos, I'm sure you'd win. It was voted in Serbia and will always vote in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u520	Replica, MP for the People's Republic of Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u521	Thank you, Mr. President. I am a woman who has never had any support, nor protection, nor gift, nor expected, nor asked others, in her life, as the only and most powerful weapon, fought with her own knowledge and personal integrity. Just because you say you've never offended anyone in the SNS means you don't really know what "insult" means. That Vujaklia is not very helpful, there is a human feeling, education, and I want to remind the citizens of Serbia for a moment when you tried to insult me, but failed, in 2008 after the formation of SNS and the MP club Forward Serbia. I was still the chairman of the Finance Committee, at the beginning of the financial crisis that began, they say, to spill into Serbia and out of personal feeling and as a banker and as chairman of the Finance Committee, I prayed from a pay phone in the old assembly building, many witnesses here, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, not to bring unrest among citizens with the story of the crisis, because banking rests on trusting citizens in the stability of the system. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's answer, that attempt to insult you was, you don't have to say it, Mrs. Tabakovic won't take your term. And then I earned my mandate with a personal pawn and never got anything on a gift, nor a mandate, nor could my fear of taking away my mandate shape the opinion and respect I have for my colleagues and Mr Stefanovic and Mr Vucic and everyone sitting here is measured by no material power, money, but by mutual human respect, which I don't think is the category available to all people in terms of the sense of respect and the way it deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u522	Thank you. The word has Mr. Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u523	Can I have a joint replica in two minutes for Mr. Vukic and Mrs. Tabakovic, and I'll look at you? I really don't think there's any need to overcome the differences between us. I believe that people who come to power must have elementary self-control. Here, I accept Mrs Tabakovic's fact that I am terribly incorrect, because the biggest insult I have ever made at the expense of the SNS is my position in the debate when I said that it does not have to be in such a way to protect its mandate. All who were then MPs were witnesses and atypical closeness between DS and SNS. Today relationships are different. I accept the fact that everything in politics is variable, and among other things, and that someone in it saw a temporary benefit for themselves, but I took care of something that was much more important and closer to this moment. On the position of your recent President Nikolic, who in his last presidential interview at the Public Service, asked whether he would make a coalition with us, said he appreciates what we do, disagrees with our policy, but respects principle and that we are the only ones out of the campaign without having crossed the line of decency with your coalition. He didn't respect that line. Four times in a duel with Boris Tadic, he spoke falsely mentioning my relationship with Kosovo and Republika Srpska. But this is not a topic for this debate. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Wolfie, I'm sorry, but I don't agree to an offer. I don't want to change what I have for what you have. Because what I have is my choice and I would never agree to what your choice is. I wasn't talking about property, I was trying not to be funny, I was just trying to show that it's really pointless what you said. I meant the winery, nothing special. I tried to compromise the needs of my family and children and obligations here in the congregation. I agree with most of them who say that your parliamentary majority has largely devised this debate, but I think it is my obligation to participate in it to the maximum extent possible and to do everything I can to be here where I belong. There will be an opportunity to argue, but it is very important that you know what our political opinion is about the way your government is being made and the goals you set before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u524	Thank you. Mr. Shane has a word. Please, just tell me the basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u525	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. It's about what you love about what you allow, Mr. President. With all due respect to you as a young man, educated and tolerated, I really ask you that if Mr. Vukic wants to call again, allow him to stop, that would be the same relationship between two people. I'm counting on this to be a serious institution, that there are 250 serious people here and today we're here to talk about the government, we're here to say who supports what, and I'd just like to use these two minutes to say that it's important for us to support the government, because we think that she has one socially responsible program and we need to hear it, not listen to these things. You're right, I apologize to you once again as president, to have all your time and tolerance, but I'm just asking you to understand that this is Parliament time and that you just stop it. Eventually, allow another replica and please abort. Otherwise, this looks like a circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u526	Mr. Shane, as far as that goes, allow the president of the National Assembly to decide on the rights he has. Of course, I would ask you not to call the Assembly a circus because this house really isn't. Since there are no more registered presidents of parliamentary groups on the list, does anyone want a word? Mr. Micunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u527	Mr. President, I will not address the citizens of Serbia, as it has become a pre-election campaign maneuver here, because Serbian citizens are now asleep and it would be pointless to talk to them, and God forbid they still have TV on and I wake them up. We have a theme – the government program. And it is likely that there is no more important topic in one period, in one term, that one calls on parliament, rather than the debate on the government's programme. A lot of things have been said here, but what's important at this point, I would like to address, with the permission of the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister, as the man I've noticed is religious and usually ends some of his speeches by putting God in the hands of our destiny and some of our solutions, that it's a great sin to deceive people's hopes. What I urge you to try to do, if you're calling for it, that everyone here should contribute, forget election campaigns and describe and show and honestly tell us what our situation is. Everything else doesn't justify us. Here are mixed programs and carriers of these programs. Hardly any voter can handle today, what it is, why he voted, and what's left in that program now, who was there with whom. We've been at a political market for a long time. This government could have looked quite different and quite different from this composition, but it happened to have this composition now, which just means that these are more issues that personally many party leaders and the prime minister's predecessor were supposed to solve than actual programs. It is likely that the government may have time to form a serious program and then come out with full responsibility and honesty in front of both the congregation and the public and see if we can get out of it. Of course, a fine composition was drawn up in a formal sense, because it was full of optimism, solutions, general places, general hopes, but because it wanted to satisfy everything, everything to subscribe to, it took place contradictions, different desires and goals to meet. There's one problem facing humanity, not just us. He steals both here and within this government. We have two world processes. On the one hand, we have the spread of tolerance, freedom, human rights, the fight against discrimination. There are not only the rights of minorities or races or I don't know with special needs or with special sexual orientations, children's rights, even animal rights. So we have an expansion of freedom and humanization that tries to standardize itself, and in comparison, we have an economic theory that is based on the worst human trait, which is called grams. Those two things don't go together. It's going to blow up somewhere. How much anyone will try, which country to solve it or individual party politically, we'll see. We have this problem, too, by being a little late, so we are holding on to some concepts that have long been put into question in America and Europe, and this is being debated. In the government you have two concepts, two views of this issue, one neoliberal, which will continue to represent Mr Dinkic and one, let's say, left or social democratic, which has been represented by the Socialist Party in its rhetoric so far. What the SNS is going to represent, I don't know why it's a young party, I guess it's looking for its project, there's some problems, that we understand it, and we'll see about that. What do we have here as a problem? The problem is we don't know exactly what's going to go beyond that government, which of these two dangerous currents can appear. So it's past midnight, and now I'm really trying to narrow down what we're mostly going to talk about. There have been words here that we should not discuss the past, but again the president, the prime minister, has invited us to look back on some decades that have passed us. How did this come about, what is called a transition in our society? Who were those actors? It was very interesting to me that some actors of our big problems, economic and political, were not mentioned or were slightly protected or sheltered. At the time of sanctions and the major crisis faced by Serbia or the SRJ, as you will, there have been pay traffic blockades, major pressures on the economy, should have somehow come out of it. But one form of looting the people was hyperinflation. Whoever was close to the governor, or who could have ordered the governor, could have brought a truck of dinars, thrown it into the market in the evening, and those who were buzzing – foreign exchanges, foreign exchanges, that change in foreign exchanges, and he waited a month and it was in the form of a loan that he had, then, let's say, a dinar worth a million marks, that 100 thousand marks and calmed down those dinars and returned, and 900 thousand put it in his pocket. They claim to be great masters, that they are capable. Many of these wealth experts were then created. What is interesting, these most important were also in the Serbian government, and then it was easy to use that hyperinflation and thus get rich. When they got rich, let's not ask them about the first million, then there was security of the monopoly and what was worst, an attempt at total corruption of the political scene. The financing of every political party or influence, and then it went further, to the impact on the adoption of certain laws, and thus we became a society somewhere on the scales of the team. That's why there's not much talk here about progressive taxation, about these tax issues, because it goes into one club that exists here and owns, not what someone would say a little money or a little bit of it on one hand, but what nobody knows, or where that money was removed, but of course, who all these people are. It's one problem that citizens feel, in this huge distance they've met, that all of a sudden people, doctors, surgeons, university teachers could become the last losers, until this private schooling started now, so some of them got hired, found and survived there. So, the whole middle class is gone. The working class was deceived because they told her all these years about social property, that they were owners of everything there was, and then they told them overnight – no, it goes for sale. And who owns it? Government. So, how can the government become the owner of a social product? So there was no social property, there was state property left only an ideological facade. Of course, people who had money came because they knew, and great skill and wisdom was, as I described, to become a millionaire and later a billionaire. That's our problem we're facing. The government does, though its prime minister is a social democratic orientation and his party in the Socialist International. She applied, I don't know if she was admitted, but she is in a socialist group, in the Council of Europe, etc., what will they represent as a group, as a programme? How are these two different things that we've been making laws about, say, some institutions that protect the entire economy, such as chambers of commerce, supposed to develop into a large number of chambers of commerce so that each of these millionaires has their own private Chamber of Commerce? I voted against my party in this House. I was against that law. I don't see how you're going to get out of this contradiction that's essential. The worst will be if you go out in a way that looks like the only way you can. It is – it does not matter what we talk about, and we will have great problems and difficulties, we will ask citizens to understand. When I told the prime minister that sin was a naive nation to deceive, I know that Mrs. Dejanovic would be a very approachable health minister, as she was good, I would even say great President of Parliament, and it would be good if our young president looked at what it looked like, so no matter what anyone, any boss, would tell him, would stick to creating tolerance. I was sitting in that place. Many here know, including those who will likely have some replica now, and I knew that the opposition should be given a discount, both in time and in words, with a slight warning or no. It's fostering a democratic atmosphere. We in the last parliament have slowly managed to create it, thanks to the Parliament's presidency, some atmosphere, a team before we had to discipline our affairs. The two days we've had here, unfortunately, do not announce a good atmosphere or good work. That's what you saw tonight. I don't know what the motives or reasons are, but I can see that's going to be a problem in the government, too. We have a problem here, right now, the subject of our debate is the exposé of the prime minister. It is completely inappropriate for me, too, and any minister reporting with MPs and with the greatest respect, the president gives him his word. It is not good for the future minister to have already had a conflict with MPs, and it is especially not good for a parliament that should now play some kind of anxiety. That's bad. In this congregation, two days ago, I also heard various worships here, but we never watered anyone, we didn't throw shoes, we didn't rip out the gaits here, we didn't pull our colleagues' hair, we didn't do that. There is no one right in this regard trying to give us verbal activity, and you need to know that everywhere in the world, the opposition is the one who is aggressive towards the government, because it controls it, that the government is aggressive to parliament, to MPs, it was only allowed in totalitarian regimes, and nowhere has it ever happened again. If someone here thinks they will go towards European integration, towards European standards, European behaviour, etc., they are wrong if they are trying to put all power in the hands of the executive government, and that parliament is simply silenced, or in various ways prevented from debate. Of course, this is the beginning. I don't want to make any permanent conclusions out of this. Since we are warned here by the future minister that we will always encounter a harsh response, I can only tell him – do not intimidate us, as I have already said. I went from Joseph Broz to everything and no one kept me quiet in public or in the congregation, no matter what you pick up a few people who realized they had a job when someone was talking about jumping right away. It's a bad picture. Here, take a look. That's the man who will represent the House. (President: I ask the People's Messengers to be silenced. If you want to create a picture of a democratic parliament, you are responsible for it, not the opposition. You give standards. I don't know where you're going, what you're going to fall into, but the most important thing I'm telling you, the problem with the transition society was that all the government in the one-party system was in one party, and the parliament and the judiciary and the monetary institution, it all depended solely on the party and the party summit. The transition doesn't mean anything else, it begins by trying to divide power, to create on one side legislative authority, executive power, judicial authority, independent regulatory bodies, monetary etc. It is democracy, and within parliament to create an opposition. Some people simply amaze me with a lack of understanding, which is exactly power. The government belongs to the people, not to someone who wins this many and so many MPs with millions of votes. Remember that, folks. Since the whole nation cannot stand in this hall, it has us as representatives, but long ago people knew that not only is the terror of the minority, but also the terror of the majority, and therefore there is an opposition to which the government, which is the tenants of the people, has the right to this institution in the name of the people to control them and not to be made important to me to silence me as soon as I speak a sentence. Where do they think they live? There are standard European, global etc. If it goes on like that and goes into a society where the ministers can now declare, at the same time as the candidates, I'll take this one down, I'll do this now, I'll cancel this, so how long do they think with that volunteering to take pictures? Remember, you never win once and for all elections and you don't know how long the power will last. Take that into your mind and let's create standard decency, equality here and don't try, because you won't be able to silence anyone if you want us to create something good for the state. There's no reason for me to go back to many things that are well said, well imagined, etc., but a little real. Someone has already mentioned the health problem. What it looks like is the hospital where a man walks into, where people babble, there's no drug in the pharmacy, etc. What happened to those Galenika companies next, Hemofarma, and I don't know who doesn't? These are big questions and you will meet them to solve them. What about our schooling, our unhappy? The prime minister tells us - we will become a society of knowledge. What knowledge? We have 6% of all college-educated people. We've got three doctors, two of them leaving right now, and they've just got a doctorate. We have no science, nothing to go with. We don't have the personnel necessary for enlightenment. Let's make... I'll just remind you of your time. )......................................................................................................... one real job, and not by picking up a certain number of MPs and then thinking -- now we have the right to do whatever we want. You have no right, and we don't let you do what you want on behalf of the people and on behalf of the citizens, no matter how you think you're all power now. So if you want anyone to appreciate you, let's take care of this facility here first. Let's help this young world that's in place. (President: I'm sorry, your time is up, just to let you know, if you can finish.) I don't understand what you're talking about, what time? We've got an hour. (President: 20 minutes. It's all one thing, that I've been saying for two minutes and twenty, it leaves the same effect at this time. So mine was just to tell you honestly, the future president I worked well with, as well as many of the government I know, and some are new, my friends. It won't change anything, but what I'm afraid will change, it's an atmosphere or a sense of haughtiness, force. It is a task, to change it as much as we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u528	The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u529	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I will say what is most important right now from our point of view. We have been gathered in this work and in this composition, a very serious and very difficult task. Others and in the second composition were not ready to take this very serious and difficult task, or perhaps they forgot to talk to the people, but in any case they weren't ready to take responsibility for this task, and we, not only were prepared, as SNS, to take responsibility, to form a government, but more importantly, we show the willingness to form a government precisely in this configuration. That doesn't mean that any of us take responsibility for what was done in the past, for what didn't like the other one, because each one carries his cross and his past for himself. Unfortunately, two days ago I often remember Borhes' words, sentences – I wonder if everything that I remember happened. Some statements and accusations are so pointless that some have made the past uncertain, even speaking of others’ responsibilities, ways of forming congregation bodies, and so on. What I'm saying is that the SNS and its coalition partners who make up this congregation majority realized that someone has to start dealing with the people. It wasn't enough and it wasn't long enough to please him once, first, and fear him and watch you fulfill his every desire. It's what's called a change, which many people aren't aware of yet, and I want to remind them of. We are ready to deal with the people and that is our first and primary task, this difficult and serious one. Although they say that people in the Balkans and we here in Serbia are so smart that they love it to take a comfortable and easy life and trouble, and comfort and that level, a high standard of living from the West, I also want to say that I believe what is written in the exposé and what is written in the exposé and these inherited traits of this people can be put into the function of real development, with a correctional mandate, there is no dilemma of development or savings, but development based on savings. That's two inseparable things. This coalition and this coalition, in order to achieve the development of a saving-based society, must answer your philosophical questions – what is crucially determined by man? Here's anyone from the government. I'll take my party president, acting officer, Mr. Vukic. What determines him crucially? Depends on who's talking to him. Whoever wants to challenge him will first see the Information Act in Vukic, which is said in the language of young people, a little baby compared to what we have today, not according to my subjective assessment, but according to the European Commission's assessment that censorship in Serbia has not been seen so far. If you ask me what determines Mr. Vucic, crucially, I will tell you - patience, tolerance and the ability to give in and do less than you are as a party, to gather all the valuable, moody and courageous ones at such a difficult time in Serbia to take the task of doing something for their country, and that is to take care of their people, not their boss, whether the head of state, or the head of the party, or whoever is his first. I can say the same about any of you who are here. I have a special motivation to say what, for example, disqualifies each of the coalition partners here. It depends again on who he's talking about. There is too much evidence that what disqualifies someone for co-operation depends on whether you share power with him, or whether you are in opposition and he is in power, even though, for example, you were in power until yesterday. You have to admit it's not an objective criterion. What, for example, could disqualify someone on whose criticism I based a principled criticism of bad moves in the economy? I'm talking about Mr Dinkic very openly, as we discussed and when we first sat down to negotiate this coalition. What disqualifies him? Nothing, because we give every man the right to change. The change of human character, as a change of character for the better, cannot disqualify anyone to give them the opportunity to do something good with you. But if Mr. Vukic says publicly that, if he needs one of his first associates, you can't trust anyone in that fight for corruption promised to the people and by the prime minister and the first vice president and everyone else, because he too has an ugly experience with his associates, anyone who finds their fingers in honey will answer independently of whose member he is. What makes someone the right to disqualify anyone now that he's no longer with him in society? These are simply immature qualifications that are not even the fault of the man, but the defense of themselves, the former regime or the authority that did not know that he was listening to the professor who was very cleverly speaking to the people about how to treat the people and how not to look at reality and the people from the tall tower of the elephant and to lose transparency for the situation in which you live. What does this government and this government, where no one has the right to disqualify anyone and give him a chance and where he can't crucially determine you as much as someone doesn't love you, that I don't use any other word, makes it legitimate? There's been a lot of talk about it. The theory politically says that the legitimacy of each government depends on how society is organised. This legitimacy resides with God, with the emperor, with the interest groups or with the citizens. Religion is no longer the basis for the establishment of human societies and gatherings, we are not a monarchy and there are only two questions left – whether the Serbian government will act, create stakeholders, or an individual who has a fundamental feature of living in an organized society, i.e. Citizens. The most important thing is that this government was created by the parties that the citizens voted for, where someone the biggest had fallen enough and was responsible enough for someone else, who had the courage to accept a pretty large ministry, the first office, I'm talking about the prime minister, I'm talking about the finance and the economy, to accept this challenge of responsibility in which the government as a team will share success, or be equally guilty of failure. Who can do that? Only a government that expects Serbian citizens to call it their own. It's the only message to me and my colleagues from these benches you can't forget. This Serbian government must be seen by its citizens, because it must solve their problems with a clear awareness that each Serbian citizen puts his own and his family's future on your account and that Serbian citizens are not interested in excuses or memoirs, or in reviewing their own mistakes, but only true and measurable results. Let us prove together, in us you will have support, that we are worthy of the task we have accepted, but don't count on us to be even gentle, but that we will not be malicious critics, but that you must be the pride of the congregation majority of us MPs who vote here for you, as we will be your support in the people and in defending those attitudes that mean their better life. It's also a promise from us, it's a commitment from us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u530	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u531	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I was very happy to see a few co-workers waiting for the conquistadors in these benches. One of them wears twos, two girls, and one of them's gonna be called the militia. The most beautiful Serbian name, I'd say. The future of Milica, the future of all those children who will be born in Serbia and who now live in Serbia, is the most important obligation and the most significant oath of the new government. You swear to the future of those children today, but the future of our children was also in the hands of the previous government, the former regime, which teaches us lessons about political culture here, about democracy. They're saying the situation is wrong, like they didn't create this terrible bad situation. They created it so that we came to the next situation to warn demographics that 1.41 children are coming to Serbia, and 2.14 children per family are needed for the simple reproduction of the nation. Why is that? Perhaps, gentlemen, because you have brought Serbia into a situation that at the price of diapers and supplies for newborns is the most expensive in Europe. At the moment of the baby's arrival in the world, only for the most basic baby equipment should be provided 600 euros. The former regime does not want to face the consequences of such a policy. The unemployment rate for people under the age of 25 is almost 50%, and you promised hills and valleys to young people. In Serbia, according to USAID, as many as 63% of students say they would like to leave the country in search of a better life and work, which makes our country another in the world for brain draining, and you misused that young generation in the worst way possible when you realized your political goals and everything you promised them. The average consumer basket for the family was 55,657 dinars at the end of December 2011, for over 70,000 dinars. Serbia is at its beginning in Europe according to living standards. Average salaries are higher in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Croatia and Albania. Unemployment in Serbia reached a frightening 23.7 per cent of the working population in November last year. The unemployed are over 800,000, and probably over a million. It's been a job since 2008 when you started managing in a democratic way, you, Mr. Djelic, yes. By mid-2011, 540,000 jobs were lost. More than 700,000 people live in Serbia below the poverty line. Under the United Nations criteria, that means they don't have enough food, they don't have enough clothes, and they don't have enough heat. Probably don't even have a bed aunt to sleep on. You've allowed 6,000 high school kids to go to school every day, so parents don't have to give them 100 dinars for a muffin. You allowed 10,000 children to live by getting one meal in the soup kitchens and only working days. You took care of the village, Minister of Agriculture a lawyer by profession. You were worried that about 4,600 villages in Serbia allowed it to be completely abandoned around 1,900, with 1,200 of them the youngest inhabitant more than 60 years old. There are around 3,200 agronoms with higher and high professional training, and more than 30,000 unemployed, young, professional, with a three-year or four-year secondary agricultural school. These are the results of your work. It's beyond reasonable doubt. (President: I'd just like to ask you to come back on the subject. It's too late. The topic is what the prime minister said that Serbia survives one of the most difficult periods in its history. If you don't understand, please concentrate. I'm talking about the weight of the period we're in and on which the new government will have to base its action. So, beyond reasonable doubt, the former Democratic Party regime is absolutely responsible for such a catastrophic situation, because they systematically, plannedly destroyed, destroyed and robbed Serbia and the people. We have been given the term of office in the elections, not to continue this destructive policy, and at least to protect those responsible, but to create discontinuity with the organized and systematic destruction of the state. The new government should serve the people, not the people to them, as it was in the previous regime. It will be extremely difficult for the new government to launch Serbia, because the consequences of the former regime's operation are terrible, but it will be very easy for this government to be safe from the previous one, because the previous one from the former regime was not bad. She was the worst, she couldn't be worse. The Serbian Progressive Party is the main pillar of the new government. The Serbian Progressive Party will manage Serbia with coalition partners, but will also be the worst critic of what is bad and the conscience of the new government. The Serbian Progressive Party has proposed its personnel for participation in the government. We're unique in these proposals. Our staff solutions for ministerial posts represent only the top of teams, experts who will work with them. My message to the government – you work honestly and honestly, exclusively in the interests of the state and the citizens. Don't let you experience the disgraceful fate of the former regime. From today on, we must give Serbia hope, future, perspective, smile. I want to bring healthy and advanced children to the world in a better Serbia. Tadic's Serbia, Serbia's Democratic Party, is now a nightmare we survived. Unfortunately, not all of us. It never happened again. I urge the government of the Republic of Serbia to deal with former police, prosecutors, courts. You gentlemen deal with the future, don't deal with the past. Give the citizens of Serbia hope that they will live better. Give them back their jobs, give them back their smile, give them back their future for their children. You don't have the right to make a mistake. I want you to succeed in the business ahead of us. We can go ahead, go back, go where, because the supply is Serbia, our common country, the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u532	Thank you. I would only ask the People's MPs not to speak personally to other MPs in the future. Here, you have the right to a replica. Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u533	Mr. Dracun only came to the conclusion of an election campaign and to debate Expose here despite the many lies he has made, here I will look back on only one thing since he mentioned me. It's not Mr. Drucun's direction, but 2,500 agricultural engineers got a job, I mean in the best possible way, by burdening the budget, because they're constantly employed indefinitely, but they have to fight very hard to make and make life easier for the villagers in Serbia and allow them to earn more than they've earned so far. Since November, these 2,500 people have been working for the government of the Republic of Serbia, reporting on and on droughts right now and many other things, which, of course, Mr. Knezevic, will, once he has taken over the ministry after this debate, be able to make a detailed report. I think it's true, and I'm really going to talk about it when I come to order, but outside any framework in which today's agenda is what we could listen to such insults, false and political fossils that may be inevitable in pre-election campaigns, but certainly they're not for the exposé and the debate on the exposé that needs to tell us what's going to happen to us in the next four. Mr. Drecun, we're the opposition now, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u534	On what basis did you answer the word? I'm sorry, but there's no basis for replicating because you're not mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u535	I'm reporting from Rule 107's breach. The dignity of the National Assembly, and why? Because the previous speaker told his colleague Drecun that he was telling the truth, and that's not simply true. That claim is not true. Please, the DS has, in the past three, four days, persistently wanted us, all of Serbia and all of Serbia's citizens, back to the science fiction film. Well, then on one click we all have amnesia and we all forget what's been the past four years and many years back. In order for something like this not to happen, Mr Petrovic, I brought an exposé of Mirko Cvetkovic from 2008. There, Mr Cvetkovic read, he was probably only given to read, he said -- the government's goal of Serbia's government is to grow GDP at a rate of 7% over the next 4 years. The planned GDP growth rate is slightly above the average rate over the last three-year period, an increase in real GDP levels by about 30% over the next 4 years. What's reality? Reality is all over the other side. The reality is that in 2009, GDP was negative from 3%, in 2010, it was 1.8%, and in 2011 it was 11.6%. And therefore, please do not talk about unfulfilled promises or, as Mr Micunovic has just earlier expressed his suspicion that the next government of the Republic of Serbia will cheat on people's hopes. The next economic effect of the last government was, its second economic goal was to significantly increase employment over the next four years. Expected results and opening at least 200 hundred jobs over the next four years and reducing the unemployment rate from 18.1% to 11.9%. I would be happy to remind you that the unemployment rate in Serbia in April 2002 was 25.5% and that it was 3.3% higher than last year at the same time and that it was published by the Republic Statistics Office. Because of that, just don't tell anyone who's telling the truth or who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u536	Marjan Risticevic, replica? No, by hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u537	Article 107(2) – at the meeting of the National Assembly there is no direct address of the People's Messenger to the other People's Messenger. One of our colleagues called Mr. Drecun. That's why I think he hurt Article 107, and here he's giving us lessons from some democratic procedure. If I were Dragoljub Micunovic, I would ask my colleague about his first million and his first 10 million. I'm not asking for this to be voted on, but only for those who draw attention to us to break the Rules of Procedure, to make sure they don't break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u538	I have asked the People's Messengers not to speak directly to other MPs. I'll do it again. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u539	I wasn't talking to Mr. Drecun, I was talking to the chairman. Mr. Dracun mentioned me, so I answered. I don't even know what he was talking about or how he got the line. I said Mr. Dracun is telling the truth about the fact that there are so many unemployed agronomists in Serbia. I'm counting on it to be an hour, so she's dropping the concentration. I can't understand at all that someone here gets procedural rights without any grounds, but it doesn't matter right now. Mr. Risticevic here has given himself something to say. I'm guessing he's getting distracted here too because of late nights. I wouldn't want to waste my words on this kind of ground floor untrue, which I guess stop being part of our parliamentary life. Once again, 2500 agronoms have been hired by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to help farmers in the last year. I think it's one of the great things the government has done in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u540	The word is Jorgenka Tabakovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u541	I need a replica on behalf of the MPs' club. I didn't think I was answering, but Mr. Petrovic, agronomies, so agronomies. I'll just have two sentences from the letter, which are circulating in the press these days that 1600 agronomies that you've hired as assistants, counselors, write that people have a problem that everyone, I quote, is lured by the unscrupulous intentions of the DS election staff, because not that you haven't paid them compensation, but they owe them a trip and accommodation, because half of the assistants didn't get paid for three months. From the part of the letter you hired, I read the original, it's also published in the press and it's not right to brag about what's completely different in reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u542	The word is Dusan Petrovic, a replica. I apologize, Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u543	I'm sorry. It is now an objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2). I'm sorry, Mr. Petrovic, I didn't expect you to have a replica. He refers to you as the Honorable Vice President. You're investing enormous energy, and charm, and good work. Please, I understand that what happened here 20 minutes ago, when one speaker of all power, first threatening MPs from his MP group that they had to shut up when he spoke, then threatening everyone here, and quoting a whole series of predecessors, said that this assembly had to be arranged, and then on your remark to speak over 20 minutes, he realized – it doesn't matter whether I speak two or 20, what does it matter. It probably caused a disturbance, so people don't appear to explain the reasons for the replica. Please, as much as you try to be tolerated, use the secretary's or deputy secretary's help and allow the debate to be conducted on the agenda, so there won't be any giving where there's no reason or the topic is exhausted. It is simply a real defense of dignity to respect the procedure that exists in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u544	Thank you. I ask all MPs to return to the topic and give my word to Mr Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u545	Maybe someone wrote a letter. Maybe it's his own feelings and desires, and maybe it's because someone else talked him into it. It doesn't matter. I guess by reading that letter after hundreds of others, he wrote a different letter, because people simply solved their existential question. Those who completed the most agricultural schools, some of them haven't worked for 10 or 20 years, have been given the opportunity to work for the state. Some chairman of the SNS board, the DSS, no one has ever put any political pressure on these people. They had a test they passed. I personally forbade any discrimination to be committed. I'm sure we did one big thing. We'll have an analysis done very quickly. One's already done. I think we've done one good and important thing. I expect that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is about agronomies, 200 foresters we hired, forest engineers. I recognize in this exposé part of the desire for such things to happen in other fields. It's a way for the country to use its natural resources by finding an adequate way to use the greatest resource, which is human resources, and especially people who have finished high schools, and because of that, I think it's good to look at what we've done. There's a lot of good stuff. I hope you find a lot of motives to keep doing what's right and improving. The campaign's over, I'm going to make one more point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u546	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Emir Elfic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u547	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, in his brief address, as time no longer allows me to talk about the exposé of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and then, in the final part, to comment on the composition of the future government of the Republic of Serbia. I thank the prime minister for the very exhaustive exposé and his desire that a large number of problems, which exist in the Republic of Serbia, come down to as little text as possible to reduce the burden on us present here. I have to mention that this exposé is whether for reasons of wanting it to be shorter or for reasons to go over some things, I have to make a comment. It is very positive that the prime minister pointed out that the next government of the Republic of Serbia will guarantee and continue to improve all regulations on human and minority rights in line with the largest international legal standards in Europe and the developed world. He began with a general thesis that he went through and mentioned good co-operation with the Hungarian national community, which is one positive extreme, and on the other hand, one negative extreme, referring to Albanians in the Presevo Valley and linking to the fight against terrorism. If he has already mentioned two national communities, I think he should have mentioned those others, which make up a fifth of the population in this country and the relationship to those communities in the previous period was very low. What I'm interested in, and that's what this government is going to do to national communities in the Republic of Serbia? What will this government have to do with Sandzak? When I tell Sandzak, I mean all those who live in him, and what will be the relationship to the Bosniak national community? What kind of relationship this government will have with national councils, which are extremely unfunctional, and as far as Bosniaks are concerned, we have a situation that we still have a National Council in technical terms, although as a legal entity there is no legal framework for it to continue dating in such a way. It is mentioned that the future government will have an equal relationship with all churches and religious communities, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country, so I ask the question - whether this government will take a position and act on the Constitution and the laws guaranteeing the inability to divide in religious communities, as was the case in the Islamic community, as a major sensitive issue for us Bosniaks. Also, knowledge and education has been mentioned, that they are one of the most important supportings of the changes to be implemented, in order to become a democratically developed and economically stable society. It's a bad situation with education in the Republic of Serbia. She's the worst in Sandzak. I also ask here what the government's attitude will be to the international university and whether it will continue to be the subject of political reckonings, or whether it will enable the self-instruction to be educated at this most significant high-school facility. When we talk about the economy, the comprehensive exposure to the problems that exist in the Republic of Serbia and the high percentage of unemployment, I note that it is three times bigger in the Republic of Serbia and that the two ministers who will sit again in this government and strengthen positions in this mandate have failed in the past to bring any significant investor, which would certainly affect the recovery of the Sanjay economy. And finally, I'm going to end with that, and I'm asking a question, although a lot has been said that this government will be smaller than the previous one, that it will have 15 resolutions, that some ministers have pleaded that at no cost they will not enter the government with advances, and then through bitter taste in mouth and immoral act, as they called it, they entered the government. By entering the government, the number of resistors has been expanded... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. The number of resistors has been expanded to host two more chairs. I will finish asking questions – why has Minister Suleiman Ugljanin not been assigned a resort? Whether he is not believed to have the capacity to perform functions in the resolution ministry when we have additional government offices, or something less trusted to him than Rasim Ljajic, who has three, four or five resistors.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u548	Thank you. The word is Nikola Tulimirovic. Let Momir Stojanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u549	Dear fellow Members of Parliament and the chairman, candidates for ministers and, as far as I can see, one candidate for Deputy Prime Minister, I am sorry that there is no candidate for Prime Minister, if there are guests, distinguished guests and viewers of the Second Programme of RTS, as my colleague Elfic said, we, the independent MPs of the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have little time, which is why I will not be able to look closely at all aspects of Mr Dacic's exposé here. In addition, I am aware of the votes of the MPs in the National Assembly, so that I could not influence much with my exposure. Unfortunately, as we know, we mostly have groups of voting machines here, with a number of exceptions, to which it's a great honor. I'll try to take a brief look at some of the notes I put in the break. I'll read you a general review of one, in a way of warning, one proposal, in the hope that my exposure will affect the work of the future government, if it can't affect its choice. The voters who circled none of the answers offered by me today expect me to vote against the election of the proposed government and I will do so. I will vote against this government's election, as I would vote against the election of any other arithmetical government that could emerge in this assembly and with its composition. The reason is, you'll assume, quite simply. I believe you yourself know that you, like your predecessors, will fail expectations and hopes. It's desirable to say that the new government deserves a chance, but at least I'm not here, and hopefully some more, to say what is desirable than what I believe is true. However, what I'm saying is that it's not all black and it's not all incorrigible and I'm counting on the most, please pay attention to this, to your fear of voters. I'll explain, I believe unconventional. Djurdjevdan's elections showed that a group of citizens with decent media attention and not a very decent programme could win more than 4% of the vote. I'm talking about the Dwyer here, of course. People voted for Dvori, but also for my party, for NOPO, because of the dissatisfaction of known political factors, much more than the exposed political platforms. The party I belong to is in unequal conditions, best painted by the fact that no more than 5-6% of people know about NOPO today, and she managed to get her place in the National Assembly. In four years, if the government lasts so long, everyone in the Republic of Serbia will know about us and we will have much better resources than we have so far. I hope you're aware that what was some kind of whisper drowned into a marble on May 6th, in four years, if you work as your predecessors, it can turn into thunder, literally and symbolically. Don't hope to be the best government since 1990, as Mr. Dacic said in the exposé, but decide and be. I know what drives you, or I believe I know what drives you, and that's why I'm telling you right now. Be the best, save your positions or make peace with the possibility that in the next election the authorities will be punished by mass voting for new people, not like this, in 2012, for people who have already been in power several times and showed what they can and what they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u550	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Let the People's MP Arthur Freman be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u551	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm sorry that there are not many present in this room who have criticised the candidates' exposés for the prime minister. In any case, I will read one conclusion from the exposé that best paints the situation in our society, as it does, I hope, except for the new government: 'The changes in the social order have not yielded the expected results. Serbia remains a country of failed expectations and missed opportunities. Major mistakes have been made, some and criminal nature in privatising social property. The country's huge economic potential has been ruined. We have entered into general poverty and the fall of life, economic, cultural and civilizational standards of Serbian society." This is a great diagnosis of the prime minister. I hope, when it's this good a diagnosis, that this government will be curative and that after four years we won't have this conclusion about the overall state of society, as they do now. I would like to respond to some criticism, first of all, of some representatives of the parliamentary groups at the opening exposé of the prime minister for the composition of the new government. I really don't understand, for the first time in this House, but for several years now, I have been listening to Mr Jovanovic, who, in general, asks every government, including this government, to tell Serbia the truth. I would simply like to, but he is no longer here, what should the prime minister of the new government say to Serbia, what kind of truth? I believe, according to his views, that the prime minister should announce to Serbia that he will insist on recognising Kosovo's independence, in order to obtain some preconditions for obtaining EU candidate status as soon as possible. I would say that either Mr. Jovanovic or this whole political ideology comes from the wrong premise, that the KiM problem is the problem of human and minority rights, not the problem of a large-Albanian state in the Balkans. As a man who has long dealt with security matters and, above all, at KIM, and I had the opportunity in the afternoon to listen to some of the natrimonialists from the security sector, I could say to Mr Jovanovic and you, too, not to expect this government to go that way, because, simply, in KIM, everyone who had been referred, known, in the 1990s to whom you are so often called, is not about disrespect for human and minority rights, but rather about a simple drawn idea in the first and second Prizren league to create a large-Albanian state in the Balkans where all Albanians will live. Therefore, when it comes to calling in the '90s, what Mr. Ljubovic is called on, accusing that all the evils in this country are to blame in the 1990s, I would say that all the evils in this country are blamed for the five-octobaric changes and for those who came on the waves of the five-octobaric changes. It's common knowledge that waves often bring with them something else, because after 20 years we've been calling and all the problems we've been looking for in the events of the '90s? I simply don't see another solution and another explanation, only in the inability of all the governments that have ruled since 2000. Mr. Ljubovic resents the prime minister for why he did not apostrophe, although he stated in his opening statement, that he advocates opening all secret files. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2003, you were representatives of the coalition, as it was then called, or "DEPOS" or "Coalition Together", even though according to Mr. Milicevic, then head of the BIA, at the time I was in charge of the VBA, that all the leaders of that coalition had the opportunity to look at your files in the BIA premises in Banjaca. What he said was that many of the leaders of many parties were appalled when they saw in their files that they were ratting on each other, that they were ratting on their wives and a lot of things. That file review, the one who participated here, I don't think anyone is present, after half an hour they closed those files and I don't think the representatives of the parties of today's opposition are so keen to open those files, because I'm afraid that after the opening of those files some of them wouldn't be ashamed... (President: Please return to the topic. I'll finish, they shouldn't leave their houses, let alone sit in MPs' benches. I strongly advocate the opening of all files and support the government's determination to access the opening of all files, but after the opening of these files, it will certainly be seen who stood up for the interests of this country and who has worked against the interests of this country in the years behind us. As for Mr. Chank, I don't know where his flag went, so try to keep it... (President: I will once again ask the messengers of the people not to speak directly to the messengers of the people, to return to the matter. ) I would ask the prime minister, although it is not covered by the exposé, to leave more space, I believe that in the plans of the new government it exists, to deal with the defence and security sector. Simply, the situation in our country's defence system is catastrophic and it deserves much more attention and future governments, especially this home. I am sorry to have no more time to talk about this situation, but as far as the Security Sector is concerned, simply, all the objections that go to the election of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Coordinator of all security services, the Minister of Defence, fall into the water itself by the fact that the recent President of the Republic had just as much and perhaps more powers, since he was both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Coordinator of all security services, and I do not see any concerns about the opposition parties why Mr Vucic would not be able to perform it. I'm telling you, I could do it a lot better than the former president of the Republic. As for objections to amendments to the Security Services Act, the president of the Republic appoints a secretary for the co-ordination of the Security Service, a much better solution than the solution so far, where the head of the cabinet, in addition to his numerous obligations, has co-ordinated essential security services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u552	National MP Ivan Andric advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u553	Articles 106 and 107. At one point, it seemed to me that this criticism was serious and I was going to answer about our position on Kosovo and how it all went, since, of course, it was misread. The expression is one wish that I think is politically incorrect, which is to direct the anger of the cheated people to the LDP, so every time you defended Kosovo, you burned the LDP rooms defending that Kosovo, but then I realized that I knew the man from 2003, when I was the only time in my life that I was part of the ruling majority under the rule of Zoran Djindjic, and that is the man who complained about the five-octobaric changes, and was appointed director of the VBA by Boris Tadic in 2003. He even participated in the formation of the VBA. I'm sorry I didn't recognize him right away, but the responsibility for more or less everything he talked about is a lot more on him than any of us, since it's the service that runs. At least that's clear from this show. Amazingly, he inherited Acu Tomic, I will remind you, who was removed at the time because he was suspected of being involved in the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, simply so that people could see what the period was. Of course, criticism can't be serious and it doesn't deserve any more serious answers than this. One more apology, Mr. Stojanovic, for not being recognized immediately, but I guess it's part of the service that we don't recognize you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u554	Mr. Andric, did you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u555	Wrong interpretation. Read it, I'm sticking to the subject. We have been charged with something that you haven't found appropriate to warn a man who has been harassing us gangs of hooligans who burn down LDP rooms every time he defends Serbia from Albanians. It wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what I'm saying now is. You know what, I have to notice one thing and I'm going to talk more about it because soon I'm talking, the atmosphere in which this government is elected will well determine the future of that government, and that atmosphere isn't good, because as much as we're the same here, we're not the same. You are members of the ruling majority and your address to us must contain a much higher dose of tolerance than our addressing you, because what you say is a threat, and what we say is our way of fighting for something. You let Chedomir go, now I'm talking. Is Chedomir sitting here? When he comes, tell him. Don't be brave when he's not here. Please take your word for it and we'll take the heat. It's much more open, but this also shows it. If we can't say it this way, it's not the first time anyone's tried it. We're not giving this up because we believe in this, we can do this here or in some other way. You will form an atmosphere of icontext from which we will fight politically.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u556	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u557	The President-in-Office's esteemed infringement of Rule 107(1) of the Rules of Procedure. - The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly has been compromised and I demand that the prime minister for the formation of the new government and future ministers, future ministers, are not present in more than half, and I propose that the debate be suspended and postponed for tomorrow, because this is the biggest violation of the National Assembly's dignity in the modern history of Serbian parliamentism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u558	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u559	Please, we don't know where the conclusion is, Mr. Andric, that I'm puking hooligans to burn down rooms and I don't know how we put it? It is true that in 2003, I came to this post, precisely in the action "Sabbe", when, without selection, was arrested, as it arrived. But it wasn't the military Security Service that did it, it was your fighters out of it that it was incorrect for you to say that I'm the hooligans. It's not the hooligans that are the biggest security issue in the country, it's organized crime, terrorism, it's the biggest security problems, not the hooligans. Transferring weights, yours, in order for security services to deal with the accounting of some hooligan groups, it's a distraction to the public. There are essential security challenges and threats that this country is exposed to that you won't talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u560	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u561	You have violated, the Honorable Chairman, Article 103 of Item 5. - if he considers the injury not done, the president of the National Assembly or the chairman, he is obliged to give an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u562	I'm running a session according to the Rules of Procedure. If you're not satisfied, we'll leave for the day to vote, let's get this straight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u563	I'll say it again. A member of the 107th National Assembly has been violated because the mandater and more than half of the future ministers and ministers are not present when discussing the future government. Either call the prime minister to return, the deputy, the vice president, future ministers, to enter the O.R. and listen to the debate, or to suspend tomorrow's debate at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u564	Everyone's in the building. I'm really sorry. You all know they're not obliged to attend this session all the time. They can take a break. I give my word to Parliamentarian Arpando Fermond. (Ivan Andric from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Ivan Andric first reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u565	You know how, I did say what I said and I have no intention of giving it up. Yeah, it's a hooligan-sniffing on us. The proof of that is that, in the inability to solve a problem, especially some major national, absolute decision of every dictatorship is to find an internal enemy and you are now working again after a few years. That's not what you made up, it's what Slobodan Milosevic did against Zoran Djindjic. Let's think of the locators they were setting against the Resistance that I belonged to. It's what every little bit does when a national problem opens up, you find those who don't have enough ability to deal with it. They say, "Well, here these are, they're traitors. That is the great consequence of what you say. (President: Mr. Andric, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? ) I said Article 107. For God's sake, what's your problem? (President: I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. There's no need to yell. Don't interrupt me. You have two secretaries around you. Really, what kind of way is that? (President: I give you a reminder. You're giving me a warning? What about you? Please don't tell me. So what's interrupting me? What? The government? You are now entering this congregation and forming the Government with your feet. I just don't get it. Is that clear to you? None of the MPs coming forward are talking about the government program, or a little who, but they're talking about how bad we are. I don't know if you're aware, that's what I told you at the beginning of this week – you won, today it's over. Today you form a government, forget about us. You've got some problems. Do you think we're the cause, Mr. Stojanovic, who used to have a mustache, so I didn't recognize you? Do you think the LDP is responsible for the problems in Kosovo? Is that the point of your speech? Oh, no? Then why did you mention us today? Do you think there is nothing to talk about in this country, but to falsely accuse the LDP of fighting for Kosovo's independence, knowing the consequences of producing LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u566	Mr. Andric, I remind you of your time. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u567	Madam Chairman, please, Article 103(2), of course, you are obliged to do so when you refer to the Rules of Procedure. The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. It was done, I can't say, Mr. Andric reported twice per article 107, but something was happening in the meantime. Mr. Balša Bozovic appeared twice for the same thing, you gave him the answer. If he's not satisfied, he's got a vote day to make that statement. He can no longer report on the same basis and seek damage to the Rules of Procedure, if he is not satisfied. There's a voter's day, and that's it. Please apply the Rules of Procedure strictly to the end of today's day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u568	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u569	Madam Chairman, first of all, I'm not sure that this statement of warning was in line with article 109. However, I would point out Article 27, in terms of the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, in relation to Article 87. Rules of Procedure, and in general, by interpreting Article 87, paragraph 1 and Article 2. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure are scheduled for a session of the National Assembly to be held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10 to 18 hours, with an hour-long break. This implies that in normal situations it is a practice to work those eight hours with an hour break. So seven hours of active labor. I have to point out that at nine o'clock in the morning we had scheduled committees and came to work neatly. True, these committees didn't start on time, and those of us who came from Belgrade were then ready to work. At this point, it ends 16 and a half hours, and it's been more than that since we've been actively working, practically, without a break. I'm not sure that's all in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's precisely that the quality of the debate over the Prime Minister's exposé, and yet I point to the willingness of all of us to follow the debate and see what the government will advocate, no matter what I'm not registered as a speaker, but I want to follow this debate. But you can see that neither the prime minister, nor many ministers, are able to be much shorter here in the O.R., and they should play an active role in this debate. That's why I think it would be in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's good to interrupt the session and continue at 10.00 hours, for example, and end this debate at some normal time. After going to the polls and taking an oath. If we keep going, I don't think there's a good will.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u570	Thank you. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u571	I'm advertising Article 108. Rules of Procedure on maintaining order at the National Assembly meetings. It is obvious that you, as chairman, have lost the ends of normal maintenance, the debate on the agenda for which not only are MPs, but primarily Serbian citizens, are extremely interested, and above all because you are... First of all, because you allowed MP Momir Stojanovic to turn the topic and accuse the opposition of presenting the opinion of MEP Aleksandar Jugovic, who is neither in the hall, and everything Momir Stojanovic said is not true. [[President: Please, just a little louder, I can't hear you.]] You should have warned that MP. You didn't do it, and we're losing it for 45 minutes. Stop this session. As a speaker, I want to speak to the future prime minister, I can't discuss with the chair, and I can't discuss the picture with the Prime Minister. I want to discuss and address the future prime minister and state my political party's position on his Expose.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u572	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising two violations of the Rules of Procedure that you did a dozen minutes ago. Infringements of Articles 106, paragraphs 1 and 107. Mr. Stojanovic spoke completely past the subject. You failed to warn him, or interrupt him. Mr. Stojanovic said at one point a very dangerous claim by qualified the character of the "sabre" action, which was carried out in 2003, speaking of the gunmen, on the violation of the law, etc. Maybe that doesn't mean anything to you. These events mean a lot to the citizens of this country. Finally, they have already been evaluated before the country's institutions by the Belgrade Special Court, where most of those prosecuted in "sablja" have been sentenced to decades in prison. I think it's important that we don't make a precedent at this point where it's possible that from tomorrow, or Monday anyone can speak here in the way they want to. I guess then the next phase is that Mr. Dracun in his old manner is beginning to find Albanian terrorists wrapped up in Albanian flags again, as he used to say. That's why I don't think it's the new government's policy. I think they're individual incidents, and that's why I think it was important that you end it at this point. The second violation of my Rules of Procedure is this amazing way of saying or not giving a warning to Mr. Andric. I didn't realize until the end that Mr. Andric had been warned in accordance with this Rules of Procedure? If you did it, then you have to do it on the basis of Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Would you please quote me on the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Andric, so you gave him a warning? The President of the Assembly is here now. Obviously, you'll have to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u573	Dear People's MPs, before we proceed in the order of those reported, I would just like to inform you of the fact that, as I was informed, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Vesna Kovac, did not give notice, but warned the MP that he would be warned. Please continue the debate on the agenda. Mr. Ostojić, have you been reported in violation of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u574	Members 107 and 108 and related to 27. You haven't been there, Mr. President, it's hard for me to transfer to you right now a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but if we're going to stick to the agenda and if we're talking about the Expose of the Prime Minister who, by the way, isn't here and I really don't think it's acceptable for us to discuss the new government and the Expose of the Prime Minister when he's gone, which means he can't respond, because none of these ministers can speak for him. I really think it was too much to break up and go on tomorrow. There will be a better debate and the mandate officer will be more ordinarily. You see, at the beginning of the evening, he was too cocky to argue with the MPs, and now he's gone. It'll probably get better in the morning. If we are talking about keeping the agenda and Expoze, what does the agenda have to do with the formulations – the worst thing that happened in Serbia is October 5th, "Sabbe" has arrested innocent people etc. When someone doesn't stick to the agenda, it causes this kind of reaction and this kind of debate. If October 5th was so bad and if you, who say you are a pro-European government, say everything came badly with October 5th, so it's bad Velja Ilic, it's bad Dinkic, Verica Kalanovic, Knezevic, Sulja Ugljanin, Mr. Krkobic, I don't remember you having a party before October 5th. So, everyone except the SPS is a product on October 5th and you're not going to vote for this government, because this is the government on October 5th. A predecessor who wrote some work and read it a while ago uses the words "ex regime", I guess, referring to the former government. Unfortunately, he used to be my colleague. (President: Mr. I'll stay, just to let you know that two minutes are up. The former government, I guess that's this right here, these are Democrats, but I think that's right over there. It means she won't vote for the government either, because she talks bad about the former government, and that's half of the former government. If you hold a session and MPs of the ruling coalition are held on the agenda, Expose, etc. and we, as so far, will stick to the agenda. (President: Of course, everyone has to stick to the agenda. But we'd better stop the session at this hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u575	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ljuban Panic, and Dr. Slobodan Samardzic, and Dr. Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u576	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(3) - during the speech of the MPs of the people is not allowed to throw away. There was a throw-off during the speech of MP Balša Bozovic. Mr. President, you promised the Serbian public that you would be the government's controller. I ask you to fulfill this promise by replacing the roles you obviously had in the party, instead of sweating when Mr. Vukic looks at you, to sweat Mr. Vukic and the prime minister a little bit and bring them here to speak before the MPs. You made a list of speakers against this government so that MPs of the largest opposition political organisation in this assembly should speak by early morning. Well, you didn't write a burek to bring it to you in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u577	As you can see, Parliament works at full capacity and Mr Dacic is here. Dr Slobodan Samardzic reported on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I beg your order in parliament and allow the speaker, Mr Samardzic, to address us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u578	Mr. President, I think it's really obvious that I share my opinion with many MPs and they, and I'm sure there are no conditions for good work. I'm not saying for normal work, somewhere on the edge of normal we can work, but we don't need to break records in the length of work, since it reflects on its quality. This is an important session. I really suggest, since the mandater has received a lot of questions, and there are another 25 speakers here, as far as I can tell, we will not maintain a condition, order, we will not maintain a good relationship between ourselves if we continue like this and not just because of the length, but because of our own condition. Please interrupt this session and schedule a follow-up tomorrow at ten, eleven o'clock, we don't have to vote at twelve, we can vote in two, but we're going to have a nice session, in a normal way to bring the end, discuss the matter, and it won't be a painful impression that parliament actually fell apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u579	Mr. Dulic has the word after his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u580	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm advertising the same member of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'd really like to give you some friendly advice. That advice comes from the fact that a few years ago I was in a situation where you are today and I think I have the right to tell you. So, we all care that this government votes, and we all care that this job is finally done, that you start working and that the state is stabilized. We care about the institution's constitution, but it still has to be done in one way that should be in spirit and in accordance with what you have declared as a future policy. It's too late now. I'm glad the Prime Minister's back, right now, and I'm extremely glad about that, but I don't think there are any more conditions for us to be able to work and talk the way it's usually done. The government doesn't have to form on the day you imagine it, we've already moved on to the next day. You've already announced that the government vote will be tomorrow at 12:00. Please be wise, build your authority amongst others and at this session, by now interrupting the session and making an appointment at 10.00 hours. That's friendly advice, I'm sure in front of all MPs of the opposition. We want tomorrow at 10.00 hours to continue talking to the prime minister and to propose and to criticise everything that will be the future government policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u581	I will give the word to Mr Dacic, but before I tell you, Mr Dulic and everyone else, there are, of course, 250 MPs in Parliament. The wish of one part of the MPs is not an obligation for parliament, if there is a desire for most MPs who do not think so. We continue to work and the word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u582	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to apologize for not being here, maybe half an hour at the most. I've been here for an hour, and I don't think you have the right to criticize me, given that each of you has been absent from me all this time. On the other hand, you have no right to criticise me, you from the Democratic Party, because for you I have stayed days and days, night and night to vote both on the budget and to vote your government with Vojislav Kostunica. If you remember, in five minutes to twelve, because if that government hadn't been voted then, you'd have gone to new elections and then you begged me to talk to Tomislav Nikolic, that they too would give up the debate. So, I'd like to ask you a little bit, when you're discussing, to take care of the way you've been acting. No one here is harassing anyone. I'm here, ready to talk, as you know, I'm in shape and I'm ready to hear all your remarks. I don't have any problems. Also, I will ask all MPs from the ruling coalition to give up their reported discussions, to allow the opposition to complete the debate we have begun. You're all here. There's no problem. You know how, I've been in this house for 20 years, I've chosen many governments. And when I wasn't in the government, I helped the governments choose. I personally helped on your application, intervening with the then Serbian Radical Party, to have your government elected in five minutes to twelve hours. That was so you wouldn't go to a new emergency election. No, it was you, Mr. Sutanovac, because we allowed you to choose as minister, so we wouldn't go to the election. Am I wrong? What? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I was scared.) What? Well, when I wasn't afraid of you all these years, why you from me? Suddenly you're all afraid of something. What are you afraid of? This is Parliament. Who are you afraid of now? I don't care, you can work as long as you want, I'm in power anyway. You can make another 10 days, but you have to understand that you're in power now. We agreed with Mirko Cvetkovic tomorrow at 10.00 to make the handover. If your government's still holding on to you, there's no problem. It's all right, but then you do it. This is how we get into a situation, I don't mind, I'm open to criticism, I'm here, I've always been there, I've always come to the National Assembly whenever you invite me and I really don't see this debate going on forever. That is why I call once again on the ruling coalition's MPs to keep in mind the time and that the debate is simply coming to an end. I absolutely have no intention of harassing anyone, of working all night now, nor is it now the head of the government to be elected overnight. But if we started one job, then I don't think we should be looking for any excuses now why we won't continue it tonight, because someone's not here. We're all here. I'm here. What difference does it make? I'm the prime minister, and I'm here to answer all your questions. Of course, and to record all your praises, which, of course, are gone. Although, that's not right, because we worked together for four years. You might as well say a nice word for me. I haven't heard yet. I thanked the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, if you noticed. He thanked you for the cooperation we had together. Not in one word, no matter what political differences, I have not offended anyone, unlike some others, and I am ready to talk further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u583	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u584	We're neutral, LDP, we're in no hurry, we're not giving up power, we're not taking over power, but I don't think there's any conditions to work tonight. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, very rare here, and I think you've done it quite unconsciously, Mr. Stefanovic, I think you've hurt Article 34. Rules of Procedure, which relate to Article 26. The Law on the National Assembly, when you were here talking about the rules of work, about how it determines whether the Assembly should continue to work or not. This is not a question of the majority will of this parliament, there is a body in this parliament called the National Assembly College, which you are making, vice presidents of the Assembly and heads of parliamentary groups. The rhythm of the work of the National Assembly is decided by the College. If you don't trust me, you can check it out with Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I think that's commendation, perhaps not for you, Mr. Dacic, but at least for the vice president of your party for the past few years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u585	Sadly, a member of 34 who defines the National Assembly College does not touch the work of the National Assembly, setting the time and place of the session. I replied to Mr Dulic only to what he was saying in the sense that a number of MPs felt that it should not be, I say that this is not the basic condition for this to be established. After all, the order of the session, the order, or the appointment of the session, is taken care of by the president of the National Assembly, so I don't think there's any injured Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with our work. Mr. Arpad Fremond is the next registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u586	Dear President, Your Honor, Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to address you on behalf of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and to present our views, suggestions and views.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u587	Please allow Mr. Fremond to address the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace in the O.R. Here you go, Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u588	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Balint Pastor, head of our parliamentary group, has already detailed our views, and I will only look back on an extremely important topic for all of us – the area of agriculture. I would point out, at the very beginning, that for the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the theme of agriculture is one of the most important for the improvement of this country. With this, the future republican and the province government should help agriculture through joint planned actions. At first, I should say, it's a good thing the future Minister of Agriculture is going to be from Vojvodina. We believe that when we talk about agriculture, we should primarily think of Vojvodina because 80% of the territory of the AP Vojvodina is arable agricultural land. The Duke's is the agricultural side of our country. We believe that the future minister, Mr. Knezevic, knows what is happening on the ground and knows what are the biggest problems of agricultural producers. What is certain is that the Minister of Agriculture will not have an easy job and is in an extremely difficult situation due to the current situation in agriculture. Last fall, an extremely small amount of wheat was sown, which has been unremembered for the past 50 years in Serbia. That's why the drought last fall and in 2012 the damage is huge, and that's what we face every day. The government of the AP Vojvodina has already launched an initiative to declare an elemental disaster on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This initiative is supported by the MPs of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians. According to current estimates, the damage caused by drought and high temperature to corn crops in Vojvodina is at least 60%, and it is not better with sunflower or soy and sugar tail. The local self-government in Vojvodina was sent a letter to assess the situation on the ground in co-operation with the agricultural professional services and thereafter the instructions and the request for the declaration of a natural disaster. We hope that this process will be over soon. Namely, the assessment is ongoing and on the case of the municipality of Backo Topol, from which I come. Surely you know that the plan is for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the state of settlement in municipalities and cities in the province of the Republic. The government is the only one who has the authority to declare an elemental disaster and bring measures to help threatened environments. I think the new government has an urgent need to do that. Representatives of the government of the AP Vojvodina also held talks with representatives of the associations of farmers who supported the government of Vojvodina's initiative. Surely this is one of the most dramatic years of agricultural production. I believe the future minister knows about this problem and I hope he deals with this issue. I think the new Government of the Republic of Serbia should be seriously involved in resolving these issues. Because of this problem, the state is losing billions of euros, as we heard in Mr Dacic's exposé. It is necessary to meet the manufacturers and facilitate this and next production year. First, taxes, disposal fees should be written off and, of course, provided to all agricultural producers with favourable loans with extremely low interest rates. They're counting on subsidies they haven't received yet. I am aware that it was the obligation of the previous government, but yet I am on the view that the programme that was accepted at the beginning of this year should continue. Agricultural producers should get what they were promised for 2012. As for the future government's programme, we're happy with the agriculture programme. A similar programme was given to us by the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, or the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. The most important thing is that the new government provides a double budget for agriculture. It is necessary to gradually create conditions for at least 5% of the republican budget to be allocated to agriculture. We also agree that agricultural policy must be predictable and the incentive system guaranteed for at least five years. It's a good thing you're planning to establish agrarian policy through the incentive law. It is necessary to set out plans concerning subsidies with a wide public debate and to cover a period of five or six years, because agrarian policy must mean certainty and agricultural producers must know what the subsidy policy will be. It is also good that the conditions for payment of subsidies will be lifted for farmers, payment of contributions for pension disability insurance. As regards the contribution to pension and health insurance, our basic requirement is that the obligation to pay contributions by the size of arable land should apply only to those owners of agricultural land living from agriculture. A solution to the health insurance of agricultural producers and members of their families is also necessary. We support stimulating investments in agriculture through unambiguous means. Support and nursing homes should be restored. The Union of Duchy Hungarians expects the system of agricultural subsidies to be deprived of political aspects and the Ministry of Agriculture to publish its details every year before the start of the production year. It's just some of the important questions we're going to focus on. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians has decided to be a constructive opposition and we will not support the government, but we are ready for co-operation on the Agriculture Committee as well as on all those issues that contribute to the improvement and progress of this key branch of economy. We will be there to support every good proposal, every good law, act, but we will also criticise all those measures that are not good for agricultural progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u589	Thank you, Mr. Fremond, and thank you for respecting the time foreseen for your parliamentary group. The next registered MP is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u590	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u591	Thank you. The next MP has been reported to be Mr. Aleksandar Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u592	No, I'm not giving up, we from the SPO never give up. I must, on behalf of the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group, give criticism to candidates for ministers who have no patience to spend several hours in this house that the president of the Assembly said will have a control post in relation to the Serbian government that we will do so if those we are talking about are not present and whose work in the future is yet to be under the watchful eye of our parliamentarians. I'm glad he came back as prime minister because in his earlier address, he mentioned mosquitoes about the SPO. That's why I have to remind him that mosquitoes carry malaria, and sometimes there's no cure or quinine for that malaria. He mentioned one more thing in the controversy with my colleague, Aleksandar Jugovic, saying he forgave the SPO. So, not only did we in this House overcome the absurdity of Duško Kovacevic's drama, so we have Topalovic here, but that statement by Mr Dacic reminds me of the words of Ilija Cvorovic from the Balkan spy when Bata Stojkovic tells Boris Todorovic – Đura will forgive you for beating you. I want to point out that this government that we're supposed to plead to isn't new because how can it be new when half of the ministers are, that half is not there. Half of it has yet to be elected, and now the half that will be in the government for the first time leads to a schizophrenic situation that has to criticise the former government's actions, but only half of it, and half of it must praise it. How will such a government function that, as our people would say, is neither wine nor water nor fish nor girl. Such a government in the beginning can be called half or half, not even new. We have a government that will be drawn up to the needs of not the functioning of one responsible authority but to the party's needs. Or, even more specifically, the needs of individuals who will be in it. It is conceived as a film in which the script is written not according to characters, not according to the needs of the shop, but to actors. So there's a lot of intertwining in the competences of future ministries. So one minister will build one corridor, the other one will build another one, and whether it will be in half or miss those directions. So it's possible, for example, that one secretary of state in the same ministry will be in charge of one lane of the highway, the other for the other one. Let's say the assistant minister will be in charge of the overpasses, and the other assistant for the viaductors or tunnels. Since we from the SPO have very short time at our disposal, unfortunately, the promise that this government will be smaller by number has not been fulfilled. She'll have 19 members, and that's significantly more than those original promises that she'll be 15, so we heard later, maybe 16, then 17, and so the number grew. If it had taken a few more days to form, we might have reached number 30, and so would the members of the government. I would also say that really wrong estimates are that Serbia is hopeless and without resistance. When they asked a Montenegrin where today is that heroic Montenegro, what about the famous Montenegrins, he answered – give us back the Turks, so you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u593	The next registered speaker is Mr. Vladimir Cvian. Excuse me, Mr. Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u594	In a joke, I said I forgive the SPO. I neither forgive him nor argue with him. You're arguing with yourself. But that's your problem now. You live in one of your movies, in the Andergraund. I don't know if you've been informed that Milosevic died, that he fell out of power in 2000? Secondly, when it comes to Montenegrins, this is the state of Serbia. Will you stop telling us about it? We now have a situation here that a bishop and a Metropolitan are being resented against the abolition of the Ministry of Faith, because most of the money from the Ministry of Faith went to the SPC diocese outside Serbia, the most in Montenegro and BiH. We had a situation that at the time of the DSS, my esteemed colleague never wanted to go to Montenegro because he said he couldn't visit himself. I would ask you to understand that Montenegro has its own state, the Montenegrin people have its own state, Serbia has its own state, and please don't bother us with these topics anymore and cause conflicts between Serbia and Montenegro, which are primarily linked to people who are in one and another leadership, of mixed origin. Therefore, I want all the best for Montenegro and I think we'll have the best relations with Montenegro, because I have no origin from Montenegro. I am not in favour of Serbia being left without leadership if all Montenegrins withdraw. So I'm asking you not to interfere with this issue. Montenegro has declared independence and stop living in fairy tales and we keep talking about it being interpreted as Serbia's claim to Montenegro. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is not the People's Assembly of Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u595	Replica. Mr. Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u596	I don't know, Mr. Dacic, if you've been listening to me very carefully. I never mentioned Slobodan Milosevic, you mentioned him. Did that work out your subconscious? But when you mentioned it, since you said in your exposé that you were declaring our country as a member of the EU, I am very interested in how this and the SPS, which gives its representatives to this government, will marry the EU and will not divorce Slobodan Milosevic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u597	Next reported is Mr. Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respecting the constructive proposal of the Prime Minister, which is to speed up the whole procedure a little bit and bring this down to some reasonable deadlines, I would like to inform you that I am not only giving up my application for a speech, but also all the MPs from our parliamentary group. I think that's enough to speed up a little bit, and I hope those who sleep will be grateful too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u599	Thank you, Mr. Cvian. The next word is Mr. Ivan Andric. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Cvian. The next word is Mr. Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u600	I'm sleepy, but I'll hold on somehow. Let's try to be serious, though I don't know how much that's possible after nine this morning. I think the subject is too important, but it should also be said that we have an understanding of these small deviations from seriousness. The first thing, and the best thing to do at first is to start defusing himself, who fell into my eye are these quotes of important people that I noticed in the course of the exposé. You quoted Canes, Krugman, a little hidden Kennedy, but somehow it seemed inappropriate all the time, because the debate that followed not only today or this debate about the government, but this whole week, I expected you to quote Lenin more. If you, as a socialist, quoted these capitalists, that we as liberals quote Lenin, and we think that this situation may most deserve to be quoted as saying that "if something comes to us, it's going to be a mess in our own ranks". And that's kind of what I wanted to say at the beginning that it's just this atmosphere where no one's doing well, and we recognize an excuse for not having an answer to problems. On the one hand and on the other hand, not accepting responsibility is something that really in some way casts a shadow on this formation of government, as it has cast a shadow on the constitution of the Assembly and on your exposés. I don't think it's good to have a discussion in such an atmosphere of reckoning between political parties. Less or more in the course of your exposé, there was no such thing, but all the time in this assembly there is a debate that points to these trenches that stand more or less all parties on the political scene of Serbia. I must say that your responsibility is much greater, because you have ambition and desire, you'll probably form a government today or tomorrow, that you take the first step to overcome these trenches. One thing is if you're going to say it here. That's more or less everyone says, but if these essential steps are going to be made, it can't depend on the opposition. You said, in the middle of nowhere, you didn't know what people were afraid of here. You know how, when the opposition criticises power, and the government is so intolerant of this criticism and the reaction is much bigger than usual, then it's normal for each of us to wonder, if it's today and if it's about the first day of the new government, what's going to happen in a month, two or three when the problems that you have, or the ambition to face and solve, are much bigger than bringing a congregation debate to an end. That is why, more likely, we have reacted more deeply than we should have, and that is why, indeed, the MPs of the ruling majority reacted much worse than they should have. All of this turned the discussion off what was supposed to be the subject of this. I listened very carefully to your exposés. I read it a few times after that. Unfortunately, it's kind of my impression that you've avoided giving key answers or answering key questions, to be exact. Analysis and finding of the situation are not controversial. We differ from setting up the causes of the problem that you cited in your exposé. We can say that from the whole of this situation if someone looks at the side it turns out that the political point or the political split of this situation that this country's whole problem was intended to prevent all others from carrying out reforms, modernising the country, doing everything that has been promised here since the promises and plans are mostly the same as they were four, five years ago, ten years ago. We don't hide, and that's our difference from DS, DS, we find responsible in some part of it, because that's where the government did it, but far from being considered the most responsible. So it's hard for us to believe that only by changing one coalition partner, they've created, by some kind of automation, all those preconditions for solving these problems that have been missing for the past four or five years. That's why we expected you to give or at least try to answer these key questions. If we agree that the problem is this big, that the situation like you said is catastrophic, and if we agree that the plan of course is to start production, start a business, you say that you have decided on a strategy that is not a parallel strategy proposed by the Fiscal Council. So you refuse to freeze salaries and pensions, and in another way, you will try to solve that huge deficit or hole that exists in our budget, and as sources you listed the law on public procurement on one side and savings but without a clear calculation of how much they are. We don't think that's enough and we just come to what I think is a key political issue today, and that's what you're going to do, where and on which side you're going to find the money to patch that hole up and at least fill in some of these things. The future of this country depends on how money will be found, but also on the future of all of us and the political system in Serbia, as well as all citizens. I deeply believe that the money and the way it is located and that the most important thing or the quality of a policy is being spent because that way and that context will define the political order of that country. For me, it doesn't matter if it's a $3 billion loan from Russia or an accelerated continuation of reforms, the EU's convergence and the finding of that money, or whether it helps to make the country structurally closer or as close as possible to the EU. I ask you to try that answer given. If this time, which you have stated by overcoming this government is European and it comes from a few things you said, we must again say that the Copenhagen criteria or the Copenhagen criteria are not the main problem of this country, this country has a capable administration, much more capable than the countries in the environment. We fulfill our obligations in terms of reform or change of law in one way, I can't say excellent, but at a good pace. At least in the last term, we've passed all the laws more or less. The country's problems are political, and there's no secret to any of the problems. So we think that, in principle, apart from the principle of response, it would be good to hear some more concrete plan in solving these political problems. First of all, as far as Kosovo is concerned, a much broader explanation is needed from you to continue negotiations or implement everything that this government has done to date, we on the part of a party from which you, but other parties or the biggest parties of the ruling majority, hear things that are directly contrary to the political point of view that negotiations will continue and dispute what has been agreed so far, so that this type of strategy at least does not give confidence or give a sufficient amount of confidence that you will manage to implement it. If that's not the way, it would be nice to know or the citizens of this country what that second time really is. I think the question of saving or investing is that it is a false dilemma, that everyone will do what they can or must do, there is not one government, let alone the Serbian government can solve these problems or make them worse, neither do I know how. I hope that this enthusiasm that has brought you somehow closer to making this government even though we don't think it's good and this program that we're discussing today is not the program that we would have in government, but I hope that enthusiasm will replace that lack of answers to the questions that exist in this exposé. I think it would be okay for you to answer these key questions and I think they're much more important than this exposé because at least we're going into this debate not to deny your intention to improve this country and make it better. I don't doubt you or the government, however, but we think that by now at least changing politics due to some new circumstances that we are constantly used to seeing this country from the declared European option at the beginning of the mandate, led to the burning of embassies at the end of the term of office. We would love today to know in advance which way this country will go. One more thing and I'll end it. Even though I'm young enough I've been here long enough, I just don't think it's possible to keep such a political situation in one place for a long time. So, I don't think it's natural for the prime minister not to be from the biggest party, I think that a lot of compromises you had to do to get that place, that the biggest party in the coalition had to do some other compromises to give it to you, that everyone else had to do some compromises, some of them got, some less, but it would certainly be the source of constant conflict in making decisions regardless of the enthusiasm you feel today. The problems our country faces are very serious so that an organization with an internal conflict can easily overcome them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u601	Thank you. Mr. Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u602	Dear President and esteemed colleagues, given the course of the debate, I would like to give information important for the further work of the Assembly. I would like to inform you that everyone registered from the list of SPS, PUPS and JS will also give up the discussion, so we would like to thank everyone who has participated constructively in this discussion and we want to respect the mandater's proposal to end this in one good way and for our future relations. We will be patiently together with our coalition partners, I hope the representatives of the opposition wait for the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u603	Thank you. The next word came from Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u604	Mr. Dacic, first of all, I would like to say to you in the future government that we expect to create discontinuity in economic policy compared to the previous government. I'd only give a few economic indicators. Serbia's budget deficit is now close to 100 billion dinars in July, although for a year it is at 140 billion dinars. Serbia's unemployment rate reached 26% and in 2008, when the government passed the post, unemployment was 13.3%. Industrial production only in the period from January to June of this year is lower by 5% and to add a few more things, the course is, you said in your exposé, when the government came to power in 2008 was 78 dinars per euro, today it is 118 dinars. That's over 50% difference. Two hundred thousand jobs were promised, nothing happened. Why am I saying all this? Because, not to criticize the last government, I criticized it for four years and there's no reason to deal with the last government anymore. We'll deal with your government, but what I want to give as the best advice is that you listen to both opposition and experts. I remember well, you were there, some were smiling, some were laughing at our words, and I pulled it out when we said that the crisis started, that there was a crisis, and that those indicators that were brought in were, which the last prime minister spoke of in the last term, would not be reached. Each budget, each budget rebalance planned to grow by a few percent and planned several billion-dollar investment. Nothing happened. You know, when we criticised the programme of the previous prime minister, they laughed and said that the crisis we're talking about, at the time, that it was a great opportunity for Serbia, I remember well, some past ministers, I won't name, they said that European companies would leave their countries and come to produce here in Serbia and that we would develop as never then. Why am I saying this all over again? Just out of good intentions, if you had to listen to the opposition, because when we talked about it in 2008, if the economy needed a billion to two billion euros, which would have been directly pumped into the economy, that would have made the programme happen. Since it has not been pumped into the economy for four years, today we need a minimum of five times more, from five to ten billion euros, directly or through foreign investments or through loans or through joint projects. If you don't do it in the first year, Mr. Dacic, you have to get results in the first year, you don't have time anymore, you're going to have a very difficult situation. Of course, I think the concept of rational consumption with a thrift administration is something that this government needs. Four industries are key. You've listed three industries. I'll agree, you said agriculture, infrastructure and energy. We've been talking about this for four years. I'm glad you accepted this now, the previous government didn't accept it, but I would add a fourth, key branch, which is construction. No building, no progress. Construction when working, when any facility is built in Serbia, is involved between 60 and 80 different business branches and, most importantly, all these business branches are here in Serbia. We've got all the materials. We've got favors. It's all Serbian here. Therefore, for domestic production, we need to invest these four key industries to grow domestic production. Of course, what is necessary, vitally necessary, is new industrialization. In order to make progress in these four industries, which employ 90% of domestic economies and employ, practically all labour in Serbia, we need institutions. Three key institutions we've been talking about for three years. The first is the development bank. The development bank would be directed towards small, medium and partly large enterprises. She'd have a basic task in the long run to credit the domestic economy. The problem with the Serbian economy today is liquidity. The short term is 95% of all loans, year, two or three. No company can develop with short-term loans and therefore it is necessary to pump a minimum of one billion to one billion euros, directly or indirectly, into a development bank. The development bank doesn't have to be only Serbian, it can be mixed capital, and then it can be opened to other investment funds. It is very important to say that the Development Bank should give credit for five to ten years and it is very important for the domestic economy to be freed from payment of liabilities to banks during the next crisis, which is expected in the next two years. They repeat once again, long-term loans from five to ten years with a grace period of three years. Mr Dacicu, the second institution is for a healthy part of the Serbian economy, especially the one in agriculture, especially the export-oriented one. For that part, the healthier part of the Serbian economy, we need an export bank, because today we cannot keep up with exports to the EU unless the export bank gives such incentives and financial services to export banks in other European countries. Of course, in agriculture we have to do this, you stated, to increase the budget twice, but of course, we cannot allow European producers present on our market, completely or partially today, and since 1 January 2014 they will be fully present, have subsidies 10 and 15 times higher than our agricultural producers. In this case, these subsidies can be replaced by these loans via the export bank. Do not forget that these loans must be the lowest possible, must be at a level of 1.2 or 3% a year, as colleagues in Croatia, Slovenia have, without talking about France. The third institution we need is related to large economic systems, such as "Gosa", such as "Jumko", such as "FAP" in Priboj. It is an intervention fund to help large economic systems, so an institution that would serve primarily to preserve existing jobs, not immediately for new jobs, but above all to preserve existing jobs, because preserving today's current job is even five times cheaper than creating a new one. Of course, I would add that by applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement directly for these four years, we have lost about 500m euros, and we have indirectly lost much more. We've lost a lot of jobs and many domestic companies have been shut down. I'm afraid if we don't change our relationship, we'll have a big problem on January 1st 2014. That's why, Mr. Dacic, it's very important that in Article 41. There is a provision that allows for the protection of domestic production when there is great damage from excessive imports. Careful, the EU did not accidentally place this member, when there is a danger of excessive imports. Mr. Knezevic, this is the same idea for you and the proposal to start this immediately in talks with the European Commission and that it is necessary for Serbia and for Serbian agriculture as soon as possible to activate this safeguard clause. Of course, it's a good thing that in the past, Mr. Dacic, you've led a mixed committee with the Russian Federation and that you've understood the importance of the Free Trade Agreement that we have with the Russian Federation. I want to believe that this government will insist on making more co-operation with the Russian Federation, especially in the area of agriculture, because if we lose this free trade agreement, apples will not import into Russia from Serbia, but will import them from Poland and France, because they will be much cheaper. Of course, I have to add that the basis, because the economy cannot be separated from politics, for future economic development, I think it is and I'm sure it is in political neutrality, because political neutrality is also keeping us an agreement on free trade with the Russian Federation. Realistically, if everything were ideal in Serbia, Serbia could not join the EU before 2025 and there is no need to make any concessions today, but rather turn to those markets where Germany and France are going today. Just to repeat, Germany has opened nine times as many of its companies in the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Belarus over the past 10 years. An Austrian and German companies have not been seen in the last two years on the Russian market since the crisis started in the EU. I would sublime all of this as a synergy of political neutrality and new industrialization. Once again, political neutrality and new industrialisation, the synergy of these two factors, I think, can contribute very much to Serbia's economic development. As for the development of the economy, there is no development of the economy without the preservation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Let's not forget, Kosovo is an economic issue. Everybody always forgets him. Here's Mr. Bacevic, he'll be running the Ministry of Mining. You spoke in your exposé of development and energy. Our thermal power plants are mostly the largest part of coal, 90% of its coal in Serbia is located in KIM territory and the highest quality coal. Much more quality than it is in Colubara, or anywhere in central Serbia. That is why it is very important, apart from coal, to preserve all potentials in precious metals, but also to add, Serbia has invested in Kosovo over 20 billion euros in the past 30, 40 years. That economic aspect must not be forgotten. If we push for the preservation of Kosovo in Serbia, I'm sure we have a chance of economic success as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u605	Mr Dusan Petrovic applied for the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u606	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, some of them are still fellow ministers. In these small hours, at the very beginning, I want to say that I think that the government should be formed as soon as possible and that it is not disputed, but I don't see why we haven't done all this in the day, and it's a shame to have a debate on certainly the most important subject that parliament can, if it discusses the Constitution, have something more important without the citizens of Serbia being able to see it. That's the solution now, and that's your call. I think it's bad and you didn't go the right way. It won't be easy for you, Mr. Dacic. It's going to be difficult for a lot of reasons. You have a hard government. In this difficult government, you will fight for leadership with Alexander Vukic, because he has more MPs than you, which in itself will create one significant equation that you have to solve. On the other hand, it won't be easy for you because of the pre-election promises made by coalition members and I'm going to talk about some of these issues here, because I think it's important that we at least ask questions if we can't get answers from this exposé. Frankly speaking, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that I am proud to read here that the parliamentary majority of the parties who have decided to make a coalition agreement, he says, that meeting the conditions for Serbia's entry into the EU should be considered an action of generalisation progress for our country. That's a big win, DS. We're set up for this. I'm proud that you've gone to the side we've been on since 1990, and many of us have been on since we were born. Acceleration of the European integration process, with maximum efforts to get a date for starting negotiations with the EU, will certainly be a key point of your policy, in my court. As has been said here many times, apart from the technical many jobs and things to do, and I believe that our administration is capable of doing so, and I think that we share this experience together, more able than many administrations in our neighbourhood, in the region here, and that it is only to technicality and whether we can quickly adopt laws and start quickly and implement them, I think that several years ago we would have taken a few steps closer to the EU, maybe even enter it. But we have our political problems and our big topics and these topics waiting for the whole country, but they are primarily waiting for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Another thing in Expose solves the huge political dilemma we have faced over the past years very intensely during the election campaign. A sentence saying that the government will accept all the results of Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue, which has reached the previous Serbian government in all the talks so far, indicates that the SNS no longer has any doubts about it, that those who have conducted the negotiations, all of us together as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but there is Borislav Stefanovic, and all other people, have done one significant job for Serbia, and that for what they have done there is a positive assessment, except 22 MPs, if I remember correctly, the DSS, the whole parliament. It's a consensus. It's not just the consensus of unanimity. Consensus is also a vast majority prevailing. It's also a significant finding, which comes from this document that we've been discussing all night. I think by the New Year's Eve, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, will have to make very serious decisions. It may not belong to this topic today, but it is inextricably tied to it. I heard a statement by the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, a day or two ago, that he did not want Jahjag, who is in office as president of the so-called president. The Republic of Kosovo, enters the dialogue before a consensus is established. The government, and you all know it very well, especially Mr. Dacic, is the one who determines and leads politics. The President of the Republic shall have his constitutional powers. I think he made his statements clear that he would participate in this process. You've got some tough decisions on you. You've taken a huge responsibility. I am sure that in this House we will discuss what all the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do about this matter. Many MPs here today have even spoken of certain concrete things that will be the subject of these difficult decisions during this fall. All of what every government and government in Serbia must do is happen in a difficult economic time. Not in Serbia, but all over the world and all over Europe. The Democratic Party paid the cost of Serbia's governance in these difficult times in these elections, which will not change anything at all, that the new government will be dramatically difficult when it comes to the economy. Now this is where we come to these pre-election promises. A very important sentence – the level of debt in Serbia compared to the total GDP is much lower than in other European countries. Mr. Dacic, does this mean that the Law on the highest percentage of debt will be amended in relation to GDP? Against it were, above all, politicians who run the SNS, and did you achieve consensus that a very significant thing would change? It is important that the citizens of Serbia know that. The Democratic Party, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic, who was then president, has been accused, without delay, of being high-ranking traitors for dramatically increasing the country's debt. As far as I can tell from this sentence, your government, Mr. Dacic, will proceed to increase the rate of duty. It's important that we know that. You've already said a lot of important things about the banking sector these days, in a very interesting way, and many have criticised you. If you're going to be honest, I also think the dramatic thing is that in Serbia, dinar loans are 15%, 24%, that euro loans are 11%, 12%, it's much more expensive in almost any European country, not more expensive than in Russia. In Russia there's such interest. But it is very important that when these important sentences stand in Expose, when you tell us what you intend to do to make this state of affairs change, especially when monetary policy is, above all, the area in charge of the National Bank as the country's central institution, the National Bank, which has its own independence, which together with the Government runs certain parts of economic policy, but the Governor and the National Bank are authorised by the Constitution to deal with certain affairs. I think it is very important for all of us to hear from you what measures you intend to take to improve the situation of things in the banking sector. I agree with many MPs, who have said here about the economy that the liquidity of our economy is improving, that everyone who deals with any kind of business has cheaper money, because that's the way to start an economy in this country, and that's the only way to hire people. There is no stone of wisdom different. I won't say too much, I'll say something about agriculture, but I'll go back to one sentence that seems very important to me. Speaking of how things with the national currency stand, you've made it absurd that during that period, foreign reserves have increased multiplely. Is there plans, Mr. Dacic, for the government to use foreign reserves for one of the measures of economic policy? It's a very important thing and it's important that we get an answer to that question. There is no Mr. Dinkic, there is Mrs. Kalanovic, we have had great disputes, even conflicts over the development bank of the previous government. Now I see that the development bank has become part of a plan the government wants to implement and I welcome it. I welcome that we have very much advocated that the Development Bank Act be passed. It was not adopted because it was the party's view of the URS. It's a good thing they've changed their minds and that we'll have that proposal on the agenda, one way or another. I think it's a good thing you put in your exposés that irrigation will be one of the essential infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, some of the people who would become ministers were government ministers in 2005, 2006. Serbia then had more than two billion euros in cash after large privatisations. If we had invested that money, instead of things we couldn't recognize, in irrigation, we would have made a huge profit these months when this drought hit not only Serbia, but this whole region here too. If we had a million and 100,000 acres of irrigated land today, if we had used a billion euros to make irrigation systems, we would today be a country that collects huge profits and its citizens earning huge profits and prosperity, and that's a mistake. Now's a good opportunity to change that. You will have, Mr. Knezevic, completed contracts for projects for about 200,000 hectares of irrigation. I think the works in Vojvodina, here around Belgrade and in Machva will be completed by the beginning of September. It's the revitalization of an existing channel network. We're going to be very supportive of you here because that's a good thing. The DS will be a strong opposition. We know what a state is, we're not malicious, we're not gonna save you. We want the citizens of our country to be better, but the state can't open up space to do something for the citizens. We can all help create better conditions together. Under difficult circumstances you'll have very difficult, I mean even historically difficult decisions to make. We think that in times like these, it's a great courage to take the responsibility you've taken. I would like to point out once again that in these 20 years we have made a dramatic fundamental national turn, that we have made a consensus on a national issue and national matter, which is that for the vast majority of Serbian citizens, entering the EU is a key, perspective development matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u607	Thank you. Next reported Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Mr. Chiquiriz, just to let you know that there is only 20 seconds left for your MP group. You had six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u608	Mr. Chotriæ spoke for four minutes, and we have six minutes. Take a closer look. (President: Believe me, I've been keeping a close eye on the records. All right, here's to 20 seconds. I'm going to start with what is the Exposes that is presented by the future prime minister. In principle, there's not much to object to in Expose. As we will behave, all that leads Serbia to its faster EU membership, and for us it is opening perspectives for all Serbian citizens, we will support. He suspects that the exposés and everything the government has intended to do, will be achieved, exists because of an objective situation in Serbia that is really difficult, and also because of what we have seen the government's intentions, how to replace civil servants, how to concentrate power on one or two people. (President: I'll let you finish your sentence briefly, since you've already been over one minute. Then I'd have to let all the other MP clubs do it. Just one more sentence. And because of the atmosphere created around the National Bank that has special status and because of announcements of a possible attack on the country's foreign reserves, which we believe is a major threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u609	Thank you. The next reported one is Bojan Đuric. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u610	I'm not sure, I think Mr. Andric was talking for 11 minutes and 40 seconds, and I think LDP time is 16 minutes and 40 seconds. (President: Your total time was 16,48. You have two minutes and 20, 30 seconds maximum. ) (Judita Popovic: Not true, we followed, 11 minutes spoke. There's five minutes left for sure. ) (President: There are no minutes left, but we will ask for official records. Here you go. ) Dear President, candidate for Prime Minister, candidates for Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, except that at this deaf hour of the night, it seems to me that we are somehow in some kind of deaf room, that little of what is already coming out of this room at this moment, and that we are slowly becoming prisoners of that formal obligation to choose the government tonight or tomorrow, and I think that this is the most tragic thing right now. This is certainly not the first session or the first political event that lasts all night. I guess I'm one of the younger MPs, except for my colleague Selakovic, who's younger than all the ministers' candidates, but there's been a lot of these sessions over the past 20, 25 years. I think we're in trouble today as soon as 20 or 25 years ago, people saw this with some kind of expectation. Today I think they have no expectations and that this type of lethargy is the biggest problem of this country. Why am I saying this? I don't have a problem with the first two pages of your Expose. I think there are some truths that Serbia needs at the moment. I have a problem with the other 20 pages. What you wrote on those 20 pages, Mr. Dacic, I'm not sure that the right answers to all the problems that came out at the very beginning of your Exposé. The opposition usually complains to the government and has repeatedly voiced concern that the government will not realise some of its plans in the exposé. I have to tell you, at least as far as LDP is concerned, for one good part of the exposé, we hope you won't make it happen. Especially when it comes to these economic sectors, i.e. possible economic solutions that you have offered in response to the economic and social crisis in Serbia. These are wonderful quotes from Ford and some others, but the problem is that Ford wasn't the director of a public enterprise that produced cars, he was some kind of private producer, he wasn't importing cars, he was selling them, he was starting to produce them. In this exposé, I don't see any way that you or people would, let me put it this way, your ideological manifestations said that you would create some kind of extra value. These are wonderful plans for free health, but there is Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I suppose she might be able to explain it better. If you say you're in favour of free healthcare, that means you're terminating health care contributions. As long as citizens pay these contributions, health care in our country is not free. And with this and this kind of contribution, the Republic Health Fund can't even serve a minimum of its obligations. You remember how we ended the past assembly of parliament, with huge loans to Galenika and huge guarantees for other public enterprises. What you are offering here as an effective model of solving all these problems simply cannot withstand a reality test or countries that are much more developed than Serbia. I followed what you were doing and what you were talking about in the campaign and after the campaign. It's good that it came out of this kind of isolationism that we are or that you were prone to, but you can't take segments of individual solutions or, as I say, modern trends in countries that differ in all things in Serbia, and thus artificially mold them on our political economic soil. You're not the first, you're not lonely... (President: Time, Mr. Guric. )......................................................................................................... You're not a lone example of that. I think it's your biggest mistakes, or those dots of continuity compared to the previous government. We will not vote for your government, but once again I ask you, at this very moment it is a great responsibility for you to choose to be Prime Minister, except for having to lead the government, you must try to control something that in these first days resembles some kind of odyssey of the people. counterpart Selakovic will also know what this is about. It's a pretty ugly one, I don't want it to happen again, but a parallel with something that happened in Serbia 120 or 130 years ago, at a very important historical moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u611	Thank you. The word is from Mrs. Milica Radovic, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u612	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, although almost all opposition MPs have given up tonight's debate, I find it unfair, it is not correct, at the very least it is not polite to discuss one of the most important issues for Serbia's future at this time. I think your responsibility in that case is enormous, because you are the one who runs this congregation and that this sort of solution situation will by no means contribute to the respect of this home's dignity. As far as the exposé is concerned, I really didn't expect this kind of exposure, which is falling back from the protection of national and state interests. I was expecting an exposé based at least on the basic respect of national state interests. This exposé is, in my opinion, full of contradictions, general places and, in our opinion, the worst of all, perhaps one dangerous tendency to continue the policy of breaking the constitution, primarily when it comes to politics towards Kosovo and Metohija and when it comes to the AP Vojvodina. I would ask my colleagues from the Democratic Party to allow me to speak, and I appeal to you to provide me with conditions to continue the debate. (President: Please, dear colleagues, allow Mrs Radovic to complete her presentation. Thank you. ) It has been more than two months since the end of the elections, we have slowly begun to approach the moment that represented the deadline for the formation of the government and it is good that some agreement happened, but in my opinion it is extremely important that the government, which led the state by yesterday, left it, headed by the former President of the Republic. I believe it is one of the worst authorities in Serbia's latest history, which because of political arrogance, because of its inability and lack of courage to deal with the most important issues in society and because of the blind fulfillment of every requirement and every condition on which it comes, left the country in one desperate economic situation, with unemployment of about 25%, with the release of the economy, with a rate of 118 dinar compared to the euro and, of course, with no direct foreign investment dinar, at least when it comes to this year. This, of course, is all I'm saying, not because of the citizens, who are feeling much more about the destruction of this policy, but we MPs, I'm saying this primarily because as a representative of the opposition I can express my understanding of the difficulties and the risk this government faces. That's why I'm not inclined to go immediately at first with attacks, primarily personal, when it comes to the government's composition, even if it's some kind of personnel solution and how I doubt it. I think it's necessary, before we go on concrete suggestions, to figure out some things. The mandate has recently pointed out several times that this is the first Serbian government, probably thinking that, unlike the previous government, foreign ambassadors and tycoons did not form. Now, if this information is correct, I am interested in the answer to the question – why was co-operation with the DSS and the DSS absolutely forbidden for any kind of co-operation? I am saying this primarily because we are the only party that we have not even formally been invited to consult with regard to the formation of power. I'd hate to be seen as someone who might be sorry or who might be offended by that fact. I'm primarily saying this because it would disprove the desire and, of course, disprove the notion that there was no pressure in forming this power. Furthermore, what is very important to me, I must express my suspicion in the honest intention of the old-new ministers on the fact that they will opt for a policy of discontinuity, at least in those provisions and in those areas where the prime minister mentioned it. I'll remind you that in six areas of exposé, this government continues along the same path... (President: I apologize to Mrs Radovic. I ask the MPs to pay attention at the session to allow Mrs Radovic to complete her presentation. I can do it this way, but I don't think it's right considering what time it is and since our concentration is really getting away. I say, I am expressing my serious suspicion in the sincere intention of those ministers who have performed their duty in the earlier government and who will perform this duty in the government that will be formed from tomorrow, that they will opt for a discount policy, at least in those areas that the mandater mentioned in the exposé itself, because there are six areas in which this government continues absolutely in the same direction as the government that ruled until today. I'm just going to ask one question, just to make it more clear what I'm talking about. Let's just say, can anyone believe that a minister, who was very supportive of the example for the sake of judicial reform, will still be for a completely different solution to those problems today, as long as the judicial reform has led us. Or, to be more specific, can anyone believe that the department will be conducted by those who have potentiated the division as their invention? I don't believe that, but there are a lot of conflicting questions. Of course, many contradictions are also found in economic policy itself. I don't understand whether this government is defined for the concept of the development economy or the concept of savings policy? I don't get it because I don't think there's a concept that will represent the IMF and 13 salaries at the same time. I also don't seem to be running a limited monetary policy at the same time, pumping money for the development bank. These are the contradictions that it is necessary to get an answer tonight, to know whether this government has a clear way of implementing the state from this economic crisis. I will dedicate my exposure to something very important to us, which is a matter of policy towards KIM. From the exposé, we could only conclude that this government will continue the policy of the previous government and will not recognise Kosovo's independence. But you can't see from the exposé what it's going to be and how it's going to be defended. The previous government also said that Kosovo's independence would never recognise, but did nothing to endanger this independence, or, to say even clearer -- rather, it did much to strengthen this independence. In the pre-election campaign, we could hear that the agreements reached in the agreement between Belgrade and Pristina would be disputed if they were in breach of the constitution. Now we hear that these agreements will be respected in the set, as the previous government has agreed. I'm just wondering if it was the only means left for this government. Why don't you at least formally interrogate him? Why don't you at least formally reconsider his constitutionality? It is simply that I cannot believe that something that is deeply anti-constitutional, deeply illegal, will be applied, deeply to the harm of citizens living on KIM and deeply to the harm of Serbia's own interests. In the exposé, you mentioned that Serbia has an uninvited foreign-political position. If so, then I think, if we want our partners to treat us in a different way both in Europe and in America, in a more just way and in a way that has been etched out of more respect than it has been before, then, of course, it is necessary that we refuse some things. That wasn't the case with this government. The policy of fear of political and diplomatic conflict continues. It is this fear of political and diplomatic conflict with the EU and with America that has led to our struggle to preserve territorial integrity being transformed into a farce. In the end, since time will allow me a little more... (President: You have two minutes left. I think you'll give me a little more time, because you used my time to calm the MPs. (President: It's the time I've included. In the end, the question of the judiciary. I expected a little more consideration of this topic and this issue, because I think the situation in the Serbian judiciary is really worrying today. All that was meant to result from the reform process resulted in one fiasco and a complete failure, resulting in a complete loss of trust for Serbia's citizens in the judicial system. Of course, this was because this process was accessed with a huge amount of political arrogance and, of course, a huge amount of ignorance from those who implemented this reform. There are certain questions here that I could look back on when it comes to solving the situation itself in the judiciary. I will remind you that there are huge problems, that it is completely without any criteria and criteria, that a large number of courts have been abolished, that there is a completely flat-rate number of judges, that the re-election of judges is then approached, and that the Constitutional Court's decision has followed, where all complaints of those judges who have not been re-elected have been adopted. To be constructive, I'm finally going to bring out my own personal view of the situation in the judiciary and the way it can be overcome. I think Mr. Selakovic will have an understanding of that. With this composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I don't think any further measure regarding the creation of the foundations of an independent judiciary can be implemented. It is necessary immediately, by an urgent procedure, to amend the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and to select a whole new composition of the High Council of the judiciary and then to start resolving the issue. The first question is that this newly elected composition of the High Council of the Judiciary is returning to work by all those judges whose constitutional appeals before the Constitutional Court were adopted, later to move on to the revision of the new network of courts itself. But I'm not inclined to believe that a solution that is radical and revolutionary, which would bring everything back to its previous state, would be productive. I'm more of a variant that should go with a softer solution that would mean seeing the total number of judges and looking at all the problems that have arisen in the judiciary. After that, we'd go... (President: Please finish as soon as possible. )......................................................................................................... After that, it would probably have to go to the choice of the president of the courts, which is one of the grounds for completing the foundation for an independent judiciary. In the end, I must say, the DSS will be a constructive opposition. We will support everything that's right, but we will be the fiercest opponents of all the bad moves this government has decided to make. This concept cannot be supported, for the simple reason that it is significantly deviating from the concept of a government policy that the DSS has been in favour of for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u613	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u614	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen candidates for ministers, distinguished colleague Dacic, or should I say still Deputy Prime Minister, today you have had on several occasions a glass of bile which you have spilled your colleagues and partners so far and we have not offended you with a single word. If you could be angry at someone, it's precisely your new coalition partners who said that the government in which you were prime minister's deputy was the worst thing that could have hit Serbia; that the government in which you were prime minister made a number of mistakes in the economy, is responsible for increasing the number of unemployed, etc. In fact, she was saying, that part of the position, he talked more about you who are on that side today, and you're sitting, wanting to form a new government. I remind you that the government led by Mirko Cvetkovic by the number of votes and by mandates in the Serbian parliament received more than it had in 2008. In this government, that is, in this parliament, exactly the largest number has been given to the DS. A small number of votes have been given to parties that are making a new coalition today on a number of non-discipline basis, considering, and I'm sure that since you called for God on several occasions. You can call yourself that none of you dreamed, when you were in the campaign, that you'd be building a government like this. I guess that's why this exposé was a lot of shrubbery, enough, if you let me say, quite thin, full of general places of desire, desires, promises, thinking, seeing. But I don't blame you for that, given that you've concluded something that's incompatible, that you've produced something that's indivisible, that you've had a lot of pressure to let go of a lot of what's in the hands of the Prime Minister. This kind of exposure is welcome, given that I didn't even expect it. Knowing you, I expected him to be much better. And when you entered that adventure of making a government with new partners, I expected you to have a clear vision of where you're going, with whom and in which way. Unfortunately, that vision is not clear to me now, but it certainly looks similar to that, so I can see that you are happy and happy today. And you should be. In that part of the session you didn't attend, please listen to what your partners said about the government where you were the deputy prime minister. Consider the responsibility and responsibility of your colleagues, who have remained in the government. I have friends in the government, I have people I think have been correct and I will be as correct to them as I always do to you, but don't let me defend your work or I don't like the way your colleagues have spoken. It is not true what the esteemed colleague Markovic said, nor can one who has 14% be a winner compared to the one who has 22%. In politics, anything is possible, but that kind of mathematics simply doesn't exist. It's some account that's only known in Serbia. No one who has 14% could be a prime minister, but they can be. You will listen to him, as you are now silent, because you are told not to speak and respect what you have authority since day one and they should listen to you, because you are a man of much greater credibility and have much more experience than they are. What's my point, and I want to challenge, if I can, the controversy, it's just exposés and a few things that you put here, which aren't decadent, and they seem very clear to me, but you didn't make them very clear. One thing that is mentioned by fellow Petrovic, on the sixth side of the exposé, is that the level of duty in Serbia, compared to the total social product, is much smaller than in other European countries. Is this an announcement of increasing Serbian citizens' responsibilities? These days through some media, one of the regime's new regimes, which is being created these days, has been said that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic has entrusted Serbia with 12 knees in advance. How many knees will the government be in charge of to fulfill what you plan to do? We heard that there was an idea that credit for the necessary railway infrastructure in Serbia could be transferred to credit for the budget and spent. Whether it's a work plan and whether it's really a policy that you think we're not in our government, in which you were the deputy prime minister, we could work. We could have done it, but we didn't want to. Why? Because we believe it is necessary to invest in infrastructure, as we felt it was necessary to invest in the Water Management, but there was no such money. It's a very important question, and I expect you to give an answer. On the other hand, on page 11, a large part of the farmer who is suffering great damage today because of this drought rejoiced with the promises made by your colleagues in the campaign, that the agrarian budget will be doubled from this year. Mr Dinkic certainly received the 0.4% thanks to which the URS entered parliament. You say we plan to significantly increase the agrarian budget. What does a significant increase mean? So last year, the Ministry of Agriculture increased the budget by 44%, which is also significant, but don't matter, the promise is double. Whether it will be double or not, whether it will be double in the next year or if we will see anyone in the old manner in 2016, the election year, when we will again have the opportunity to see how the government falls apart by the seams, as some opposition arises among you that will at that moment draw that double budget for the agrarian. You have a great responsibility to the Serbian peasant and I think you should do it already in the next budget. On page 13, you're talking about privatising large systems that they won't privatise the electricity industry, the Railways, the PTT, the airport. I'm not sure you're right and it's a smart decision. Given that there are more airports in Serbia, which can be put into operation very quickly. Don't talk about Telekom. Here's what's not going to be privatized. I remind you, we tried to sell a certain amount to Telekom. Our government in which we sat together, a part of the opposition, or position of the present one, then filed criminal charges. Are you, uh, avoiding putting Telekom in the exposés, announcing that Telekom will be sold to some future? Serbian citizens should get an answer at the end of the day. It's something that must be crystal clear from the very beginning. It's about one of the most important public enterprises, which makes a huge profit. We're not saying that Serbia should own Telekom. We believe that Serbia, as well as other countries, should privatise telecommunications. I remind you that there was a huge hack during last year, apropo that attempted sale, and that we then bought the Greek part. Serbia has a more significant share in Telekom compared to 2008. On page 15, you are talking about major infrastructure endings, major traffic corridors, etc. We have a big dilemma here now. Did you consult the President of the Republic in this exhibition, who promised during the campaign, if I understood correctly, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia, Serbia's most eager project, could say all the time. He said it would be a project worth about 100 billion euros, which should connect Belgrade and Thessaloniki, Morava, Vardar, etc., in which Serbian citizens believed. You kicked him out of this exposé. Does this mean that what was told to the citizens, according to that old radical system when Vojislav Seselj says – it was in the campaign, it's not for serious. We need answers. This isn't criticism, don't get me wrong. I just want the citizens of Serbia to know tomorrow when they get up what the base is on which they will be able to plan their future and will they be able to travel in their life by boat to Thessaloniki and sell their goods, buy or not? Was it just a story for the campaign, which I think would be very bad, because then there would be an atmosphere where there was one imbalance between the president and the government. Apparently, the government doesn't listen to the president. The president has a problem with this National Security Council. He doesn't trust his chief of staff. Someone else has to stand up. All of this raises suspicion among citizens and creates one chill – whether there is one symbiosis of government in Serbia or not. What I consider to have been dropped, I'm surprised that part has been released, and it concerns security integration. I am personally and sincerely happy that someone who is V.D. is coming to the head of the Department of Defense. the president of the largest party. He'll probably have the possibility that what I couldn't do would provide considerably higher funds if he wanted to. He will have the power, as far as we can see, to have all the power in this country. I'd like him to do it. What makes me, on the other hand, sad, is that it's obvious that this job at the Ministry of Defense is too simple and easy to do 5-6 things. If he secures the money, I'm sure that the people working there professionally will succeed in an adequate way and will raise the level of security of our citizens to an even higher level. But what's very important and I'm sure there's a difference, and you deliberately avoided writing it in your exposé. This is Serbia's relationship, not only to the EU, but also to an important military international organisation, which is NATO. Serbia is currently a member of the Partnership for Peace. I see, it's just part of the SNS, which is now turning its head. Are we going to stay in that partnership? Will we or won't we? (President: I ask the MPs not to engage in a dialogue with the speaker, and the speaker not to address the MPs. Mr. President, I am speaking very concisely, very concentrated. I believe at half-four, there's a part here that's hard to track. (President: I have an understanding for everyone, just please continue. ) We are talking about a matter that is very important, and in terms of the security of Serbia, the region etc. Will Serbia stay in the Partnership for Peace? Whether it will continue with integration, deepen relations or, compared to the platform that existed, it will leave the programme and become neutral, or as it is already called, in a sense in which it has been declared several times by a part of the government, which makes up the largest party in this parliament. These are the questions we need to get answers to. I repeat, it's not malicious again, so don't take this as a criticism. We've known each other, we've worked together for four years. We were no less successful than we were in that government. We've got somewhere to go for about fifty percent of the vote, but we expect today when you take the main stick to answer such serious questions you define, if not in Expoze, at least in the answers to what we've asked as questions. On the other hand, make sure we understand everything we think is good for Serbia. We'd like the corridors to be finished, too. It doesn't matter who's from what part of Serbia, you finish them all. We'll support you in that, don't have any dilemma. We wish that Serbia had no employees in four years, that the corridor to Thessaloniki would be completed, that everything you promised would be fulfilled. Rest assured, I'll give you a vote in four years in parliamentary elections, but just keep what you promised. No more than that. If you do not meet it, this parliamentary hall will be very awkward for those ministers who come here, and do not fulfil their obligations, or their promises. We did not force anyone to make promises, but those who made promises must be held accountable both to the citizens and to the MPs. I wish you good luck, especially to the new ministers. To those who worked, I thank them for the cooperation we had. I think we've been good, correct partners. To those who have now entered the government, we will see each other very soon, so we will see how you have understood the government's work at all and whether you think it's as easy as it looks on this side and on that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u615	Mrs. Trivan applied for the next word. The time for your parliamentary group is 29 minutes and 40. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u616	I know this is starting to be absurd, not listen to us citizens, not listen to us, not have more concentration for it, but I am speaking out of respect for you tonight, because I think you deserve a chance, because I think we should be in the O.R. and because I believe that this government is, despite the fact that it is chosen in a deaf age, it is the right to respect it and to say a few words in that respect. I wish the future prime minister and today's prime minister all the happiness. I think other than God, whom he called, he'll need a lot of happiness. I think that's why, because of the way this government is formed. We've seen two great wonders these days. For the first time in history, the Ministry Law defended a party that has no mandate, the SNS defended. It is the first time in the history of parliamentaryism that we see it, making it clear to all of us that this government will be a two-headed angel. The party that received the most votes had a strategic partnership with only one party – DSS. It is the only party to support presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic. It is the only party that no one has afterwards called for negotiations. This clearly showed what Ivica Dacic wrote in his Expose, that this is a country of failed expectations and missed opportunities and that this new government intends to do so. Mr. Dacic said - commend me a little, but I can't because he said before - don't waste the government that hasn't started working yet. That's why I don't want to make any remarks about this government, because I'm not going to step on my word that she needs a chance, and that's why I'm going to talk about this government to the quotes of those who are taking part in it today. Tomislav Nikolic himself called this government a national fraud. He said he wanted to avoid only one mistake, one made by Boris Tadic, to add 126 and then suffer blackmail from small parties that are insecure. We'll never be the prime minister for forming a government, because I think that would be the biggest scam of the people. So, according to Tomislav Nikolic, we are present today with the greatest deception of the people. Today we attend the government of continuity. All the key levers that one government makes are people from the past, who have held those levers in their hands for some 12 years. The prime minister, since in his exposé, has shown what his weight points are, and it is good that they are. One thing is corruption and fighting corruption, and I agree that we haven't done much. The second is economics. We all know what the moment is, and we know who's going to lead all the economic resources today. I have no right to say one word about Mladjan Dinkic, he was our coalition partner. He is told by the SNS, who has given itself and its citizens the political task of finding Mladjan Dinkic in prison after these elections. Jorgenka Tabakovic said in an easy way: "Mladjan Dinkic has the right to change character". I don't attend a psychological tour here, and we're not asking anyone to change character. Mrs. Jovanka Tabakovic asked him to go to prison, not to change character just a month ago. As a quote to which to implement economic reforms, I will quote Mrs. Jorganko Tabakovic: "I will continue to present evidence of the millions of abuses of Mladjan Dinkic for the rest of my life. He makes the URS to make the roads of dirty money. He's responsible for destroying the banking system, for all abuses of debt write-offs, fraud with the National Savings. He is the chief advocate to invest the privatisation money in winning the election. So, if the government is made up of programs and people, I'm afraid that according to the estimates of you sitting here today, the people who are going to represent some resolutions, they don't guarantee that we're going to have results. You said fighting corruption was your priority. He also said Mr. Wolf, many times in the last few days. I trust you, unlike your coalition partners, both of you and others, to do something in that area. But Mr. Vulin, your coalition partner, doesn't trust you. First of all, one 30 or 40 days ago, he said: ''Dacic's stay in office implies that we will not know how the SPS personnel got rich, why drugs are the most expensive in Europe, while he will still be able to talk about patriotism, and that he arrests Albanian terrorists during the campaign, which he has not arrested for four years. Dacic wants to stay in power because it is the only way not to happen what Snezana Malovic announced, which is to examine the roles of SPS officials in the robbery of public enterprises such as Galenika, it is the only way not to know who posted Kenneth and what Mrkonjic's role is in crime with the issue of truck licences." This for you, my dear coalition partners, I would never say. And in the end, you know that respect for human rights and freedom is important to me. You know I disagreed with Mr. Ugljanin's observation given in the previous government. He believed that police terror, for the first time since the 1990s, was the government in Sandzak and that you were responsible. Today, you are to him, guaranteed protection of his minority and Bosniak rights. Why am I alleging this? Because with such a mistrust, no government can be a long century. Of course the desire for authority is something that unites, but it seems to me that this government unites both the feeling of shame and the mistrust you have for each other. That's why I think that what is born with a hump, time can never correct and that in the end, with a sign of support from you, Mr. Dacic, I say: we never considered any of our coalition partners to be liars, frauds or anything like that. Otherwise we'd never be with him. Never has any authority been more important to us than personal contempt and hatred, and this government is formed on the the thesis said by Mr. Vukic, the co-primeer: 'Among me and Dacic, nothing has ever changed. I hate him because he lied to me. He hates me because he lied to me. It's a bad foundation, my dear colleagues, for making a government that can make a result, God help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u617	Right on the line, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u618	Like we said a thousand times, we didn't hug, we didn't kiss, we didn't sign historical agreements, we didn't lie to Serbia, we lied to each other, how suddenly we think we're wonderful, we worship each other. We didn't. We did this for one very simple reason. You're in opposition, and now you're going to be responsible for what you did in power. If we hadn't done it, you'd have kept doing everything you've done. You're about the SPS in 2008, saying that murderers, not thieves, murderers. You were making a statement saying, "The Legion was killing by order of the SPS." And after that, you wrote statements and agreements about two great pains. Two great pains, and you didn't allow that one great pain to be buried in an alley of giants that the President of the Republic would have to get, at least as a possibility. So we didn't lie to Serbia. That we thought well of each other, we didn't. If we had made a government, we have also made a government that will be better, which is better than yours and the government you are in opposition for. Now is the time to feel it. You know what, those moral sermons we could accept from someone else and be ashamed of, but from you, who were doing the same and worse in 2008, we can't. Look at yourself first. You're the ones who called them murderers, guilty of everything, of all wars, of all crimes. You were the one who convinced that the SPS and all that time was guilty of every evil in the Balkans and you then made the most peaceful coalition with them. You can't give us those lessons. Now in opposition, you have the right to feel like moral giants, but don't forget, you've tried to stay in power until the last second with those same people, and when you failed to do so, only then did you feel a big problem with it, without talking about what you've offered this side of the world and the coalition and every agreement, so when you've been rejected, you recognize in us all the evil of this world. (President: Please, Mr. Vulin, just take care of the weather. Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u619	Right on the line, Mrs. Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u620	Just to avoid you flaunting me, I'd draw attention to you having a lot of loose ends between yourselves, and that in the future, you're looking at your own differences, and being in opposition today is, believe me, a great moral privilege.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u621	Thank you. The next registered speaker is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. He's not here. Next on the list is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u622	I agree with my esteemed colleague. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I think it's completely absurd and truly unnecessary to define, to continue the work of the Assembly until these hours, and to believe that in this situation, not only clean forms work, but above all, because it is important for us as an opposition to send certain very clear messages to the government in the formation. Anyway, I'm not just going to criticize, I'm going to make some very clear praises. Since Mr. Prime Minister asked for it, not because he asked for it, but because he has things to support. What Mrs. Trivan said, I can only agree absolutely. So I think Expose of the Prime Minister was really very similar to Expose of Mr. Cvetkovic, that there were no clear activist measures in it, that we didn't see how the missing funds would come into play, that we didn't see how the problems in the budget, which your current partners in the regime would solve. What's the fact that this exposure didn't reveal one of the most important things, which is how KIM's problem will be solved. However, I must say that in any case, we are pleased to see the absolute continuity of this government in foreign policy. This is important for the future of this country and its citizens, not only on European integration but also on regional co-operation. I must say, I have the distinct satisfaction of having full continuity in Kosovo politics. Also, I must ask you, as the government of the future and you as the future Prime Minister, not to be disturbed by the ever-silent noises of unhappiness by the truly small extremist, far-right opposition here in parliament, which, unfortunately, there are both in the SNS and who are trying to turn Serbia off from a normal civilizational path that leads to the well-being of its citizens. In that sense, you will have absolutely our support. Do not ever think that DS will not support brave, non-demagogical, concrete moves in resolving Kosovo's problem. We are encouraged by the Prime Minister's Expoze, that the government will meet all agreements reached with Pristina and that the dialogue with Pristina will continue at a political level. It's encouraging and it's good for this country and the citizens. It also puts an end to all campaign speculation and puts an end to all speeches and promises from Mitrovica and the surrounding places and I can ask myself to carry out further consultations within your coalition, not as much with MPs as with people who will take over some important institutions, so that they understand what is happening, because it is not a word that only the DSS sees what everyone already sees in parliament, which is that the government will continue a constructive, real, only possible Kosovo policy that absolutely does not mean recognition of Kosovo's independence. I also need to look back, allow me a small, minimal privatisation as the only career, professional diplomat in this room with the minister of the future Mrkic, to express my satisfaction that this place is set up, it seems to me, for the third time in the recent history of career diplomats. On the crafts side and on the side of a collegiate relationship, I would like to congratulate him and tell him that he will be the first minister in a long time to be a professional diplomat, an honorary profession that I belong to, which is not a member of any party. Not being a member of the party is not the only and guaranteed quality, but knowing Mr. Ambassador Mrkic, who was a state secretary at the time of the still valid government, I can guarantee that it is a professional diplomat and a man of exceptional quality. I will also ask, as foreign policy is extremely important for the future development of this country, that, in line with the government's programme and the Prime Minister's Expoze, foreign policy activities continue exactly as the prime minister has announced them, why the foreign ministry will also need greater budgetary allocations and rationalisation and a reduction of diplomatic representations that may be unnecessary, which do not do their job well and reduce the number of diplomats, the executive abroad, which are the biggest consumers of the budget. Therefore, if the Foreign Ministry moves towards rationalization, believe you will have full support, Ambassador. I really wish you happy work in that sense. What I also have to notice is that, on the other hand, by putting a professional diplomat as foreign minister, there is a danger of moving the issue of foreign policy into other cabinets. This is not good, and in any case it will not contribute to the importance of our foreign policy priorities. As far as KIM is concerned, and I must add, apart from this, that we have heard today that without preconditions, talks about KIM will be held, it is very positive, however, we must make sure that the events are moving at a high speed and that sometimes there is an inequality of two authorities. If the president of the Republic asks for the UN's mandatory presence, the government at the same time announces unconditional or unprepared talks with Pristina. Also, future officials of this government declare the day before yesterday, for what I hold them to my word, that no one will ever shake Hashim Thaci's hand. If we are to raise dialogue to a political level, please see this problem through a serious prism or someone will shake hands at the level of the president or at the level of the prime minister. So this government will have an extremely difficult task on the subject of KIM, which cannot be solved only by calling for a naked consensus on a principled basis, but by consensus on how you will resolve the question of Valac, Gazivoda, how you will solve the issue of Telecom, the call number, and much more important is the question of the north of KIM, churches and monasteries, property and exiled persons. It won't be enough to have Quasipatriot passwords fired here again and those who have learned to tread politically only in the heat, now trying the same things to solve this really huge problem waiting for you, Mr. Dacic. Knowing you personally, and knowing your energy, and knowing that both you and the other G17 ministers and the Socialist Party of Serbia, not only voted for the agreements, but also certified them with your signature, I am, be sure, standing here in front of you, knowing that you and I know well how hard it was, and how long it may be time for you to convince your partners in the government, that neither someone has imposed solutions on us nor given us naked papers to accept, do not give God, nor have they been done secretly, nor have they been done without the Assembly, nor have they been done without the Government. After all, the only thing the government adopted were agreements, and what the government adopted was signed by Mirko Cvetkovic or Ivica Dacic. Therefore, I am proud to have this opportunity today, to say this to you before the entire opposition and authority, because this shows that this government has two important segments where realistically, modernly, in the spirit of time and problems arises. I'm sure you'll have our support for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u623	Thank you. Mr. Samardzic, on what grounds do you just say? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u624	Mr Stefanovic said there is a statisticalally small party in this parliament that wants to derail us from the European Union's path. I was quoting him. I'll just comment on the dictionary. The detour is an old dictionary from about 30, 40, 50 years ago, at a time when the opposition was indeed statistically small and when it was called extremist. This is only about language, this is only the language of the former totalitarian regime, and I am terribly sorry that Serbia's history repeats itself. At the time, the communists cared as much about Kosovo as those who use the same dictionary today. Their true face is seen in the words they use, and it is good that they are used unconsciously, and not knowing that these are just repeated words from an old history that we should forget. They forgot her in some strange way by keeping their words. These words also produce these works, and the main works are what they did in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u625	Replica Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u626	First, I can have all sorts of guesses, who this little party might be. I said the Democratic Party of Serbia in one completely different context. Dear Professor. Samardzic isn't someone I'd like to incriminate with such epithets, but I need to tell you something else. When we talk about a detour, I usually wish for such debates in this assembly and I hope that there will be them around ideological divisions, since it is not enough in Serbia, and especially, as you can see, in this garden of slopes of color called the regime. I have to tell you that Mr. Wolfie spoke more of a detour yesterday, so he inspired me to mention a detour. The one you're alluding to is miles away from maybe some people in our close history, who may be your role models. That's what I'm proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u627	The next registered speaker is Mr Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u628	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's little time left and I'll make sure to leave time for our young colleagues. First, I want to say that tonight, knowing what kind of government will be elected tomorrow, the main change needed by Serbia is a change in the political system. No one, but none of our citizens at Djurjevdan, voted in favour of a government like this. She'll be legal without a doubt. But the question arises – does such a structure have full legitimacy? It's not just a fail-safe of this government. I don't call anyone person or any political party here, but it's very clear that we have to work together to connect what the citizens want with what is ultimately the product of our electoral and political system has a much stronger bond. That is why, and the DS has suggested this on several occasions, we will need to move from the system of proportional elections with the ownership of a mandate that gives these results, to something that still has a very strong dose of the majority system. So that connection between what the citizens want and what the government is, eventually it gets much bigger. I just want to make a few remarks and ask a few questions about what's exposed, because this exposé looks like that exposé of Mirko Cvetkovic, especially at the moment of reconstruction. We have a great continuity that is personal, and also in ideas, the part about infrastructure is what the DS has proposed for these elections. There are few deadlines, few ideas about how the stated goals will be achieved. I must say that I agree, for the first time, with the central issues of Serbia, which is demographics, and that is the root of all the problems of our public finances, and then many of the problems that have been carried out. The term of office only partially processed it, he spoke to those measures to be more fertilising, but he did not make the conclusions needed around the length of the working century that we will have to have in decades that come and many other elements. Now I would limit myself to a few specific questions that I believe are of interest to our citizens about the economic and social aspects of your exposure, Mr Dacic. First question-- you said the SAA had to change. I thank my colleagues from the DSS who showed in one article, Article 41 provides for protection mechanisms. But what we heard today is the intention to fully revise the key part of those Stabilisation Trade Agreements. It has been ratified by the parliaments of 26 member states, only Lithuania has not done so yet. It was ratified by the European Parliament, as well as this home. Therefore, deeper analyses and good changes to the agreement mean that all these parliaments adopt such changes. That didn't happen. That is why I hope that this is not an invitation that would suit one of Croatia, which is our partner, but also a trade competitor, who recently asked us to reopen the issue of a trade relationship stabilisation agreement between Croatia and our country when it enters the EU. Here we must be careful and wise to lead this country ship, not to open negotiations that will ultimately help us more than it will help us. The second question is pay and pension. You said there was no freezing, but you said at the same time that, at least in the first year, things would be consistent with the resources available. The second question is: will you not or will you settle wages and pensions according to what is foreseen under the current Law in October? The way I understand this is that this alignment is going to be less. The third question is a matter of fiscal policy, where almost nothing has been said. If fiscal policy is to change, to reduce the deficit, do you announce an increase in VAT. If so, when and to what extent? The next question is a matter of bureaucracy, which you announce will be reduced, but we do not see in what way and in what extent. So the question I ask and what is natural is – in what size will you reduce bureaucracy, how many people will be fired, in which public enterprises and in which ministries? When we talk about the professionalisation of public enterprises, I would not like to personalise it, but we also have fellow MPs here, if it is going to be a professionalisation of the management of public enterprises, will Mr. Bajatovic continue to be the head of the "Serbian", will this be the story in the media, will Mr. Skundric be the head of the EPS, or will there be a public competition for these companies, where there will be no political membership of the superior criterion? I wonder the same thing, when you talk about a stable course of dinars, do you announce the introduction of a fixed course of dinars? If you announce that, when will you introduce him, on what level and to what level of our foreign reserve will you defend them? Will you defend that level to the last dinar or euro of our reserves? Finally, when we talk about health care, a very important segment where one of your most qualified personnel is delegated, that segment is led by our old one, and your current same coalition partner from the URS. We have major deficits, you announce the expansion of the positive drug list, the reduction of participation, and we know what the deficits are. From what means, how will you finance this, do you announce an increase in health insurance contributions and under what conditions? It's just a small set of very serious questions that, unfortunately, the prime minister didn't handle. Now I'd like to conclude my presentation with a personal remark for you, Mr. Dacic. I've had the opportunity to work with you and my colleagues for the past few years. I believe most people in this assembly will agree with the observation that it is a politician of credibility and caliber. You've decided to become Prime Minister in this council and under these circumstances. It is past Pasic's time, past the time of those who are several times prime ministers, on several occasions. One time it happens. With DS, you've been able to duplicate your number of votes. We had a certain ideological unity, we were on our way to form perhaps a larger block of the centre of the left and left in our country. You're going the other way. I believe you've thought this through, but I'm sure it's best for God to help you in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u629	Thank you. The next word came from MP Balsa Bozovic. I remind you, it's time for your group to take five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u630	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you know, in the last few weeks all we have heard are criticisms and remarks at the expense of DS, until the citizens heard nothing new, no proposal, heard any new plan and eventually heard some new policy of the future government. Which way Serbia should go, and what good citizens of Serbia can hope for, are the essential issues that you have not finally given us an answer to. Don't make DS excuse for all that's ahead of you. The citizens want much more from you. You say, gentlemen of the SNS, that citizens voted for change. What changes you give them with the SPS, the URS, New Serbia, what changes are these when Mladjan Dinkic is in power for 12 years, when tomorrow at 12 o'clock... (President: I ask the MPs to allow the MP to continue the presentation. Excuse me, Mr. Bozovic. )......................................................................................................... When are you going to get a 12 o'clock tomorrow, today at noon you get a government that sits half the ministers of the former government? What changes are these when Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic spoke a few days ago about how the ranks in the homes of health, in the clinical and hospital centres, and this health resort G 17, along with Mladjan Dinkic, ran for 12 years. Not to mention the Velija Ilic who promoted stealing as a value in this society or these former... (President: I ask Mr Bozovic not to use offensive expressions and thus not to treat candidates for ministers and MPs. I'm sorry, I was just quoting Mr. Velimir Ilic. Are these former juries, too, who you have at your hands in your party, guaranteed that change will happen for the better? From 2008 to today, despite the crisis, the DS which was the backbone of the government is... (President: I ask the National Assembly to maintain its dignity and ask the MPs, since we have a few minutes left until the end of the debate, to listen patiently and patiently to the speaker and to finish the work. I'll make up for the time we've taken from you by this intervention. Here you go. I thank you. Despite the crisis, the government whose backbone was DS has produced great results. The fact that you invited Milica Delevic into your government gives only recognition to our European integration policy. The fact that Mr. Vukic spoke to me yesterday about the results in the fight against organised crime is actually a recognition of our policy in the fight against organised crime. We have no further dilemmas that this government is gone, nor will it have politics, so let's not be angry about taking our policy. Take, gentlemen of the SNS, our policy and implement it, because that is the only way you care about the interests of Serbian citizens. We will, in the end, be to you of course a harsh opposition but also principled. Unlike you, we will vote and support every European law. We will also propose European laws. To end, when I'm saying all this, I don't want it to turn out that this government shouldn't get a chance. This government has to get its chance, and that's why we're leaving you to show the government what you promised in the first 100 days, to show the citizens whether you're going to brutally change their standard of living, as you promised during this election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u631	Thank you. Next reported is MP Janko Radakovic, two minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u632	Thank you. I have only one question for you, since I have no inspiration for the speech, since the general minister, vice president, secretary, has already been asleep for over an hour, has not been in the O.R. for more than an hour during your address. I think Mr. Wolf needs to work a lot more, and less sleep while he's in a lot of positions. (President: Please, there is really no point in treating this home and Mr. Vukic in this way. ) I have one question only for Mr. Prime Minister and I ask him to answer me, since he did not answer Mr. Sutanovac, which is, since I have heard that one minister is building one corridor, the other minister is building another corridor, who is building a corridor of the Aegean channel? Is it Mr. Mrkonjic, Mr. Ilic or Mr. Bačević or is it the only task Mr. Bačević has to lift the land conversion regulation so that he can allow Milan Bek not to pay 120m euros for the conversion of Luke Belgrade. I know you'll bring it in within six months... (President: I ask the speaker not to use such insinuations, which offends the dignity of the people who are members of this house or who are future ministers. What did I hurt myself with? (President: You have stated your claims that some of the future ministers intend to do something that is not in accordance with the law. Live and see. Within six months, the regulation will be repealed. (President: You can't talk like that. Please bring your debate down to what the Rules of Procedure predicts. ) For the end, I would just quote Mr. Vukic, since what he said on January 23, 2012, he best speaks about what he is and what the future government is like: "I will not be in executives with the people of the SPS. When I say so, that's how it's gonna be. I would go with those I say all of this, what a man, what a liar and a fraud I would be. People would say, "Behold, he's got his hands on the armchairs, and now he's come up with a solution for the people." No, I won't, I won't. ".
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u633	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word, or no more time for parliamentary groups, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have not used their rights or anyone else who has not used his right to do so in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u634	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, since I've listened to you all so patiently, I don't know when we started, it doesn't matter, one hour to talk and then we'll be done. I don't know what to say and who to tell, because many of those who have made certain remarks, I think it would be too masochistic to expect me to comment on their grades or to tell them something, when they're not there right now. In any case, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate. I understand that the debate was more of a political character than it was about the very exposé and the choice of a new government, about the government's programme and objectives, which is also completely normal. I do not believe that one of you really expects that any candidate for prime minister, or prime minister for the formation of the new government, could ever get to know the whole policy and all that will be done in the next term of office. That was neither when we chose the previous prime minister nor when we chose Mr. Kostunica twice. At the time, I did not participate in the work of the republic's parliament, and when it was Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, etc. Exposes serve as soon as possible to express in a summary way, to present something that would be a framework for the work of the future government. Accordingly, in the exposé it is impossible to answer some of the questions that represent essential and often very painful places for Serbia and our country's fate. It cannot be expected that in one exposé, without any dialogue, without any assembly decisions, parliament decisions or discussions of all political actors, solutions are now being presented for all political problems of the state and national character, including a list of economic or any other measures to be taken in the coming period. But everyone has to go, Shakespeare said that, from sleep, to goal. If you don't know where you're going, wherever you go, you're in the wrong place. This is where I tried to express the concept of society and the state I stood for. I tried to bring out what I think and see that Serbia should look like. That's why you're right when you say there are several different concepts in the world today. There is a liberal concept, there is a concept of folk parties and there is a concept of social democratic parties. And in this coalition there are parties of both types. SNS and G17, first of all, are inclinating the folk group. The SPS, the PUPS-JS, the Socialdeocratic Party is harder and are a social democratic bloc. In this sense, there is now a major controversy and a struggle between these two concepts in the EU as well. I have already said that Angela Merkel advocates forming, in fact, democracy, or government in society, is formed in accordance with market rules. The social democratic options speak of the market having to correspond to democracy. It cannot be expected that there is now a model in Serbia that will reconcile these two options, if we have not come to this at EU level. So today, at the level of Europe, these two models are being discussed and combined. In addition, the EU's latest decisions have been to compromise, fiscal discipline, in this case, reducing deficits, fiscal responsibility, but also fostering economy, development, which Social Democrats advocate. In essence, the problem is what I said in the exposé, that it's a false dilemma -- is it savings or development? In Europe, both are being applied today. You criticized me, from the DSS, because, and I think you rightly asked that question, but I cannot solve the problem that exists in Serbia, which primarily refers to our political parties almost not paying attention to ideological issues at all, and this is the question by which parties should differ in the world. We here today, if some other time, were to be a more serious political scene in Serbia, we should compete over it, we and the Social Democrats should advocate bigger taxes, more progressive taxes, more taxes on the rich, as far as health care is concerned, free education, and you right-wing people should criticise all of this. It's not like that. That's not so, because everyone's trying to tell in an election campaign what voters like to hear. But when the elections are over, we have to run this country. It is true, Mr Djelic said one sentence, that no one voted for this government. That's probably true, because this government didn't even go to the polls. But also, no one voted for that previous government either. That's what you have to be aware of. The government was made, first of all, by my decision, by a decision imposed by the SPS and personally risked going to the coalition together with the PUPS and the JS, with the DS. The same question that you're asking today, we had at the time as a question that had been asked us before, or they weren't quite yet, because they left us behind, so they went with you last time, Kostunica, on the pretext that you wouldn't come with us, and then I decided that you wouldn't manage our lives. What do you have to determine with whom we can? Therefore, you watch what your party will do. I have nothing to answer to, I answer to the citizens of Serbia and the voters who will give the court whether we are wrong or not in forming a government. Of course, I appreciate everything you've been saying. I didn't consult with the DSS because you were supposed to talk to your SNS partners first. I also think that, and I say it openly, it was not possible to make a coalition in which the DSS would be, because of its stance, which primarily advocates that Serbia should not go to the EU. That's what I'm saying openly, and that's what I said. There's no secret. You are today the only party in this House to advocate it. I think that's where you're wrong, because you won Milosevic's European integration policy in 2000, and we're now in a situation where you who beat Milosevic are today against the EU, and we who inherited Milosevic are now leading Serbia into the EU. Anyway, it's now a debate for our relationship. I'm just talking about political correctness here. I didn't think it was up to me to carry out that kind of consultation, given the relationships you had with the SNS. When it comes to other political parties, these consultations are not even done with the DS, because consultation should not make a spectacle and humiliation or, I say, conduct empty talks that bring nothing. I want to thank everyone who votes yes and no. I'm sorry that there's no one from the LDP, because I just want to tell them that all the questions I've asked aren't just questions that I have to give the answers to, but all of us together. Serbia's government is implementing politics. The Serbian government is, of course, determining and leading politics, but it is Parliament that should be as the most legislative body along with the President of the Republic that we all together determine some issues that are of national and state interest. That's why I'm ready to talk about everything, and I'm ready to answer all these difficult questions, because we can't solve any issue and an open question with a head-to-sand policy. After all, if we had resolved these questions earlier, we might have resolved them more favourably than our prospects in the future. I didn't say this was the first Serbian government, I don't know where you heard me say that. I was saying that this government is not pro-Russian as some have spoken, and that's heard from the LDP and DS lines, it's neither pro-American nor pro-European, it's pro-Serbian. I think it's logical, but the only way you're reacting seems not. Don't get used to it. Anyway, I want to tell you here that this government wasn't formed by anyone on the side because if we asked on the side, we'd probably form a government between DS and SNS, why lie to each other? Why hide? If that was the goal of the U.S. administration and some others, don't tell me here now that you don't know anything about it. After all, here's tomorrow's coalition in Smederjevska Palanca between DS and SNS. So wait, who are you kidding around here? What are you talking about? So your efforts, do you know what this looks like? You're actually wrong that you didn't make a government with them. That's the point of the problem. But I'm not talking to you from the DSS, you're not combined. I am talking about a major coalition between DS and SNS, I think it should be clear to all that the Serbian government will be elected, it will have huge support in parliament, I am sure it will have more public support than the government would have made with DS, in the event of Boris Tadic's defeat in the presidential elections. It's a political reality that we all need to be aware of. Since many have gone away from those who have spoken, I don't know if to speak any further, but I haven't spoken much of the things we talked about here. We've also talked to DS, the economic program, not now, you've talked about exposés, I'm a serious politician, here are all the exposés of your prime ministers and prime ministers who were. I can give them to you to read, so compare them to my exposé. Secondly, I can also give you the economic program that we discussed in the formation of this government. So, don't just tell me about the governor, the pleasure of his work, monetary policy, economic policy, here are witnesses and my partners Jovan Krkobbic and Dragan Markovic, which we discussed when it comes to economic policy. Besides, the U.R.S. talked to you about this. You're talking about over-indebted whether the new government will be in debt, so I talked to you about the fact that it's crazy for that percentage to be 45% of the law. Other parties feel the same way. Just because you're attacking each other, you want to say -- well, this one's going to be more in charge of the country. It's not the level of duty we're producing. On the other hand, I'm telling the truth, the best means and weapons I have against in these situations is the truth, and that's what I've always said. I haven't thrown a single glass of bile at you. I'm just plowing. Of course, as you have the right to attack me, I have the right to defend myself. In this case, I am defending myself and this new government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I can tell, you're only defending yourself. Because why? You're only defending yourself because you don't know who's on whose side your party is anymore. Because the tones that are heard from your ranks are completely different and depending on whether you're preparing for certain personnel combinations. If you want to get out, there's no problem. I just don't know what you're asking me to stay the rest of the way. That you won't change your decision to vote for the government? I thank you, but you must have patience and patience. Now you're giving others lessons here, and no one's going to attack you? You're saying no one dreamed of this government? Did any of you dream this was gonna happen? Did any of you dream you'd be in opposition? So take care and be correct when talking about other political parties, rather than asking for someone to be correct to you. I'm talking here because in one of your men's presentations, you have one attitude that's opposite to the other. I don't know how to answer that kind of question. Will they melt the foreign reserves? What are you asking me? I am not an economist of this government, I am not an accountant, I am a politician, I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, not one who will be responsible for every segment of operational work in the state administration. You brought the Shoskica. You personally DS means don't transfer responsibility. We wanted to change him together. That's what the others wanted, and now you're defending him. I'm neutral, but define yourself. So in any case, Jelasic resigned on your request. Now you're talking about it's not political personnel. What personnel in the Serbian government you put in those places fell from the sky, right? It's not political personnel, is it? Special Administration Directors aren't political personnel? Now you're talking about someone wanting to commit a political crime against them? I have no intention and I don't care. It's a poor government that needs to be dealt with and where a small part of the government will be stronger than the entire government. I just want to tell you the next thing. The boss in Serbia is the people of Serbia. The tycoons, mentioned here, may have been created during Milosevic's time, may have made the first million in Milosevic's time, but the hundred million were made in your time. You know what, if we were in power together, then I expect you to be correct and say something positive about it. I didn't hear you say any positive words. You can't judge us whether we're going one way or the other. I'm not interested in parties. We have our own policy, of course I wish you all the best. We'll stay here until the vote. Let's see where the opposition parties are. DSS, good job. How do you think you're fighting this government when you can't spend one night together? No one has the copyright to democracy in Serbia. No one has copyright for any idea in Serbia, because we are on a new exam every day. You had your exam in the election and you lost the election. As of tomorrow, me and everyone in the government has a new exam. It'll be easier for you because you'll be able to criticize. I'm willing to take responsibility, because what kind of politician I would be if I wasn't willing to take responsibility. You've convinced me that I shouldn't accept the prime minister's position because it's a difficult situation. It's heavy for you, too. It's not for me. Since I no longer know who's talking or who's present, who's not present, I want to thank you all. I want to apologize to everyone if some words were sharper. Like I said, we all know each other very well. We're all here together. We have different or common political views on many issues. I have no intention of deepening divisions. On the contrary, I intend to reduce our differences. I hope that in a politically correct atmosphere, we will cultivate dialogue, come to a solution on the most important state and national issues. I see that now you're all kind of negatively commenting on what I said – God will give. As far as I know when you came to power, the gods bothered you, the patriarchs and the bishops. In the end, the Serbian church fell for the communists. Because you used it, and when you came to power, you didn't look back at them. Some of you are anathemized in that church because of the laws you wanted to pass. I'm not ashamed of that, just like I think Serbia is a world state and that it has nothing to do with each other. I'm sure God will help, but we need to help him a little. We're ready to do better than you do, to do better than we did together in the government. If my Expose was, as you say, shrub, thin, etc., if the leadership is put up in this government, I don't think that question could have been asked in the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Mirko Cvetkovic was the real leader of the government. The DS knew that forever and there was no one on the side who could order him to do what he was going to do. So you'd better keep your mouth shut. This is a bit of a joke. Let's move on. I thank you all so much. I wish you all the best. Of course, don't miss an opportunity to vote for the new Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-26-0.u635	I'm glad that the final words of the prime minister have brought back the smile on the face of most people in the O.R. I'm finishing the search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule July 27, 2012 as the Day for the vote on the government's programme and the election of presidents and members of the government. We'll approach the vote at 12.00 hours. Thank you.
