ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, today is an important day for Serbia and a great day for the SNS. I am also convinced that a day will mark a turning point for the future of our country and for the future of our people. I am proud to say that after not four years of existence, and thanks to the victory not only in the presidential but also in the parliamentary elections, today we have the opportunity to start with what we call changes in Serbia, with what we think will bring about a better improvement for the citizens of this country. We are confident that the election of the new leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will bring even more patience, mutual respect, political patience, both on the side of those who will represent the government's majority and on the side of the former regime. I am convinced that we will manage to help the country save as much money as possible at the moment of the major and severe economic crisis. That is why our proposal was to reduce the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to four. That's why we're going to try to cut the spending side of the budget in every way and increase the income. What is important for the National Assembly, it must remain a place where democracy as a form of political regime will develop in the best possible light. In this respect, our proposal is also a proposal not only for SNS, but also for the SPS, PUPS, JS, the URS, SDP and the Party of Democratic Action, it is proposed that we allow parties of the former regime, which are in opposition today to counter their will in time, to participate in the work of the Committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure have been adopted in a way that does not exist as an obligation, but it is our wish that those who think differently from today's ruling majority have the opportunity to lead committees in a significant percentage, to exercise and exercise parliamentary control over the executive power and to participate in Serbia's political life in every way possible. What is important for us today to point out and why this is a great day for all of us sitting here, first of all, to elect today the president of the National Assembly and the SNS. I'll remind the citizens of Serbia that we've been through a real googogue. And it's not a googogue that we're coming across today and throwing people out of the former regime, it's the least we could expect. Golgotha is what they did to us in the election campaign. Golgota is what Tomislav Nikolic and our party went through, where there was no lie that was not told about us, where there was no untruth that was not released through the media of the great powers, from politicians to tycoon, and somehow interfered, just in the biggest parties of the former regime. What is very important is that this is why we are proud of the fact that we will try to build and create a different Serbia, a more responsible Serbia, a Serbia that will not be counted against its political opponents, but Serbia in which there will be order, the law and the laws apply equally to all. I am obliged that today after many untrue things were brought out to the public, a number of dirty and creepy things that have been said about the people proposed by the SNS, and so today on the front page of the party newsletter of the former regime such as "Blic", news has surfaced that foreign ministers will be elected -- the guardian of Milosevic's vault. I'm sorry, I have to do it for the citizens of Serbia, and also for the people who are such, that such nonsense must be served, to announce something about this man's biography. On the aside that he's the Secretary of State at the Foreign Ministry today, that man has had a career since 1977, 35 years. He was in the UN, he was in Brussels, Japan, doing everything a career diplomat could to do, but to the unserious people and those who were involved in crime, and now they've had a lot of laughs and a little bit of work, and they think that their ridicule or loud laughter will scare someone, count that crime and corruption will never be discovered, I just want to tell them -- don't touch and attack honest people you can't say anything about, because when you do, your hands have to be clean. I was just beginning to talk about Nebojsa Stefanovic, Mr Trnavcevic. As for Nebojka Stefanovic, I am honored and proud of the fact that a young man, energetic, educated, but also patient and calm, we can propose for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Nebojsa Stefanovic was born in 1976. He finished economics, he's a master of economic science. I think his task will be and he will have to implement it, which is the spirit of tolerance, which is the spirit of Serbia's unity. I am convinced that, first of all, they will uphold the Constitution and the law at all times. That's what we fought for, and that's why he got signatures from the ruling majority. It is our job for parliament to be the controller of the executive government. It's our job to make this job easier for Mr. Stefanovic. I am convinced that with the help of all of us, he will do the job in the best possible way. I am convinced, however sneerly and ridiculously we look at it, and our people say, "Whoever laughs last laughs best, that we will bring much good to our people, and people will eventually be able to judge the work and work of each of us." I want a lot of success and happiness to Mr. Stefanovic. I am convinced that Serbia is on a much better path than it was yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u11	Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, I hope that this work will be done in five minutes, and that it will be deployed to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to the number of MPs, the time of debate is like this: The SNS MP, with 65 minus three MPs, has 78 minutes, the DS Group, 48 MPs – 57 minutes and 36 seconds, the SPS parliamentary group – 30 minutes, the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the LDP parliamentary group – 18 minutes, the Urs parliamentary group – 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the PUPS parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Nova Serbia parliamentary group – nine minutes and 36 seconds, the JS parliamentary group – eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Vojvodina Hungarians – six minutes, the Parliamentary SP – DHSS – six minutes and the LSV group – six minutes. seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. It's the time we have at our disposal. I'm opening a debate, a discussion about the proposal. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, by mutual agreement set up no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Here you go. Do any of the MPs want to talk about the proposal of the head of the SNS parliamentary group on the proposal to elect a new president, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic? Do the heads of the parliamentary groups want to speak? Yeah. Here you go, sign in. Here you go, Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u12	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot share the optimism of the promoter that this is a great day for Serbia. This is an interesting day for Serbia, as rarely as Serbia has had the opportunity to see so many changes without having changed. It says here that there will be a new twist, new wonders that will happen, but we have half the government that was in the previous government, people who have said things, defending the then government policy. Now we're in a situation that, either what they're saying doesn't apply, or that they can change their minds overnight. We have so changed the picture, the map of Serbia, from the moment the elections ended until today, that it is difficult for a man to manage in these large parliamentary groups, where he belongs. It wouldn't be so dramatic if it wasn't working on one side if we had an opposition, and on the other hand we had a ruling coalition. When it starts to change or interfere during the period when the government is to be formed, when the national will is already said, then we have a big problem and each voter has a problem now with its representative, whether it was what he wanted, what he voted for, or now it's one combination of politicians trying to bring down to a normal trade of interest which in every business organisation or market there is and should exist, in accordance with their interests. It is a big problem and Serbia will either have to change the electoral law, or to introduce some order, so that the voter knows who he voted for, which programme he chose, what he wanted, and not that something else was going on afterwards. That's why I don't think it's a big day for Serbia, on the contrary, one day when it has to think about what politics is, how citizens can come to their interest, and that's basic. The second question here was an invitation for tolerance. However, a representative of the Progressive Party of Serbia has somehow served in a few first sentences by calling for tolerance later, but when we elect the president, he has conducted one part of his presentation in a single-listed half-term, accusing the opposition, referring to the foreign minister, although today we do not choose him, but we elect the president. I understand all this as an inability to refrain from one tension far from any tolerance, and it is in line with the ambitions expressed in public, to be minister of the military, minister of all services and all forces and all secret intelligence services, etc. Such ambition is dangerous in the country. I'm not going to say that Mr. Vukic's ambitions are like that, but I warn him it's not good to try to show a desire for all forms of power, secrets, military forces and everything else. We are pleased that the ruling majority, primarily including the Progressive Party of Serbia and its V.D. The president, accepted our programme, that the basic orientation for which the DS has been fighting for more than 20 years, which is why it has been attacked, persecuted, called treasonous and all, has finally turned out to be that Europe, with little exception, here around all parties and this great majority, suddenly has no alternative. For a very long time in our political life, as citizens know, it has been a bauk and it has taken a lot of courage to endure a peaceful policy, against war, and to a policy of European integration which, I say, is a common line of all European peoples. Finally, some came to this knowledge after 15 years of political struggle in Serbia, and some after 20 years. Better ever than ever, but don't forget that this is our European organization policy, our policy of peaceful problem-solving, our policy of good neighbourly relations, our policy of reconciliation among the nations. It's politics, you say it's yours, okay, but we're here too, and we're going to be a very serious, strict opposition, to monitor whether it's just verbal acrobatics or if you've really managed to make such a mental effort, to change so quickly and so effectively. We will, of course, cultivate a spirit of tolerance, respect. If you remember that, you know very well where they came from, from which group, the ugliest turns out in this House, the worst insults in this House. I could write a book about the insults I've been made, but find the one I insulted. Therefore, do not give us a lesson and appeal to tone, tolerance, respect for opponents, etc. That's funny, the citizens have been watching this congregation for 20 years. I don't know how you're gonna solve your problems. You promise a lot. We want to see, for Serbia's sake, it would be good to make 5% of it, but since these aren't new people, and that's what you wanted, there's almost no, in these governments that are mentioned, people who haven't already been in a government can count on their fingers, and many have participated in various governments full of their capacity. Then when you try to blame the previous government for all the evils of this country, don't forget some of the most important representatives with the most important mandates in your government. We won't let you go just so it turns out that only a few of our ministers are wrong, if anything was wrong with the previous government, but we'll discuss it in detail. I want this assembly to be ruled by the spirit of tolerance, to stop manipulation, especially by threats that some tend to threaten, because that's why their former political "running" comes to life, that people don't forget what they were and what they were doing. We haven't forgotten anything about who was here in this House and what he was doing. The Democratic Party will be a serious, harsh opposition, every turning away from what was our policy that you now want to execute, at least that's how you show it. Every time you turn away from it, in a way, we will react sharply to what we have brought to this people's threshold, to be a candidate for the EU, to be in front of reforms, to be in front of negotiations, to be in front of the rebirth of this society. Not only is European integration and resolving Kosovo's problem the only problems this society has. It has a lot of structural problems, starting with poverty, from the fall of education, from great unemployment, there is a lot of what is the result of the global or European crisis, and there are mistakes that we have all made together. Let us not forget that some of the mistakes made 20 years ago, we still pay them, both in the backdrop of the economy, both in the backdrop of political culture and in the backdrop of many institutions. It's all the result of our historical movements, it's all right. Let's see what can be done now. If you know each other in the morning, this first speech I've heard doesn't give you that hope. I hope that during the debate, especially when the government is presenting its programme, we will have the opportunity to discuss in more detail how we see Serbia and not just how anyone would charge Serbia. Let us forget that the campaign is over and that this one manner of continuous media attempt to deflanate opponents, etc., this is about election campaigns, and later here in the Assembly we need to discuss the laws, the ways we want to go, and this should be our programme, to listen to each other, and with full tolerance and argument we are having a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u13	Replica? The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, I didn't understand you, Mr. Micunovic, I respect you very much, which threats you're talking about or someone told you in advance what someone should say, even though that's not what you're talking about. What threats are you talking about? That we should work together in Parliament? About changing Serbia? That in Serbia you have to live much better than you've lived until today? Is that a threat to you, Mr. Micunovic? If those are threats to you, Mr. Micunovic, we will make those threats come true. But those are not threats, they are hopes for Serbia, Mr. Micunovic. You've been talking here for ten minutes and you haven't said a word about the proposal. You haven't said a word, and you haven't even been warned by the chairman, and I'm being warned because I said one thing in the system of lies of the Democratic Party, which you've been making for years about certain people, putting them on the black wallpaper, as you did with Ivan Mrkic this morning. The whole time you were talking about me, about SNS, and you didn't say a word about Nebojsa Stefanovic, who at this point is on the agenda, and then you tell others to change the subject. You're talking about giving hope. What insult did you hear? What ugly word did you hear? What kind of unpleasant word did you hear? Not one word unless the unpleasant word for you is change. Change will be, whether you like it or not, Mr. Micunovic, and point. As far as half of the previous government is concerned, they're the same ones you've been negotiating with 20 days ago to rebuild the government. The same ones you wanted to make government again, so they were good. They're no longer good to you. They're the same ones you said you should continue on the same path. You said – this is today set up as some kind of business organization. He can go anywhere he wants with whoever he wants. You made every political party in Serbia today, which was in power, most of all, not as a business party, but as a tycoon organisation, Mr Micunovic. To the tycoon organization! That the biggest tycoons today are not the ones we've heard about for decades, but are the biggest tycoons in your ranks, Mr. Micunovic. To give us a lecture, to teach us lessons, to tell us who the government was sitting in? We did, we're not ashamed, we've suffered political punishment for it. If we've stolen something somewhere, punish us, you still rule, another day. Well, you didn't have any actions. Mr. Micunovic, you are the only one in power longer than all the people, all 60 here and some SNS people. Only you personally, without talking about everyone else, and you're telling us about who's responsible for what in Serbia. You don't think there's gonna be an answer. Be a harsh opposition, but forgive us for what you have long forgiven yourself and we will forgive you for what we have allowed ourselves to forgive. Just that we have a normal and civilized dialogue and nothing more than that. That's all we want. If you think you scared us, I don't know what, believe me, you're not at all. We want a normal Serbia in which we will work with you, to work with you. We want a normal Serbia in which we will discuss together the future of this country. But we won't allow it, as you won't allow us to lecture you, because you think your policy is better, I'm sorry, we won't allow you to give us neither sermons, nor tirads, nor lectures, especially having a 12-year experience of your reign. You say, "Better ever than never to accept the program, you do it, but if you turn away, you will correct us." I'm telling you right now, we're going to try to get off your path on the first day, because if we don't get off your path, we've both got Serbia and us. Our policy must be to get out of the way that you've been going. If we don't lead a different country, this country doesn't have a future, this country doesn't have a chance for the future. He doesn't stand a chance. You left us a budget deficit of 7.5%. We need 3.5 billion euros to find out by the end of the year. Public enterprises are sucking money. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yeah, it's funny, especially for those who knew best how to do it. I'm sorry, I can't even say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u15	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u16	Mr. Trnavcievich, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u17	Mr Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, is not allowed to address the MP, to turn it into a personal dialogue. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Trnavevich, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure and I think I'm talking to my colleagues in the most decent way possible. If you have one word to repeat which is rude, inappropriate or ugly...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u19	The Rules of Procedure do not speak of rude and polite words, but at all states that the MP does not address the other MP directly. Read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u20	No, I was talking to a group. I wasn't talking directly to a National MP. So, I want to tell you, dear friends, that we've always somehow, it seems to me, after 1994, that the election of presidents, vice presidents, committees and working bodies ended in the fastest possible way, because I think there's never been a big problem and disagreement, because we all know in accordance with the people's will to whom it belongs. These things are easily negotiated and easily concluded between the heads of the parliamentary groups and within the parliamentary groups. If you have any other plans, we don't mind. What's important to us, it's that we want you to participate in all the committees, we want you to work with us everywhere, we want you to go around the world together and represent our country. We want to do as many good things as possible for our Serbia. If you think the weight of the words you say or the rigor with which you beat anyone up especially to intimidate them here, we weren't afraid of you even when you were the most powerful and the most powerful. Believe me, you're not going to fascinate us today or scare us in particular. I only ask you once again, that before you continue these pre-election stories, because the election will not be soon to consider how much better it is for our country to share our thoughts in a tolerated, decent and civilized way in this House. I call on you once again, and I call on you to support the election of Heavenly Stefanovic, because he is the party's representative who received the largest number of votes in the elections, because it is a young, serious and responsible man. As we will support the election of your vice president, whoever is running for vice president of the DS. It seems to me that this is something normal, common, and that should lead to a calming tension in our society, not to the introduction of excess passions, which no one needs at this time. Thank you again and I wish you many successes, Mr. Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u21	Did someone ask for a word? Please, replica to replica? I was wrong to estimate that we would spend not five hours but five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u22	Maybe I wouldn't even talk about the candidate, because I just don't know the candidate, it's your choice. You've chosen him, you've got most, you'll vote him. It would be completely out of context if someone we don't know about, we don't even know who he is, he wasn't in our party, maybe he's famous in your party, but we wouldn't talk about him. You suggest it, you state its qualities and that's your right. I wouldn't have said it if it hadn't been for Mr. Wolfie's speech. Therefore, that was the reason. I am pleased that Mr. Vukic has shown that his nature does not change and that he loves this polemic spirit, attacks, etc. Because of these threats, not those spoken today, they've been saying for days, how many people who are going to get hurt, etc., that's one ton that's still, because if someone's guilty, whether they should go after them in the normal world is a matter of prosecutors and not even spoken during the trial of these people, and only when it's over. Well, you can't say in advance there's as much as we're going to banish them, we're going to do this, we arrested these, he talked to Babovic, I don't know there was a story, that you're going to tell it to the minister, etc. It all ends in the end to be forgotten, and very easily you use many insinuations or attacks, etc. That's not good. That's all I've told you, and you can draw a conclusion from it or not. I'm very pleased that you've shown that you haven't changed much and that this story of some tolerance is just one facade. The other thing that goes on here, I am the longest in power, don't make the people laugh here, you know where power is and what power is. You've been in power, you've been a minister, ministers are the government, and MPs are especially the opposition I was during your power, I guess that's not the power, we don't want to talk about it. In the end, let's leave it alone, who was in power, as far as it was, I said. If you think this is a trinket...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u23	Mr. Micunovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the time for replica is two minutes, it's up. Please take care of the Rules of Procedure we adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u24	There's no need to go further, I just wanted to explain this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u25	Once again, the president of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, Mr Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u26	Mr. Micunović, I have no experience that you have. I respect you very much, but I ask you, no matter what threat to Mr. Micunovic, spoken to anyone, unlike you who didn't just threaten, but put the threat into action? What threat are you talking about, which one of you is something I said wrong, and believe me, I would? What representative of the Democratic Party or any other party you've heard me say will be arrested or prosecuted? Name one name for me, Mr. Micunovic. You don't have any names, Mr. Micunovic, because that's not what I'm playing at. I graduated from law school in Belgrade with the best grades, as you know. Don't make things up that aren't true. I ask you, tell me now, did I say any of your colleagues will be arrested or prosecuted? I said we'd chase criminals and chase criminals, and we'd go after corrupt people, and I said we'd work with people from the Serbian Progressive Party, so what bothers you? You're distracted by the pragmatic spirit. What were you thinking? You're gonna come out, you're gonna show up and we're gonna shut up? Is that what you expected? You haven't found a word of insult, you haven't found a single threat. Show Mr. Micunovic who I was talking about and who I referred any threat to? He's gone. But you learned the same story, you were then, I don't know what, and that's all. Mr. Micunovic, I want to talk about the future, and I'm not ashamed of the past, because there's only one thing I can tell you about the past. I've had a lot of mistakes in my life, and all of us, but I've never stolen anything. Well, because I didn't steal it, I'm very happy that I can look you and everyone else in the eye and tell you in person, and you have nothing to say to me. You can't even imagine how good that makes me feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u27	Mr. Wolfie, you've exceeded your line time. I don't think there's any point in continuing. Thank you. Are there any reported, who wants a word? Alexandra Jerkov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, first of all, I would like to thank MP Vukic for this lesson in democracy and tolerance. I don't think Professor Micunovic will mind, because I'm going to answer for him. Do you know this picture? It is you who keep in this room a prison shirt for Mladjan Dinkic, whom you then stated to be the biggest thief Serbia has ever seen, to whom you had to pay some compensation for suing you for slander, so we remember you well. We also remember you from 2008, and in 2007, from 2002, from 1992, and we won't think for a moment that in 2012 you are different than you were in 2002, 1992, 1997 or any other year. So you can tell us about democracy, about tolerance, about human rights, about the rights of MPs, but the fact is that in this assembly, the representatives of the opposition were always members of the board. The opposition representatives were committee presidents, and that's something anyone who knows who was in this assembly, that's something the Rules of Procedure regulates, and that's something that you won't change by ten or 110 speeches you can give in this assembly. When we talk about a proposal for the President of the Assembly, I think it is more interesting than the very name of the candidates to see who these MPs are, who make these proposals, which parties and what parliamentary groups are behind this proposal. Now the question is, what is it that connects all these parliamentary groups? What is all this that connects these political parties and these MPs? Is this an idea, is it a picture of what Serbia should look like in the next period? If she did, where was she a month ago, two months ago or just two weeks ago? Which is why neither we nor the voters knew that all these parties had a common vision of what Serbia should look like and where Serbia should go? Much more important than that poor thing we didn't know, the question is why the citizens didn't know it, and why the citizens who voted for you didn't know what kind of coalition in Serbia would be made, and where will this coalition lead Serbia? In this coalition that is now formed in this congregation majority, there is no one who until two months ago has claimed not to arrest the other the second he comes to power. As I have already shown, Mladjan Dinkic, in this assembly, you have already prepared a prison shirt here. In another party, however, only a few years ago, Zoran Krasic, who was protected by Tomislav Nikolic, called the vice president of the G17 Plus party a Ustasha. Then the SRS, you in it, Tomislav Nikolic in it, did not react, but instead took Zoran Krasic for protection. You, among other things, threatened arrests, more or less to anyone who is sitting with you in the government right now. Mladjan Dinkic claimed he lied to 1,000 euros in free action just because Tomislav Nikolic would not win the election. Now, Mr. Dinkic, tell us why you really lied about 1,000 euros in free action? Because it obviously makes no difference to you, whether Serbia is run by the Democratic Party, or the Serbian Progressive Party. Did you lie about your election success, or someone else's election success? You also owe an explanation for the lie you gave a few months ago, when you said at the republic's level, under no conditions will we enter into a coalition with the Serbian Progressive Party and the Serbian Radical Party. That's absolutely certain, February 22, 2012. After that, you said, on April 24, 2012, ironically, the site I quote is called "The Truthomer", "there was no conversation about it, and there will be no URS under any conditions to enter the government with the SNS". But that wasn't enough for you, so you still dared to invite the DS to define itself, whether it would go into coalition with the SNS, because the URS certainly won't do it. Dinkic about Vukic on June 30th 2012, and we all remember that from this assembly, because that's what you said about this pay phone right here in this room - you're a murderer, so many people indirectly killed to surprise me how you can get out. That's what you said in this room when Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this isn't the end. We all remember, Mrs. Tabakovic won't mind me saying this when Mladjan Dinic called her a dog in this room. It was something that was terrible to all of us who have any democratic consciousness, no matter which party we belong to. Not only did you do it, but then you didn't want to take it back or apologize, as only elementary courtesy would have imposed without talking about something else. Also on January 5th 2011, Vukic told Ivica Dacic that a liar was testified and, as usual, invented. On 5 January 2011, Dacic showed his complexes. Wolf on 4 December 2011 – even God cannot force me to enter the power supported by the SPS. However, on that occasion you didn't say anything about entering the SPS-led power, so maybe we can forgive you and tolerate you as if this wasn't an SPS-supported power.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u29	Dear Miss Jerkov, I am not at all comfortable reminding you and reminding you that we have started a debate on the candidate, Master Nebojsa Stefanovic, to assess and hear whether he is qualified by your assessment and whether he enjoys your support or not to be the president of the National Assembly. You open other topics and do the same injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which is to mention and to address other MPs. This is not a good sign that this congregation will appreciate the time. Please speak if you can for the next two, three minutes about it, because he's the only MP. If you'd had a better one, you'd have run for it. You didn't use that right, and that's why you're talking about Master Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u30	Mr Trnavcevic, I believe there are a lot of better MPs, but an integral part of the proposal, among other things, is the proposing. I'm talking about novices right now. I'm finishing the discussion. I'm running out of time anyway. I'll just go back to one more thing that I think is important. It's a talk in a television show between Dragan Sutanovac and Aleksandr Vukic, when Vukic said, "You, not that you are in power with mobsters and criminals, but with murderers. You've let these SPS killers handle your public enterprises. Where'd the suitcase go? "Now I ask you, Mr. Vukic, where did the suitcase go, where the stolen votes you brought in the sacks, where Tomislav Nikolic acquired his university education? Unfortunately, the only thing we had today was a chance to see when we formed a new majority in the Serbian Parliament is that all the criteria and all the ideas are lost in the government negotiations, but all the happiness that Serbian citizens will be able to recognize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u31	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know what to tell you about this. I knew you'd be talking here all the time about Alexander Wolfie, but I figured you'd find something else. I have to answer everything you've asked as a question because that's what you're asking me, who you've been chosen in Novi Sad with the help of those murderers you just talked about, whose voices you prayed for until four o'clock a.m. just the other night so you can keep stealing and robbing, just like you've stolen and robbed in the last 10 years in Novi Sad. Is that what you were talking about? Are those the same people? The case disappeared in your judicial reform in what you did against the state of Serbia. In that reform of the judiciary, which you have conducted and which you are proud and boast about, that case has disappeared. You said here - since 1992. I don't know how you've known me since 1992. I didn't do public work back then. You've read something wrong, and you've confused something. As for everything else, you know, you and these people made a coalition, and then I told my talker on the show that you called them killers, not me. You called them murderers so you didn't mind making coalitions with murderers, and today you're gonna hold someone moral sermons and someone who, unlike you, didn't hug or kiss them? We will neither hug or kiss with Ivica Dacic nor Mladjan Dinkic, nor those with us as you hugged and kissed, and all for money, and not for politics and all because of your pockets being deeper, that you have more and that the people are getting smaller. Regardless of all that, we, as you can see, will patiently and patiently listen to it all. I won't deny a single word I said, which I'm not asking of those who spoke of me. The only thing I ask of those we're going to cooperate with is to do something much better for our country than what you did in the previous period. That's a big difference between you and us. We will ask those with whom you have agreed that the theme and target be SNS and Alexander Vucic, and that they select you to a certain location in Novi Sad for up to four hours, how long will they be able to support you... (President: Mr. Wolf, two minutes are up. )......................................................................................................... Or maybe it's no place for us to be supported by them or that we don't support them because, you know, it's just to be seen, and you tell the people what we've been robbing, and we're going to tell the people what everyone's been robbing in this country. The people's justice is the most needed right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u33	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mladjan Dinkic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u34	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's say something after all. There are too many hard words here brought out by Mrs. Jerkov. First thing, I've never lied, not even about free citizen action. In 2007, when I proposed to share free shares of the most valuable public enterprises, I believed deeply that their price would be 1,000 euros. I would never promise and say that if I didn't believe it. What didn't I know then? I didn't know two things. First, I did not know that at that point, no direct contract was agreed for the sale of NIS at a price which is six, seven times lower than the actual market price. That was agreed by Boris Tadic. I thought at the time it was some deal by some other people. How do I know Boris Tadic arranged this? Because when the job ended at a diplomatic dinner in front of several hundred people with an envoy from Russia, I publicly admitted that, while walking with Poltavchenk, in 2007 he agreed to sell the NIS in that way. Today, market capitalisation is NIS 5 billion euros. Serbian citizens should know that something worth five billion euros today, sold for 800 million. So, at a much lower price. The NIS's rate per market capital is five billion euros today, as only profits in the last year were 400m euros. Market capitalisation is five billion euros. If NIS was sold at market price then the stock would be worth...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u35	Mr. Dinkic, I must remind you that you have exceeded your time for replication. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that in Rule 109, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the President, or the Chairman, has the right to give notices to an MP who, despite the warning, speaks of a matter that is not on the agenda, that is, I have tried twice to draw your attention, which is directly to another MP and if he uses profanity and offensive expressions. It's been said a couple of times here, "stealing," and so on. Please, we are MPs gathered here to work out how to do better. Maintain yourself, choose the words, the Serbian language is very rich. Make sure you don't hurt the Rules of Procedure and get a warning. You're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u36	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not answer to Mr. Vukic so that other representatives of the parliamentary groups can speak about the agenda. All I'm going to say is that by watching him speak from the place he's speaking from, I can only say that he just took off the badge and that every moment I expected him to pull out the sign "Safe House for Ratko Mladic", as he has already done in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u37	Alexander Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u38	Mr. Trnavcievich, I didn't challenge any replicas today. So, I was just responding to those who mentioned me personally. I am grateful to you, Miss Jerkov, for your personal hatred. If it's necessary, I'll help you write Alexander Vukic's memoirs together. I don't mind. I didn't mention Mr. Mladic today, nor did I mention Mr. Seselj, nor anyone, but I suppose so much hatred over the fact that you lost the election, and that you still need to be supported by the SPS, you can't say a word about them, so your target is SNS and I myself. You carry on like that, and we'll do our job - to change Serbia. Respecting you, I will not say a word to you, but we will see that we rule this country in a much better way than you did in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u39	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u40	Thank you. I'll try and hope to refrain from this attack before I start speaking by a member of the new ruling coalition. That's how I'll understand it because I see that the spirit of reckoning with previous coalition partners is something that predominates in previous exposure. Mr. Zechariah, believe me, I know what I'm going to talk about, it's my choice, and it has nothing to do with you. I'll try to follow a subject that's very important. I fully understand the current course of discussion. He is expected and every day we witness this relationship with the institutions of this country, such as the Assembly or the Government, and the motives that prevail in the participants of this process for forming a government and for forming some kind of strategy. At first, the LDP parliamentary group will be the opposition. We will not support the proposal to elect the president of the assembly. We don't consider ourselves part of the ruling majority. As in the previous two governments in us, you will always have a constructive partner to talk about, not in the way that the other or parts of some parliamentary groups do it very openly. We tell you in advance – every European idea and law we will support, and everything we think is bad we will tell you at meetings in the Assembly, as well as here. As for that, I think it's enough to inform one normal and healthy relationship. I have to say, at the beginning of a protest, I think it's very important. He's referring to two things. I hope that doesn't mean that the Assembly and some kind of political life in the period ahead of us will work that way. In fact, it's highly unusual for us to get a biography and a proposal just minutes before the meeting for such an important place. This may be one of the less important reasons why we would not be willing to support it. I just don't think that's a good way to work. In the previous assembly session, we were opposition and I must say that despite this, we had excellent co-operation with former Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I hope it stays that way in the future. However, I think it is extremely inappropriate for the Assembly to have four vice-presidents of which I see the SPS has already proposed two. One from G17 plus, and one from PUPS. No matter what you answer, we don't see a way to save money. The vice presidents of the Assembly have no cabinets, no cars, no cell phones, no secretaries, they are the same as all of us, but they are members of a political body called the National Assembly College. By taking away our right to have a vice president, you take away our right to participate in the work of the Assembly, in its preparation. So we won't know, or your will will depend on whether we know which laws come on the agenda, what the topics are. Let us face it sharply and simply try to find a way for such a thing not to happen or at least to be more observant to the opposition. We recognize that in this intention, I hope by mistake. As far as the candidate's biography for the president of the assembly is concerned, I must say, the personal context absolutely does not occur to us to comment. It's not a topic, it's a topic of politics. Unfortunately, we do not see the possibility that it is a person who will bear this kind of political integrity, which will allow the Assembly to perform the functions you spoke of – control of money spending, control of government's work. You skipped one thing, and it's the most important thing for this country. In the previous four years, the congregation has worked more than ever. This is my fourth term, and I don't remember any more laws being passed than in the previous session. In this process of European integration, which has been a pawn, there has been a point in which lawmaking is no longer the most important. The most important thing is to control the implementation. These laws were passed, it was the most serious objection to the previous ruling majority and the part of the ruling majority, which is again the ruling majority, which is not implementing those laws. So, in order for this Assembly to be a serious driver of society, if there is such a will, it must find ways to control the implementation of laws that have already been passed. That's the first assignment. Other tasks – financial control, spending money, etc., are all announced. It's not something we expect any government to be its own controller. I said this, just so there's no confusion, I wasn't talking about the integrity of Mr. Stefanovic's personality, I don't know him, so I can't talk about it, but simply from that biography is visible only party work. From our perspective, he's a man who's capable of being a member of a party, he's reached the post of vice president, and there's all we can appreciate about his work so far. When someone comes only along that line to be president of the assembly, they are clear expectations. We think that this relationship with the party will remain in the future. So much for that. You'll have a conversation in us, we'll always be able to tell you our opinions, and it's not some secret, it's more or less clear about all the political things and we're just here to work. We are certainly not going to be someone who is without reason holding back the work of the Serbian Parliament. What you started with and which is essentially the most important political topic, you are in the formation of this coalition and the first selection of some kind of functioner from that so-called. The new coalition, which was formed after the elections, called a turning point for the country's future. I'm sure it is from your perspective. I think it's a turning point and I don't agree with the colleagues who commented. Also, I think it's about the end of an era and the beginning of some new era in this country's life. However, a turning point in itself does not have to be good or bad. Changes in society, when someone advocates some changes, these changes don't have to be better. Why would they be? So let's not question the will of anyone who takes any new duty to change things for the better. What are objective factors, that's actually what people's ability to deal with, and we see the problem in that sense. So, if we can agree on the key problems of our society and these are, above all, the economic situation in society, the issue of European integration, the issue of Kosovo, the issue of reform, the system change in the country, we do not see in any way any momentum that we as a country might be able to capture and push these changes in the direction that the LDP parliamentary group thinks is necessary. So neither of your announcements see the development or strengthening of the market, we see one new policy and a new relationship with Kosovo, a new relationship in these negotiations, no more secret negotiations than negotiations whose results are respected, etc. There's a principled desire, but when you talk about specific details, that thing doesn't look like it. What's important is that the citizens of Serbia know and that's that these bickerings between the two so-called. The biggest parties, or at least in this House the biggest parties, are normal and logical to be expected after such an election campaign. But if I may appeal on behalf of a parliamentary group that is certainly smaller, but which has always been right so far for more or less of everything she has said, we urge you to stop that. The campaign is over, the citizens of this country have chosen, they did not choose Boris Tadic, they chose Tomislav Nikolic and all that goes with it. Simply, from that angle, all the processes that are started afterwards are understandable. What I object to the former ruling majority is that by attacking the new ruling majority, by attacking the character of the people who have ruled, they actually want to avoid their own political responsibility, which is doubtless and greatest. Once that's settled, then you'll have LDP support to attack members of some new coalition. Before that, unfortunately, we only see in this a way to avoid the greatest political responsibility for what is happening to us right now, and one of the results, among other things, is the formation of a new coalition made up of three members, or I don't know how many there are today, the vast majority of your coalition. But much more serious is the members of the new ruling majority. I ask that our time, both personally and as citizens of this country, no longer be spent on attacks against the former ruling majority. You beat them. On Friday, more or less, things will be over. You've lost the right to talk more about them in political speeches. It is your obligation today to offer some new plan, some new policy activities that we will plead out on. As far as they're concerned, some will say that time has passed, they think it's not, it's all going into service. But you can't ask for an excuse anymore in what the old government did. Whether there will be some processes, investigations, etc., it is not at the MPs of the National Assembly to talk about it. If the polling committee is launched, which I see everyone looking for, on the issue of politics, a possible sale of "Evening News", it is a place where MPs will talk about it, and things like that. But in the debate in the Assembly on the election of the President of the Assembly, talking about criminal acts, corruption, is acceptable to one border, but we really ask you not to do this anymore because, hopefully, according to your political promises, this country will have organs and bodies that will be able to deal with and will not be affected by our political relations or personal relations. There's something more interesting to me, more from a sociological rather political point of view, which is the relationship between two coalition members as some kind of ballast, which I can't get rid of, of that relationship. So my impression is that everyone is now giving up and they want to distance themselves from the parliamentary group of the URS, the SPS and all the other parties, no offense, showing them as someone who's some kind of imposed factor in this. I believe that the factor is imposed, they also got the votes of some citizens and we must not forget it for a moment, and not a small number, since apparently in the government they decide, but also, if you are bothered by other parliamentary groups, I do not see any obstacles, and at least political obstacles, about your two parties making a coalition. We told you about it. Don't insult us by transferring responsibility to someone you need to be with. It's simple, you can do it together. Whether it's a good solution or not, I don't know. That depends on the outcome. But you would certainly have the same support as in this coalition that you're making today, as far as LDP is concerned. So we'd be opposition to that too, but simply, that's one impression that's politically dominant and might determine the time that lies ahead. That's why I decided to mention him anyway. I ask you to change your decision on four vice presidents, because, although it does not seem to be, it changes relations in the Assembly and the way the Assembly works. I think it is far from good and it is about marginal savings, and they can be achieved in another way – forbid or restrict the use of resources, in one way, but allow everyone to be members of that college because it is important for the work of the Assembly and it will simply relax relations. As far as the future is concerned, if you were to realize what you're saying, then it would certainly be good for the country, but let someone on this side who is deeply doubtful about it because of previous political experience, because of the circumstances that we know are very difficult, and anyone who speaks from the ruling coalition today in a serious way, avoids talking about these circumstances. Also, because by attacking each other, we actually see one serious political tactics, which is – avoiding responsibility for what is yet to happen and keeping Serbia on one level which, I agree with you, is the level of whose era ended on 20 May. If we go to something new, and every word you say and press conference comes out that Serbia is moving towards something new, then let's start from today and just leave those things behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u41	He has the word Alexander Vukic, president of the SNS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u42	First of all, I want to thank Mr. Andric and I would say that the SNS is ready to reconsider this decision and that it would be good for Parliament's tolerance to change this. I must say that it was not our partners, nor Mr Dacic, nor Mr Dinkic, they had earlier proposed a number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, but our wish was to reduce the number of vice-presidents, precisely for the reasons I was talking about, as well as a reduction in the number of members of the government. You notice that the fifth on the scale would be our vice president again, but we don't have a problem with that. We are prepared, after this discussion of yours, to consider this fact again with our partners and to meet, not you, but I think it would be good, normal, rational and reasonable for Parliament, so we will do as much as we can during the day. As far as other matters are concerned, the shootings, not for one second either of us in the parliament that came, it didn't occur to me that we're going to be in a position to defend ourselves from something today. We've come and it's a solemn day for us. We have come of goodwill in the desire that if we can't in the future, at least today everything will be in the best order possible. Then we experienced someone telling us that we said what we didn't say at all, then you see pre-prepared speeches and what it's supposed to mean is the start of some new campaign. What the SNS parliamentary group will never agree to. And tomorrow, when some of us come out of this parliamentary group, we won't agree to be hit to let time pass, and I'll remind you, and I'm completely in agreement with you about the proposal not to deal with what it was. Believe me, I personally promise you that I will do my best, not say that I will always and always be able to watch and talk about the future, but I will remind you, Mr. Andric, because we remember, too, not just you. That from 2000 to 2003... (President: Mr. Wolf, I'm sorry. I must warn you again not to stick to the weather. Why are you warning me now, I end up in the most beautiful way possible, which is why you are warning me now? (President: Please, you should have taken care of that final thought earlier. ) Please, I'm not finished, I speak as president of the parliamentary group, I have as much time as you want. (President: Mr. Wolf, you don't appreciate this time and the Businessman. ) Mr. Trnavčević, I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask Mr. Odalovic I didn't ask for a replica, Mr. Trnavci. [[President: You have the right to replica two minutes.]] (President: Good. Finish your thought. So let me just finish in one sentence. I'll remind you, Mr. Andric, I apologize, please consult with Mr. Odalovic, and I'll finish. I'll remind you of 2000 to 2003, where we've done nothing under God's grace, except talk about the crimes and criminals of the previous regime. I hope that time is over and I hope that we can all talk together in the future about what we need to do. Thank you, and we'll look at everything to meet you. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u43	The word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The URS parliamentary group supports the proposal to elect Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic as president of the National Assembly, and we also support the proposal and Mr Andric, to give LDP the post of another vice-president of the Assembly, because we believe that this will indeed bring about a balance of work and will contribute to a better quality of work of the National Assembly in the coming period. Why do we support this proposal? I will answer indirectly some of the findings heard by some of the MPs in the previous discussions. First, we entered this coalition with SNS, SPS, PUPS, JS for several reasons. First, because we have the opportunity to fully implement the URS programme with which we have come to the citizens of Serbia and receive adequate support, which is why we are in this parliament. Secondly, because we really think, as we said in the campaign, that in some important segments of our society, Serbia needs change. There's another, third thing, which is the answer to why we said one thing before the election was called, during the election campaign and why things changed. Mr Tadic once said: "If I had handled emotions rather than reason, I would never have made a government with an SPS in the previous term. ". Given that he is a more experienced politician than I am, I have decided to respect these wise thoughts myself, and simply in this choice, I am not handling emotions, but reason, and the reason is that we want to make a change in Serbia and implement a programme that is collectively shaped in this coalition. I have to say, four years ago, the DS had absolute power almost at all levels and missed the opportunity to implement all the reforms that were necessary. You know I was convicted of criticising the previous government that it was autistic, that it was locked in itself, that it wasn't talking to citizens, with businessmen, with trade unions, with Serbian citizens all over Serbia. In the end, the previous government was afraid even to cut red tape, let alone carry out more serious reforms. I'm going back to this story, to end up on NIS, because this is probably one of the last times I'm going to talk about it, because I agree with the speakers that we should turn to the future. But to talk about the future, we need to know what happened in the past. So, I didn't know, at the moment I came out with a promise that I believed deeply, because then there was neither the global economic crisis nor the price of action, even Nokie and Mercedes and other world companies were more than they were today, and secondly, I didn't know that one of the three key public companies, NIS, would be essentially, in a political agreement donated. At that time, I didn't know what it was about. I even entered, very naively, believing that there was a desire to correct the whole thing in favour of Serbia, into the working group, even led the Working Group for negotiations on the NIS purchase deal, with the idea of entering a clause, because it prevailed with the public opinion that the NIS is actually being sold at a price six times lower than the market because Serbia would get the South Stream. We said then – okay, the South Stream is a very big and important project for Serbia. If that's the case, then let's have a clause -- what happens if there's no South Stream, do we get a price difference between that politically agreed of 400 million and real about 2.5 billion euros, as far as we could get, or are they giving us back NIS? It was embedded in the contract proposal while I and Mr. Ciric led the task force, so that Tadic would ask me to change from that working group and say – there is none of it, and they put Borko Stefanovic on to finish this job. Essentially, the big question is – what did Serbia get in line for giving NIS at a price that is seven times lower? I highly respect all the countries in the world, and Russia, and America, and China, Germany and Europe, but I love Serbia the most, and in those negotiations I managed exclusively with the interests of Serbia, because the citizens of Serbia eventually got 30 euros per share, and they could get 200 euros per NIS action. When they ask – where are my thousands of euros, why don't they ask Boris Tadic – what you gave 170 euros to others, not Serbian citizens. Not to mention, the budget received two billion and 100m euros less than the market formula was supposed to be used. That's the point. In the end, my opinion is that, when we see things going sloppyly around the South Stream, and nothing happened about KIM politics, because the Russians were always saying -- we basically support you for your KIM policy, we're not going to condition our economic relations with it, and it's been seen that there hasn't really been any change, in any sense. The only logical explanation after this time is that Boris Tadic decided to give NIS to the Russians, so that the presidential election would give him the opportunity to "photo op" with Mr Putin, because he received a meeting in Moscow that his PR team thought would benefit from the presidential campaign to win the runoff in the presidential runoff. What is very important is to say, and regarding this, in these elections, the United Regions of Serbia did not have any candidate for president. In that sense, we had no political motive not to tell the truth. If I hadn't believed it, I would never have made such a statement. However, it has been shown that photons and marketing cannot change life in Serbia for the better, unless there is a substance. Marketing without product is an empty story. The democratic party should, instead of attacking former coalition partners and the future government, tackle its own mistakes first. Because instead of working, to offer Serbian citizens a better life, a budget deficit has been created record in Serbia's history, without citizens benefiting from it, because bureaucracy has been accumulated in the meantime. The agricultural budget is historically minimal. It was twice as big in relative terms six years ago as it is today, and the budget deficit is over 7% of gross domestic product. When Greece entered the debt crisis, it had a budget deficit of 12% of gross domestic product, and Serbia never had more than 4 to 4.5% of GDP deficits this year. Not to say that in 2006, it ended up with an excess of 2% of gross domestic product. What was that money used for? That's probably what the future's gonna show for it. But, Mrs. Jerkov, who comes from Vojvodina, should ask her coalition partners why in the middle of the election campaign, there was a huge amount of money pumped up to take care of the Dubios of Vojvodina Development Bank, and what was that bank actually doing all the time and where did it come from? Why was the huge money pumped into the Agro Bank, which in the meantime collapsed, and why was the money pumped into the once successful "Employment Bank of Belgrade"? Instead of dealing with essential issues, someone here is trying to talk about some things that are peripheral. I think the future should bring fundamental changes to everything, to see what the National Bank was doing in the supervisory of banks and whether the governor was the political governor who came to this place to listen to Boris Tadic or to safeguard the stability of Serbia's banking system? Because how is it possible that in these years, only these three banks we know of can be created? Vojvodina Development Bank - 150m euros. Fiftym euros pumped to reduce the dubiosis a little. Agro Bank over 200m euros, and some say up to 300. "The Business Bank of Belgrade", we still don't know what the data is. What about the Serbian Bank, it will also be visible. So, too much money has been spent and citizens have had counterproductive effects, as well as economy. Is it possible for all of this to change? I'm sure it's possible. That's why the U.S.S. entered a really difficult time for our country into this government. We are convinced that the policy led by the DS had good intentions, but essentially, in the depths of the realization was quite the opposite of what was declared. The only thing that is both declarative and fundamentally done in the way citizens expected it, because most citizens are for Serbia's entry into the EU, is getting a bid for EU membership. And it could have been obtained earlier, if not for a microcry in politics towards Kosovo and Metohija. So what's represented as the biggest rise of the previous government, the reform of the judiciary, if you talk to people in Brussels, you'll get the answer that's the worst that's been done in the previous period. What was presented as also a great success, relating to freedom of the media, what is that freedom of the media when you have non-transparent ownership relations, when you have indirect possibilities of influence over various agencies to buy seconds? The Democratic Party has developed the perfect mechanism for indirect control over the media. The DS problem was that instead of dealing with the citizens' programme, she was doing political engineering and she was dealing with others, including us from the URS. Because a month before the end of the election, they sent emissaries to break our movement. Elezovic is in contact with one mayor, another man to contact the other mayor, with the idea that Boris Tadic is not seeking support from the presidency of the United Regions of Serbia, but the separate support of individual leaders of the United Regions of Serbia, with the idea of totally breaking down after the election ended. Neither with Mr Tomislav Nikolic nor with Mr. Vukic I had a serious conversation until perhaps a month ago, 45 days from today. So, a month after the election's over. I haven't thought about a possible coalition with the SNS at all, I'm telling you. The conversation began when the DS began to crack the URS, when it offered such an offer that after a month of the end of the election it was possible for the URS to enter without its leader in the new government and when they actually wanted to continue to run the same policy as it was, with a nice marketing but empty and no substance. Then he followed, only then, that conversation and then we started to think about it at all. If you want to know the truth, Mrs. Jerkov, it's true. So, everything you've said is exactly what I said before and in the campaign, but ask yourself, what did the president of the DS, your coalition partner, what kind of policy did he run, and did that policy give good to the citizens? If it wasn't for this kind of marketing and this kind of direct media control by the DS, the question is, would this be the kind of election results? Both for us from the United Regions of Serbia and for the opposition parties. I'm sure the DS would have had a much lower score, because there was always talk about how you shouldn't get off the road and you didn't know at all what the road was and what was done so far. You can't get in some way that's not there. There was no direction. You didn't know where to go. You now have a situation that when proposed in the previous government of guillotine regulations, it was implemented only in the vaults that we ran in the URS. It refused to do so in environmental science. What will the Environment and Environment Protection Fund and the Environment Protection Agency and the Environment Ministry do? That fund earns nearly five billion dinars a year. Five billion dinars is more than all subsidies in the entire economy, because subsidies are in the economy of three billion dinars. The investment incentive programme, which is often attacked by the same DS, has never cost more than 3-4 billion, and this environment fund has some income from taxing the economy of five billion. What's five billion for? Some kind of payment to the state for tire removal, and tires like never before in Subotica. The whole industry has developed, people who keep their tires in their possessions and get money from the state and subsidies. So when we talk about public spending, it certainly has to and can be more rational. The only thing I want to say to Mrs. Jerkov is that all you're saying is simply tell your coalition partners, above all, to Mr. Tadic. If someone is responsible or guilty, however you want to qualify, for the position that DS is in today's position, then it is Boris Tadic himself. But I don't care, as of today, we're turning to the future, let the DS handle its own relationships.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u45	The word has the president of the DS Parliament Club, two minutes, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u46	So, here, it started with examples of self-critics, which is very good. So far, we have been critical of each other, but now Mr Dinkic has set an example of possible self-critics. I have to admit, I wouldn't speak at all, but there was a word here about DS, and that's why I want to remind you of some things. Perhaps it wouldn't matter if Mr Dinkic hadn't been proposed to carry financial and economic flows in our country and after 12 years again. I was interested in that phenomenon. Does Mr Dinkic hate money terribly and then went to haunt him everywhere and on October 5th into Belgrade banks, then Cyprus, then everywhere, to destroy him as much as he could? Or is he, in turn, fond of him, as in the case of the Savings and of some other examples to preserve him for us? But someone who ran finance for 12 years, and it wasn't a day, so to speak, except for a small, short period when he wasn't the governor, who ran the economy, who imposed a series of laws and economics, began by making different chambers and a series of other things. Had it not been for the last year of this previous ruling coalition been a pillar of the government, it had 25 MPs, which it gave to Mr Dinkic with a nice gallant contract, so when he left the government, the other MPs remained to hold those mandates and until the final breath of the current government... (President: Mr. Micunovic, I'm sorry, two minutes have passed. )......................................................................................................... until the last breath of this government they were in that government. Now, this self-critic may be healthy if everyone serves it and I welcome it, but I don't think anyone has forgotten Mr Dinkic's great role in our governments and in our political life and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u47	Thank you. The word has Dr. Slobodan Samardzic. I'm using law, Mr. Dinkic, you'll get a word after Mr. Samardzic who's been waiting for quite a long time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u48	I am now in doubt, because the MP has the right to reply, whether to take my word, so I would suggest that this round be completed. Mr. Trnavevich, it would be our turn to respect the Rules of Procedure, to have the MP take the right to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u49	So, I absolutely believe that anyone who wants to do any job seriously, including a job in the state, must have self-critics. So, I don't take that as anything bad, and I have to correct you in two. The first is, all financial flows in Serbia, in the last six years, controlled by the DS, not me, nor my party, in the last six years, from 2007 to today. Why? Because you had the finance minister, because you have the governor of the Central Bank. The economy minister doesn't control the financial flows, it simply isn't, or was controlled by Predrag Bubalo, or controlled by any economy minister, but by the finance minister. Let me make that clear. It's another one of your media team's PR pins to put some fake stuff on people's souls. So I was governor from 2000 to 2003, finance minister from 2004 to 2006, and this is really the period when I was responsible, both for monetary policy and the financial system. At that time, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica left a budget surplus of 2% of GDP, the first and only time in Serbia's history, and now minus 7% of the deficit. Secondly, it is true that when I was expelled from the government a year and a half ago that our ministers remained in the government, only for reasons to survive media spins, again your spin doctors, to allegedly tear down every government in Serbia. That was one of the bigger reasons why we didn't leave the government completely, and that's why we had political damage, because we would get a lot more votes if we were completely opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u50	The word has Dr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am a representative of the opposition in this and last term, and for this reason I should simply express my satisfaction that this Parliament is running like this and that the government has been doing so much dirty laundry on its rule, but I will not do so, because I really don't have that satisfaction. It's just been hard for me to listen to these hours and a half of all the details on the agenda that don't concern these subjects at all, not on individual subjects at all, but on a more basic subject, even though we have a particular occasion. The reason for our debate is the election of the President of the Assembly and never the election of the President of the Assembly is, as I say, the reason for the debate to be conducted, but as I said the occasion, precisely because it is the last act in the establishment of a assembly, as it is today. When the congregation is established, the debate on the congregation is very important. And because it's important, it's better to be principled than to be as individual and personal as we've had our discussion so far. And the principle debate can be very specific, and therefore I will try to be both principled and concrete in this discussion. When the Assembly is established, the most important topic is what is and who is the congregation's majority. That's the basic thing. That minority, the opposition, she won't run the business, she'll criticise it, maybe help something, but she won't run the policy. In addition, this majority is important for the government, it will form a government and then the institutions will start working. We are at such a time and the basic question is, therefore, this congregation and I want to say a few things about it. It has been two months since the elections were over, although the law provides opportunities until the assembly is established and a little longer, and these two and a half months are very long. It's a long time for a country on the verge of economic bankruptcy, which is in an economic impasse. For a state located in one administrative disorganization, above all in the area of the judiciary. In a country where corruption exists as an almost normal thing in the pores of his society. In a country where there's almost no public morality, or he fell to the last threshold. Finally, in a country that has a problem, a very difficult problem with its territorial integrity. So this is the situation described briefly by the previous government to this one, or if you want the previous congregation majority to leave this congregation majority. And this congregation majority is, therefore, in a situation of changing politics, we have seen it through the programs, through campaigns, etc., and the question is, what are the prospects and how will it be set to this task, that this four-year situation, which has led to the results, which I briefly described, at least stop, if not overcome, but certainly overcome? We have one principled problem here, so I am speaking again in principle, which is what this congregation majority has in its composition a good part of the previous government. We all know that. Now the question, therefore fundamentally, is that part of the government, or part of this majority that is smaller, but still significant, will it act in the direction of discontinuity with the current policy, or will it act in the direction of continuity? It's a very important question for that small part of the majority and the government that we have here today in the Assembly and tomorrow in the government itself. The basic question is, for the simple reason that we lived for four years under one slogan, which reads "The European Union has no alternative". That slogan was not a slogan, it was a policy, it was, therefore, one fidelity, once a path that showed very poor results. The slogan that turned into the expression of a political dogma. Are the elements of these dogmas still going to echo in their heads, in their minds and in their intentions of practical this part of the majority and government, or is that not the case, that's the question today? When it comes to the opposition today, it can continue to stretch and popularize that dogma, but it doesn't run the business and that's it. In other words, today we have seen that it too slightly changes the essence of that slogan. We heard in the words of a respected colleague, Micunovic, that Europe has no alternative, not that the EU has no alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u52	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to say on behalf of the SPS that, as we have seen from the signatures we have submitted, we will support and stand behind the candidacy of Nebojsa Stefanovic for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It simply impresses me, listening to this discussion, how much we are facing the past and how much we are dealing with issues from the past. I will remind you that the elections are over more than two months ago, that Serbian citizens certainly do not expect us to treat what is on the agenda today and in the coming days. Personally, as president of the SRS, I don't feel the need to justify myself to any of you here for any political move that our party is making. That's why each of you and we have a political responsibility. When, how many years ago, in 2004, we supported the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica. Also, there have been discussions like this. In 2007, although we chose Tomislav Nikolic here as president of the National Assembly of Serbia changed its decision and together with Tadic made the government. Since we were then in opposition and supported the minority government, the official position was that the Democrats would not come with us, we remained in opposition. In 2008, we allowed DS power for four years, by making a decision to go with the DS. I listened to the same discussions eight years ago, and four years ago, and I listen to them today. It is not up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to judge and judge what is best for each political party, but rather to those who lead these parties and have their political responsibilities. As for me and the SPS, we got twice as many votes as last time. What does that mean? So we made a good decision. It's not up to you to judge what our decision is. Each of you take part in your responsibility. I mean, we should turn to something that's right in front of us. Turning to the past we won't go far to a better future. The government isn't a prey. The government is primarily a major exam, so I'm asking you to hurry up so we can pick the government as soon as possible. On the other hand, I want the new speaker of parliament and new vice-presidents to make parliament the most important part of the government in Serbia. It is the highest power in Serbia. It is the highest legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia to make parliament a form of democracy that should exist in Serbia. Therefore, with all due respect to all political parties, I really respect all their programmes, party policies, everyone has the right to assess how they like it. I just want us not to put this debate on who he was with, who he wasn't with anymore. As for our party and coalition, we didn't fight for each other, we fought for each other. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. Anyway, I mean, if it's already such a situation that you have to make coalitions, how do we have to act, unless you think someone's right only when they're making a coalition with you? As far as I'm concerned, I voted for Boris Tadic in the second round of presidential elections, but Tomislav Nikolic won and no one can change the will of the people. It's a new political reality that we can be aware of or unconscious, but we participate in it. Accordingly, the SPS will support and vote in favour of Nebojska Stefanovic's election as parliament speaker. I want his mandate to be successful and to have as little need to impose penalties as possible and as many joint decisions as possible, such as this one on increasing the number of vice-presidential posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u54	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to talk about the draft law on ministries, and the bill on government, since we don't have those proposals yet. I don't want to talk about choosing a new government, because it'll be on the agenda in a few days. I want to stick to the topic of today's agenda, I want to talk about the function of the National Assembly president and about the candidate for this very important function for us. Parliaments in Europe are called a respected home or a high home. Because of the legislative authorities, representative bodies are the image of democracy in a particular state. In addition, parliaments still have some very significant functions. For example, it's a supervisory function or control function. That is why we consider the president of the National Assembly to be one of the most important, most important, key functions in each country. That's why we don't understand why everyone's running away from that function, like the devil from the cross. That's right and now, it was like that four years ago, it was like that in previous stimuli. It was simply created an atmosphere in Serbia that the position, that the minister's role in the government, any resort, and even the most insignificant resort, is more important, more crucial, than the National Assembly president's. I think we should all, as MPs, be bothered. As they should be bothered by the fact that the state secretary's office in any ministry is more important, than the function of the MP. As long as it is so, by the guilt of all parliamentary parties, who think in such a way, this house and this Parliament will not be able to call it a high home or a respected home. As you know, Serbia has had a parliament since 1835, but then the National Assembly was an advisory body of the princes. Since 1869, we have a parliament in Serbia which is a legislative body, and since 1888, under the Constitution, we have a National Assembly which is parliament in today's sense of words. Whether the elements of these dogmas are still going to echo in their heads, in their thoughts, and also in the intentions of a practical part of this part of the majority and government or not, that's today's question. When it comes to today's opposition, of course, then it can continue to stretch and popularize the dogma, but it doesn't run the business. That's it. After all, today we saw that she changed the essence of that slogan a little bit. We heard in the words of distinguished counterpart Micunovic that Europe has no alternative, and not the EU has no alternative. It's a movement, today, so these two things, Europe and the EU, are quite different, much more than they were 10 years ago, but it's a matter of opposition. She has the right to run her policy, her opposition policy, and that's not a big deal. I'm talking about most of the government. In what we have seen in the campaign so far, and especially in the previous period, I think, if you let me, the ruling majority, be a little bit optimistic and find something good in what the government did that you could use. So she showed she shouldn't be running politics. That's a very good result. Simply, it should also go in this negative direction, given the results, regardless of some abstract objectives etc. Today, Serbia as a state, its government and its majority, must not turn to one world sex, in a situation where there is a multilateral world and when the process of relations between international, multilateral, is no longer unilateral, as it was until recently. So, one country must not today, Serbia at least. In every respect, in diplomatic terms, in a secure way, in a commercial way, in an investment-financial respect, in terms of cultural development, science and education, the world is completely changed and Serbia really needs to learn from the previous government that it should not work. It is simply one conclusion from a bad experience that so far the political class has created its own preferences and its options based on its own interests, and right after that privilege only fed the interests of that political class. We have it in Serbia today as an evident result and it is a good science for most. Then most should not use the government's resources to create a monopoly – in the economy, in the state administration, in the financial sphere, in the media, in culture, etc. Of course, these monopolies can at least be expressed in public finances and in the state budget. These are some of the teachings that would be worth some points of orientation of this current government. Of course, your program is positive, not negative. We'll talk about it when we talk about the government, because you have a coalition agreement, and we'll have the exposés of the Prime Minister, and we'll pay more attention to that. Now I'm just saying that you don't have to work, that you have a good role model here. Let me look back on parliament itself because it is the main point of the agenda today for the election of parliament's president. The accident of our country since January 2001, when the first Serbian government was elected after those major political changes, is that most were very numerous in their composition. At least this was the case in the two governments of Vojislav Kostunica, when there were the least parties in the government and the slightest complexity of the coalition majority, but there was a large enough number that the government had worked very hard. It's some kind of chronic disease of our parliamentaryism. Somehow for the accident, I haven't counted, but it seems to me that this government will be supported by the majority of the largest number of members so far, even bigger than the first DOS, of 18. We're here somewhere, maybe a number more. That's certainly not good. This heterogeneity in the majority and in the government is difficult to achieve unity of the path and goal in the functioning of a single government and this is a major problem in itself. What is a good thing in this whole context is that Serbia has its own Constitution, which was brought in 2006 and Serbia has a clearly defined system of authorities in its constitution. So whether this heterogeneity is greater or smaller, the majority must focus on the Serbian Constitution. According to the Serbian Constitution, we have a parliamentary system of authorities that is slightly corrected by certain powers of the president of the Republic, but remains fundamentally parliamentary. Parliament is the center of institutions, the center of government. I am saying this because the previous period was a period of very intense violation of the Constitution when it comes to the functioning of parliamentaryism and the functioning of the system of government. In the previous period, we had a factual regime of the personal authority of the head of state or of the President of the Republic, which put the government under its control, and hence the parliamentary majority. That's why it happened in the state, and in this House as its presidential body, what was happening. Parliament served as a production body, a European law factory, which is practically inadmissible. Parliament passed resolutions that did not serve Serbia's honour but were at the shame of Serbia, such as the Resolution on Srebrenica or Resolution, which after the government or the majority, i.e. The president of the Republic has stepped down by erasing, rubber, as has been the case with the Resolution on the International Court of Justice's opinion on Kosovo's decision on independence. The parliament has not almost delivered a fair word over the past four years on Serbia's most difficult problem, which is Kosovo and Metohija. It was all the result of playing the Constitution essentially. Whatever we're talking about, the former president of the Republic, whether he signed this or what or what he said secretly to this or what we've heard a lot about today, the main problem is that he violates the Constitution in his way of action. The whole system has enabled him to do so. This parliament should stick to the Constitution, in short, according to its competences. It's a good circumstance that the President of the Republic has changed. As for supporting DSS Tomislav Nikolic, she was most assured that Tomislav Nikolic would respect the Constitution and would perform his presidency in accordance with the constitution. It's the most important thing for the DSS, with the underlying problem of this terrible heterogeneity that you will be very difficult to keep as were all previous governments. To avoid much debt, I will simply look back on the importance and leadership of parliament and parliament itself in strengthening its position in the system of Serbia's government, the position that I said the Constitution envisions. Of course, the leadership of parliament or college, or already as it is called, has a very important function, and the president has an extremely important function. He runs the parliament, sets the agenda in the college, gives it to him, etc. In our last session, we had a problem with the president. Parliament's president and some vice-presidents or vice-presidents, we were not satisfied with the way they respect and apply the Rules of Procedure. There have been various interventions and incidents, unpleasant situations, not only because the MEPs have spoken, which is often the case with us, but also today we have it at work, but often because the President of Parliament or the one who conducted the meetings has been intimated with the MPs and has been very arbitraryly interpreted by the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if the subject of the Rules of Procedure today is to speak, not, of course, whether or not you change it or not, we'll leave it for another time and for later, but the role of the president is primarily in this fine act, in managing a single body that has 250 individuals, and in this case 44 political members. It will not be difficult to unite, but perhaps the advantage is that the president of parliament will be young enough with, so to speak, still untapped nerves to lead this parliament in peace and cold. The greatest responsibility is to most MPs when it comes to the functioning of this Parliament, its importance and role. It's meant somewhere, and it's her responsibility. The opposition almost doesn't have to take care of it. When it comes to position, she too has a role to play, to be back in the framework of the law and the Constitution. It is clear that as president of the DSS, I can only talk about my party. I can guarantee that this party will contribute to the work of this Parliament in the very sense I was talking about. The most important thing for us is the Constitution and the law, and in that ovkir, we're going to have a fierce controversy and debate, of course, with most of it and with the government when it's here. When it comes to the president himself, it's because of our debate, the DSS feels in this constitutional parliament as an opposition, not as part of the majority. For this reason, she has no particular reason to vote positively for the president, but there is no reason why she should vote negatively because it is the beginning of the work of this leadership and this parliament. For these reasons, she will refrain from voting when it comes to the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u56	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to say on behalf of the SPS that, as we have seen from the signatures we have submitted, we will support and stand behind the candidacy of Nebojsa Stefanovic for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It simply impresses me, listening to this discussion, how much we are facing the past and how much we are dealing with issues from the past. I will remind you that the elections are over more than two months ago, that Serbian citizens certainly do not expect us to treat what is on the agenda today and in the coming days. Personally, as president of the SRS, I don't feel the need to justify myself to any of you here for any political move that our party is making. That's why each of you and we have a political responsibility. When, how many years ago, in 2004, we supported the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica. Also, there have been discussions like this. In 2007, although we chose Tomislav Nikolic here as president of the National Assembly of Serbia changed its decision and together with Tadic made the government. Since we were then in opposition and supported the minority government, the official position was that the Democrats would not come with us, we remained in opposition. In 2008, we allowed DS power for four years, by making a decision to go with the DS. I listened to the same discussions eight years ago, and four years ago, and I listen to them today. It is not up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to judge and judge what is best for each political party, but rather to those who lead these parties and have their political responsibilities. As for me and the SPS, we got twice as many votes as last time. What does that mean? So we made a good decision. It's not up to you to judge what our decision is. Each of you take part in your responsibility. I mean, we should turn to something that's right in front of us. Turning to the past we won't go far to a better future. The government isn't a prey. The government is primarily a major exam, so I'm asking you to hurry up so we can pick the government as soon as possible. On the other hand, I want the new speaker of parliament and new vice-presidents to make parliament the most important part of the government in Serbia. It is the highest power in Serbia. It is the highest legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia to make parliament a form of democracy that should exist in Serbia. Therefore, with all due respect to all political parties, I really respect all their programmes, party policies, everyone has the right to assess how they like it. I just want us not to put this debate on who he was with, who he wasn't with anymore. As for our party and coalition, we didn't fight for each other, we fought for each other. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. Anyway, I mean, if it's already such a situation that you have to make coalitions, how do we have to act, unless you think someone's right only when they're making a coalition with you? As far as I'm concerned, I voted for Boris Tadic in the second round of presidential elections, but Tomislav Nikolic won and no one can change the will of the people. It's a new political reality that we can be aware of or unconscious, but we participate in it. Accordingly, the SPS will support and vote in favour of Nebojska Stefanovic's election as parliament speaker. I want his mandate to be successful and to have as little need to impose penalties as possible and as many joint decisions as possible, such as this one on increasing the number of vice-presidential posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u58	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to talk about the draft law on ministries, and the bill on government, since we don't have those proposals yet. I don't want to talk about choosing a new government, because it'll be on the agenda in a few days. I want to stick to the topic of today's agenda, I want to talk about the function of the National Assembly president and about the candidate for this very important function for us. Parliaments in Europe are called a respected home or a high home. Because of the legislative authorities, representative bodies are the image of democracy in a particular state. In addition, parliaments still have some very significant functions. For example, it's a supervisory function or control function. That is why we consider the president of the National Assembly to be one of the most important, most important, key functions in each country. That's why we don't understand why everyone's running away from that function, like the devil from the cross. That's right and now, it was like that four years ago, it was like that in previous stimuli. It was simply created an atmosphere in Serbia that the position, that the minister's role in the government, any resort, and even the most insignificant resort, is more important, more crucial, than the National Assembly president's. I think we should all, as MPs, be bothered. As they should be bothered by the fact that the state secretary's office in any ministry is more important, than the function of the MP. As long as it is so, by the guilt of all parliamentary parties, who think in such a way, this house and this Parliament will not be able to call it a high home or a respected home. As you know, Serbia has had a parliament since 1835, but then the National Assembly was an advisory body of the princes. Since 1869, we have a parliament in Serbia which is a legislative body, and since 1888, under the Constitution, we have a National Assembly which is parliament in today's sense of words. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the most representative body, the institution of the constitutional and legislative jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. That's so under Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be worthy of the highest home and of these very important powers and functions that the National Assembly performs under the Constitution of the country. Working in the National Assembly should be adornment of mutual respect and mutual understanding. This is also a place of political struggle, an arena of political struggle, but it should be a place of mutual co-operation and respect. Mr Stefanovic, who will be elected to this post today, will most likely have a harder job than all his predecessors, because 13 parliamentary groups have been formed in the National Assembly so far, and perhaps some others will form. Mr Stefanovic, you will have to coordinate somehow with the work of the National Assembly in a way that all parliamentary groups, as well as MPs who will not be members of any parliamentary group, are respected. There are only five members of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, and therefore we are among the smallest parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, but we expect from you, of all the MPs, to respect us and to respect us, and in return, we offer this to all the MPs and all the parliamentary groups. Today we are discussing the election of Mr Stefanovic to this very important function. If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, I'll be a little more personal. I've known Mr Stefanovic since 2007, that's when I first became a national MP and this is my third term. At that time, Mr. candidate for president was also president of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, but he was a member of parliament only in that one term, which lasted just over 15 months. We could talk about whether someone should be president of the National Assembly with such little experience in the National Assembly, with only 15 months of experience. On the other hand, the candidate for president, as I said, was also president of a very important committee. What is very important to me is that I met him at the time when he was an SRS MP as one calm man, a stable man, and I remember him by quality discussions. That's why I think he's a good solution to this function, when we already know that the government will form these parties and when we already know that this function belongs to the SNS Parliamentary Group. At the same time, I should also say that, or should I point out once again, that Mr Stefanovic was not a national MP in the past term. The current Rules of Procedure have also been brought into this assembly. The Law on the National Assembly was adopted in that assembly. You will have to manage this assembly on the basis of these regulations, until a possible new ruling majority changes, not amends or Rules of Procedure, or the Law on the National Assembly, or both. That's why I think you might have some problems due to lack of practice. I suggest that you always seek the advice of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, who has performed very well this function that you will be elected to during today. As you know, SVM is not part of the ruling majority. It was our choice, it's our commitment, maybe a little unnatural in Serbia to stay in the opposition. We are unreservedly ready to vote in favour of any legislative proposal, whose adoption contributes to the approximation of the Republic of Serbia, which contributes to the democratisation of our country, which contributes to strengthening the economy, and above all, agriculture in the Republic of Serbia and which contributes to the preservation and even greater degree of protection of human and minority rights. In addition, we are prepared to support your choice today for this significant function, regardless of what we will not and do not want to be part of the ruling majority. I would ask you, Mr Stefanovic, as well as all the MPs, to experience this, to take this as a gesture of goodwill, as a given hand, as a symbol of willingness to cooperate. We will always be there to cooperate with you, to make our proposals, but we expect you to treat us in the same way as we do to the SVM parliamentary group. What is more important, we expect you to perform this function in a way that will contribute to the preservation of the dignity of the National Assembly, this constitutional architecture of every state and most important institutions. This means that we expect from you and are ready to help, that the National Assembly has a government, not the Government of the National Assembly. I expect you to have this Parliament working the way it is foreseen by the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure. We have also objected to past councils, and we will also oppose it now if there will be attempts to manage the National Assembly from other places – for example, from the Office of the President of the Republic, or from anywhere else. If you will resist it, then you will surely have our support, as all former presidents of the National Assembly had to support it. We also expect you to restore together the reputation of the National Assembly and to show in Serbia that those who speak wrong about the National Assembly are one insignificant body, which is the factory of the law, an insignificant body in which people who receive enormously large salaries and do nothing for those salaries. That is why we believe that together, all MPs and parliamentary groups, we should work to make the parliament in Serbia truly the highest representative body of all citizens, to be a constitutional and legislative authority in this country. If that is the case, then you will be able to count on us for this support today, and I hope that neither you nor the other MPs will get it wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u60	Is there more presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, who want to use the right to speak? Yeah. Here you go. The word is Aleksandar Jugovic of SPO-DHSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, the chairman, I will speak briefly to this higher house, especially because I believe that the president of parliament must be a metaphor of the value of the ruling coalition's policy. The SPO-DHSS will perform as an opposition. It seems to us that the political scene in Serbia has been quite defined or returned to the idea and sea, because many have forgotten or most of them, that Serbia has gone through the tragic 90s. Now in the opposition bloc are mostly political parties or almost only political parties and political leaders who, in the early 1990s, made DOS. The compromises after 2000 have led Serbia into a situation to compromise the political scene, to create non-civil coalitions, that anyone can with anyone and turn any idea into a personal or party interest. That might be why it's an honor to be in opposition right now. As a result, it is increasingly clear that a major mistake has been made to disobey the advice of the SPO, which is not open files and because no lustration has been performed. I would advise the President of Parliament to pay more than the previous speaker of parliament to ensure that the transparency of the government's work is equal to that of its pawn, as well as the transparency of Parliament's work. In the previous session, we asked for a record from the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which we would find out that who voted for one of the laws that SPI is extremely interested, that's the Rehabilitation Act, and we couldn't get that answer because it was designated as a state secret. So, for all that is good, for all that is useful, certainly every ruling coalition, including this one, will have the support of this parliamentary club, but for everything that is harmful, everything that is immoral, everything that is wrong, there will be no support of this parliamentary club and we will be an extremely harsh opposition. I wish you good luck when you're elected President of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u62	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I think this is a exhausted list of speakers from the president and representatives of the parliamentary groups. Meanwhile, we have a list of MPs who have the right to speak about a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On that list is the first Mr. Alexander Wolf. Do you want to use your right? (No) Thank you. The other is Mr. Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, at first I can wish the candidate for president of the Assembly the success of his predecessors in the last two calls. However, there is a more serious issue here as to how the parliamentary majority will function, even at these times when the constitution is being established. Of course I can't give some active support because I'm not part of the parliamentary majority, but also because of a very bad experience so far. We have, since 1990-2000, called together our representatives in three. I will now be the third term representative of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley in this assembly. However, what can I conclude? There's no difference between the successes my predecessors had in the '90s and what I've been doing in the previous two convocations. It's just a domain of presenting problems, actuating problems. There was no willingness to be more concrete, at least in that executive part, than this parliamentary majority, by which this executive authority was formed, that we were absolutely not moving on. Not even with aspirations to be in some form of central authority, or even in the governmental authority for Presevo-Bujanovac-Medvedje, there was no willingness in the previous two governments to work together and to work seriously to solve the very serious and very sensitive life problems facing Albanians in the Presevo Valley. Will there be any movement now, to possibly improve this approach, will the new parliamentary majority be able to ensure a more serious approach to solving a really very complex situation in this area, the situation there is alarming? If not, take data from Belgium, take data from Germany and other Western countries, as many Albanians from that area seek asylum. In addition to Roma, Albanians in this area who, due to the failure of the governments so far, and especially their co-ordination body, have led to such a disastrous situation as they are currently in. Others, also more current, the more problematic approach, are actually the elections themselves. Two days before the election, we had a drastic vulgar action by state authorities, special police. Election silence has been disrupted. It is very difficult for me to question family dignity, falling into early morning hours, even candidates for committees and dozens of other Albanian families. There was no voting atmosphere, but we still gave priority to this active political approach to solving the problem. But right away on Sunday, we came across an even rougher violation of human rights, which is that for the first time since I've been following the election since the '90s, we haven't had voters' lists just in a Cyrillic letter and it's a deformed Cyrillic letter that couldn't be decrypted by members of the election boards. He can't write all the names and all the letters in Albanian alphabet. In my opinion, without any explanation, without any preparation, it was made that on election day hundreds and hundreds of people were returning because their names could not be found in the election lists. That was a rude violation... (President: Mr. Halimi, you had five minutes to speak. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u64	Thank you very much. The word has Jadranka Joksimovic as an SNS MP. You're giving up? (Yes) To remind you of a provision by the Rules of Procedure that says that the Assembly runs until 1800 hours, but if it does not end, then it is transferred to the next day. At first, I asked that we take care of the weather, to form a government. Let us finish today, we have the opportunity to finish this point, to elect a president, and then a vice president, etc. On the list of speakers is Bojan Djuric, the LDP coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u65	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize, Mr. Trnavcievich, but I will still speak. I understand your concern and your desire to finish it as soon as possible, but this is still a very serious day for the parliament and for the new ruling coalition, and in part Mr. Vukic spoke about it, and I just don't think there's any need to rush so much. On the other hand, this is the first real session of the National Assembly in nearly six months. No one seems to have any excuse for being tired or for not having enough time to stay in this room today. In that sense, I will at the very beginning, although as a representative of the opposition party, commend one of the manners I see today with the largest future ruling party, which I hope will continue, almost all the MPs of your parliamentary group sit in this room and listen to the debate and I think that's good. Unfortunately, at this point, it seems to me to be practically the only difference compared to what this parliament looked like and worked until a few months ago. I spoke to the press a little while, and they say the debate is a little intense in these few hours, and I wouldn't say so. I think it's pretty depressing, that practically two parties, who like to say to themselves that they're the biggest, that they've simply replaced the role, that they're still trying to feed each other politically. We've talked about this before. Mr. Andric talked about it. The elections were over two and a half months ago, and there is really no need for any leftover or political debates, not in the former ruling coalition, in any ruling coalition in the last ten or 15 years. Even in the year 2000 to 2003, in which you, Mr. Wolfich, spoke at one point. Of course, these first days of parliament's work before the government's election are always specific. You actually have a few points or a few agenda sessions before that essential point, and that's government choice. It is also normal to expect that most MPs or representatives of parliamentary groups are already at this very moment in this first debate, and this is always a debate on the election of the new speaker of parliament, in fact, that their principled views on composition, on work, on the expected programme, on the quality or disadvantages of the future government. The Liberal Democratic Party will be an opposition party at this meeting, and I think it's time to say it at the very beginning. We will not support Mr Stefanovic's election as Parliament Speaker. I don't think these gestures, which have been discussed here today, simply a decent vote or a decent support for the president of the assembly, are going to help much. So that's more of a essence than a form itself. I would also like to discuss with Mr Stefanovic more in this debate what should be the essence of political work or the political agenda of this parliament over the next four years. I won't talk about years, I won't talk about other things, I won't be personal or, as Mr. Vukic likes to say, "ad personam" and I'm much more interested in what he's more interested in lately, and these are usually income and expenditure foreign budgets. I think it is very important for this country and I think it is very important for Parliament to work, not only in the coming days until the government's election, but in the entire four-year term. In addition to leading this National Assembly in the next few months or several years, Mr Stefanovic, you will in some way dictate both the political pace and the political content of her work. It is very important for us to know what your plans are like. The political position of Parliament's president is not insignificant, especially in our situation, especially in a country facing problems facing Serbia and about which both you and your party and your future coalition spoke very often in the election campaign and in this period of government formation. Especially with a few questions or a few topics. It is a question of European integration. It is very important for us to see the pace of Parliament's work in this regard, and not only in that legislative work. We've adopted a thousand and some regulations in the last term. Serbia has not made much progress, has not become a more European society or a more European country because of it. We do not think Serbia will become a European country by winning a bid or by starting and ending negotiations over the next few years. We are fundamentally interested in the content of these changes in this country, a valuable position from which you will lead Parliament and the direction in which you will direct its work. Another important issue is the Kosovo issue. Both your government and this parliament have very high obligations on the European path, and Serbia's European path and policy towards Kosovo or Kosovo policy are absolutely inseparable and you know it very well. In the previous term or in the previous few terms, the assembly adopted eight or nine declarations, if I am not mistaken, on Kosovo. Each one of them, I'd say, is a step back.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u66	You spent five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u67	I'm sorry, I don't have five minutes, I have all the time of the LDP parliamentary group, which is 17 or 18 minutes, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u68	You don't have to use it all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u69	Mr. Trnavevich, let me say that I have an understanding for these few more hours and that I will not react to what you have done now, asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. To continue, if possible, by political debate or political pathway. So, the Kosovo question. It is obvious that parliament will have to adopt different political acts in the coming period. Maybe it's good to hear from you, too, if you're planning to launch some initiative in that sense. It is obvious that politics and Kosovo and Europe, especially in the way it was formulated in this parliament, where I remind you that LDP was the only or one of the few political parties that did not share such a political view of the Kosovo issue, that it must change. Why am I talking about this? Because it seems to me that in these first days there are still too many phrases in the performances of your coalition's leaders or political representatives, especially Mr. Vukic, who will obviously be your party's political leader in the future coalition. I think it's important that we hear something about it from you, if it's not possible at this point, then during the next few days when you're practically going to have a chance to make your first real political statements. The debate is important because I think the worst that can happen to Serbia right now is to continue this process through the artificial production of the two-party system. Serbia cannot be a two-party system, especially cannot be a two-party system of SNS and DS. That's what these elections showed. Otherwise, today's candidate for Serbian Prime Minister would not be Ivica Dacic, but would be someone from DS or SNS. The Liberal Democratic Party has no problem with this and we think that there is a great political space and for what we will do and for the impact on future power through opposition action and in any other possible way. We have already said that we will support every European or pro-European effort of your government. I'm telling you right now, we suspect there'll be a lot of them in advance. The ones you pull, we'll say hello anyway. I promised I wouldn't speak in person. I looked at your biography, Mr. Stefanovic. She's not long. I don't think it's because you didn't have much to say or write about yourself, but it still seems to me that you didn't have much to say. That, for example, you've kept the name of the university you graduated from. I think it's a mistake, you shouldn't have done that. I think that's how you might have somehow acted in a populist way and tried to avoid something that might cause public resistance. If I'm not mistaken, it's Megatrend University. Let me tell you right now, I don't think it's bad to study and graduate from that college. In life, either you learn or you don't learn, or you know or you don't know. There's no need, in some of your other biographys that I've seen in the past few days, it's been specifically stated at which university you graduated, and I suppose afterwards you've mastered. That's not listed here either. Our election campaign, our political life has indeed been a poisoned team, more or less, of ephemeral things. The name or rubles on diplomas and on other papers we have in life are not crucial. Mr. Vukic mentioned the Law School at one point. I've graduated from that same college, I'd say with similar grades as Mr. Wolfie. It is offensive for all of us when political life or scientific or professional life is led in such a way that the names of the university are left out or that these very important issues are pushed to the margins. I say once again, I don't think you have any reason to be ashamed of it, but I also think that what happened in the previous four years is not a good way for this parliament to start working. I don't want to get into this, I'd say, self-loathing that was heard here in some discussions, about how the parliament was humiliated, humiliated on the margins. I think we're responsible and responsible for that. If we do that for the next four years, that will be our results. I did not believe in conspiracy theories during that period of political past when you, Mr. Stefanovic, may have believed in them politically as a member or as an SRS official. I hope we're out of that period now and we're going to be rational in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u70	Replica? Here you go. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to thank Mr. Pastor for his support of Mr. Stefanovic's election today. To those who are trying to say somewhere between the lines that someone is humiliating the Serbian parliament, I would like to announce that Nebojsa Stefanovic is the vice-president of the SNS board, I see that you do not like it very much, but the largest party in Serbia. Around these stories, who wants to form a political formation, whether it be a two-party block or a multi-party block, we want what Ivica Dacic wanted, and today I want to tell him and everyone else, that in the next election we get a lot more votes from his party, a lot more votes than Mr Petrovic's party and, of course, a lot more votes from your party. Who else will receive the people's trust in the people, and it is not on us? On the other hand, what I think is more important, that's what we're going to do in the next period. I don't mind when every time I expose someone, like by the way or by accident, and I've been in this business for many years, so I don't miss it, mentioning an SRS or someone's membership in the SRS. Well, we're not ashamed of it like we're not ashamed of it, I suppose Cedomir Jovanovic, even though we never mention him changing parties, as we never mention to others. So, people, if you can, I really ask you, what you've forgiven yourself, try to forgive others and nothing more. We've done this before, and we've done this, except in the answers you've never even heard. While I am sure that around the vice president of the National Assembly, not because we are doing a good deed, but because it is normal in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you have a vice president, simply as a significant parliamentary group, I want to say that our intention is to talk to everyone, to see what we can change in Serbia. To change the custom of some honoring schools without ever knowing what schools they have completed or whether they have completed them. But that's mostly because the media, which are under the control of the former regime, used it in the worst and most dirty way of campaigning against the SNS, not asking anyone else. As for Nebojsa Stefanovic, I want to tell people in Serbia that it is a very educated young man, and that will give Serbian citizens a chance to see. So, we didn't run for any and the best candidates for ministers, and I don't know who for the President of Parliament, but rather respecting this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u72	Mr. Wolfie, three minutes and three seconds. It's embarrassing for me to remind you of the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u73	You don't understand that I can, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u74	But you announced it as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u75	I'm sorry, Mr. Trnavtsevitch. I'm sorry for saying anything. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u76	Thank you. Dusan Petrovic, Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u77	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the election of Parliament's president is a political matter of first order. The President of the Assembly is a second person in the Republic of Serbia, after the President of the Republic, and in front of the Prime Minister, so never in such debates and in such debates is only a person of the person who is proposed, but of course essential things that determine such a choice. Mr. Stefanovic is a proposal for Parliament's president, the new parliamentary majority, and I think it's a fundamental topic. In Serbia, very important and important things have happened in the past, and I mean not only political matters that determine one or two four-year terms of one parliament and one government, or a presidential mandate, but much more. Given our recent political history, and I mean the last little over 20 years, one very difficult, big political struggle has been fought. Our nation and our society have been trying to establish a consensus on a particular policy and what I think is essentially a big gain, which is why I think the DS with everyone with it in the political alliance, in these last years, has made one historic step. It is that in Serbia a consensus has been made on the direction the country should go. If we all remember how politically Serbia looked in 2008, 2004 or 1998, and what it looks like today in 2012, then we can see very easily, that a huge number of participants in political life today, which is, of course, a picture of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, supports not the path of Serbia to Europe, but the way of Serbia to the EU. It's "believe in" the Democratic Party, which is why DS was founded, which is why those who were against it left the DS in the 1990s. Those who thought we had to solve these things faster have separated from the DS in another period, but politics is a real life and making difficult decisions in the very serious and difficult circumstances that we were in today. So, as far as I can see from how the new parliamentary majority of its political programme is, which, of course, we will discuss here when they are on the agenda, not even the law on the ministries, not the government law, but the proposal of the new government, when we hear the exposés of the prime minister, or at this point in office, Mr Dacic, then we will be able to say something more concrete and detailed. But the general policy direction is that. If we didn't agree on everything else, it's kind of natural, and we have a different view of many things and it's natural, that we estimate differently the achievements of these, or of those politicians and members of the previous government, and that's, of course, fine, otherwise we wouldn't be political opponents. But the bottom line is that unlike some of the earlier times, not so long ago, Serbia today is the majority, I dare say, not even four-fifths, but more than that defined to do everything possible to join the EU. It has become almost universally accepted political value, with full respect for those who think differently today. What I want to say is that, of course, it is quite obvious that today's parliamentary majority, almost half of that parliamentary majority, is made up of parties that did the previous parliamentary majority, and it is nothing unnatural, in my court, because this main policy direction in Serbia is not changing. I will also remind you of all the troubles that have been faced so far with politics in Serbia, especially in the last four years, and all that to have citizens, and we here as Members of Parliament have seen a complete picture of what we have managed to do. The past government, but indeed almost at the same time began its mandate with the beginning of one of the biggest economic disasters that has hit modern humanity with a crisis that is greater than the crisis that has rocked the whole world since the late 20s. And, with the understanding of criticism and the complete willingness to take all the steps, which I'm sure will be spoken of when there is a debate about the government, and it will be quick, and I believe that some financial proposals here will be on the agenda in parliament, so we can talk about it. I think the previous government managed to do what was possible to preserve the fundamental elements of the country's economic stability. On the other hand, a difficult, serious, difficult, big political struggle is led to defend the fundamental national interests. There is not a single country in Europe that has such a big and open state problem as Serbia has. The approximation of the EU has been carried out with the greatest possible possible circumstances of defence of state interests and national interests. There is no one here, no dilemma, no illusion that both the new parliamentary majority and the new government, but also this parliament will have to answer questions that no government or parliament in Europe has to answer. We have a lot of understanding for this and therefore I think it is very important to highlight and underline the fact that we have succeeded in approaching the EU as much as possible. We'd be happier if we'd gone further. We will support by voting for pro-European laws, by proposing pro-European regulations, by approaching Serbia's fastest possible EU with the ultimate goal of becoming part of the EU. On the other hand, Serbia is today a more tolerated society than it was in the previous period, and we believe that the great achievement of what the DS has done, done by Boris Tadic, who has been president of the DS, who since 2004 has been president of the Republic of Serbia. We have done this together with our political partners and I think we can all be very proud of it, whether we are on one side or the other today. Serbia is a more peaceful society today than it was four, eight, 15 years ago. We have made very significant moves in the stabilisation of the region and it is already a matter of foreign policy and it is not possible to have this region in a decent state, I dare say, unless Serbia is a politically stable country. We have made a great contribution on this road, and we will firmly support it. Therefore, regardless of the criticisms that have been heard here today, the Srebrenica Declaration is one great achievement, one great confrontation with our lives, with the lives of our society, as well as the resolution of the issues of those suspected of war crimes. It's important that they stopped being topics or that they stopped being themes as strong as they were four, eight, not to mention what things looked like 15 years ago. I'm sure Serbia won't let go of its direction around which it has reached consensus in recent years. Today, I am not going to sit here and debate what any of the government members have been doing. I believe there will be opportunities until New Year's Eve, and even now these days, when we discuss and discuss other issues, but I'm sure that the country has gone so far in this direction that I was saying there is not one government that can politically survive the fundamental change in that direction. It's the achievement of DS and those who've been her allies all these years. At the very end, I just need to say a few specific things that have been put out here, and they're not true, so I hope you'll let me do it, and I won't take too much time. It's a bad thesis, it's a bad message, and it's not true, most importantly, that Russia kidnapped NIS Serbia. That is not true, no matter what political needs there is or whether it is necessary to defend itself against such or such claims. When a definitive audit of how much NIS owes, it was found to owe 38.5 billion dinars at the time when the euro has not yet crossed 100 dinars. So, about 400m euros. Not only is the 400m-euro sales price important, but also these 400m euros, what was the loss of NIS when Gaspromneft bought NIS. The NIS debt was about $900 million at the time. Bookkeeping, the NIS value at the time Gaspromneft bought 51% of the stock was well below 400m euros. To ignore even the accounting value, at the moment the NIS became an open stock company, which will say, when actions were broadcast on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which is in such systems economically, as we recognise for the legitimate, essence of things, so the NIS value was about 420m euros somewhere. I wish NIS was worth 2.5 billion. I wish it was worth five billion euros, but the numbers are inexorable and they're totally unsustainable all those political arguments and defenses that aren't based on facts. It is completely outside of every political taste to accuse Boris Tadic of being photographed, as we heard here, with Vladimir Putin at the time of some pre-election campaign, this job is closed. This job was concluded by two governments. There are many people who took part in this. There are documents. As for Gasvod, there is a state agreement or an interstate agreement between Serbia and Russia. There are obligations of the two countries of the Contracting Parties. The contract is also based on a contract for the sale of NIS. Anyone who wants to discuss this matter seriously, I think they have a chance when they're heading into facts and they won't use it, twisting those facts and throwing out the truth and mockery to do it. As for the governor, the current governor... (President: We elect the President of the Assembly. ) Mr Trnavčević, the motion by Parliament's president was supported by MPs, a number of MPs, so that they are an integral part of the proposal and the proposings. I'm talking about what the promoters were talking about, nothing else. I didn't initiate here either the NIS topic or the governor's budget in agriculture. I'll be done in two minutes. The governor of the National Bank, Mr. Šoškovic, personally supported Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and said it was an extraordinary expert and that he should be governor of the National Bank. At the very end, when the claim is made that the absolute minimum amount of the agricultural budget was in this year relative to some historical series, this year's budget for agriculture was 44% higher than in 2011 and it was somehow strange that the agricultural budget could be increased when Mr Dinkic was no longer in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u78	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u79	As president of the Roma Party and for the Roma national community, it is of paramount importance that the election of Nebojska Stefanovic as president of parliament is interrupted, as the tutorial relationship of the majority that has been so far, which led the Roma National Council in its tutorial relationship. She did not hesitate to send her representatives at the National Council meetings and thus manage important things, and today we heard, as we first created the possibility for representatives of the European Commission, the OSCE, the Council of Europe to clearly say that about a hundred million euros have entered Roma integration and it is precisely Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic who will help this high house, thanks to this element of parliamentary control, control all things and ultimately get in the way and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u80	Thank you very much. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate today would seem quite different, at least as far as DS is concerned, if the motionary's representative hadn't directed the discussion, in my deep confidence in the completely wrong direction, giving it a completely wrong tone. What we wanted to discuss today is, deeply believing in the importance of the institution of parliament, how the ruling majority, which is now completely obvious, clearly, sees the future, in my opinion, the most important institutions in multilateral parliamentary democracy. Not one word of it, actually, we haven't heard. We may have been able to hear something about the candidate himself, but in the opening statement, the proposing's representative talked about everything else, just not the candidate. Of course, there's always a question, if you don't have what affirmative to say about what you want to do, with whoever you're proposing to be at the head of that institution that needs to do, you're just looking at something that's grades, what time has not proven, but the political campaign has served well for what the idea is and why this proposal is worth discussing or simply it's just about that there's a parliamentary majority and that it can vote. What I deeply believe is that in the past, we have made a serious step in reforming the institution of parliament, which we have turned this institution and, according to the European Commission's assessment, into the most serious partner of European integration, on the one hand, and on the other hand, into a serious democratic institution. I believe that if those who judge us more strictly in everything, and will assess the future government, and the future parliament, I believe that all the malicious and politically unfounded accusations of how this Parliament has done in the previous period are thus being denied, because what they have assessed, indeed, by strictly looking at, what we are doing and how we are doing, I believe that the best assessment of what has really been done is done. What we wanted to talk about, and why we took part in this debate, was the idea that we would talk about how the future ruling majority saw this parliament in the coming period, what it wanted to improve in this institution, what it wanted to do to improve, how to realize the idea of Parliament being at the same time as its constitutional role, the legislative body, but at the same time the representative body, as well as the body that controls executive power. We expected this from the proposing representatives, unfortunately, we only heard that they had a good will, as if there were no acts that define it, to let us and the opposition participate in the work of the board. So there are rules, you can change them, of course, if you have a majority, but those rules have been established precisely because every citizen representative, who has a number of people behind him, could represent in this Parliament the will of those citizens who voted for him, that it represents that particularity, that part of the country from which it comes and the interests of those whose interests are represented in this Parliament. In order not to be left with citizens thinking that someone's goodwill is at stake here, I want to say that there is a rule, that rule has been defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Law on the National Assembly, which is to remind myself of the previous assembly of Parliament, where we have done most of it, believing that by adopting the Law on the National Assembly we actually justify the reform process of an important institution in the best possible way and giving the institution the importance that it should have. Of course, when it comes to reforms, you can always judge whether it's gotten far enough and the question is whether you measure it by where it went, or by where you want to go. If we measure where it came from, then I can say that we've made a huge step. If we measure where we need to get to, the parliamentary majority and we as an opposition, we will have a big job to do to achieve that goal, which I think should be a common goal. When someone says the idea was to reduce the number of vice presidents by cost, then it shows that or does not know that there is no cost, because the vice presidents are elected from the ranks of MPs, or it shows impunity, or it shows the willingness to narrow down the rights of those who represent the parliamentary minority in this assembly. I would remind citizens of the work, and those who sit here and think that they will be generous by leaving six vice-presidents, that in the previous assembly, the parliamentary majority, in which the Democratic Party was leading, had four vice-presidents from the opposition, four and only two from the ruling majority. I want to remind those who either don't know, or would like to become generous, ignoring the fact that there is some time and some evidence of what happened in the previous period, that the previous parliamentary majority had an approximate number of board presidents as much as the opposition. Now I'm just gonna remind myself, that it wouldn't be to speak in my mind, that the most important committees had a president from the opposition ranks. The truth is, at that time, most of the Progressive Party were in the Serbian Radical Party, so unfortunately I will have to say that they are representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, although some of them are now in the Serbian Progressive Party, so that, at the head of the Administrative Committee, Tomislav Nikolic, as representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, was Krasic, as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, at the head of the Committee on Agriculture, for Health, for Kosovo and Metohija, were representatives of the opposition for science. So if someone is now thinking of reducing what is the result of the previous work of parliament, then they must not be represented as someone who is broad-handed. If we respect only what is inherited as parliamentary practice, which was established in the previous period, I think we will not have any problems then, because we will respect what we consider to be the very essence of parliamentaryism, which is that by giving the opposition the presidents of certain important committees actually gets a chance to participate in more control of what is executive power. Indeed, I want to believe that no one will have the idea that they are representing themselves as someone who is broad-handed, but as someone who respects the rules, who respects the level of relations in the institution itself, and what I want to believe is that the president you're proposing, who, unfortunately, you haven't said much about, so we can't understand what his qualifications are, we just have to take your word for it, that you know he's the best, and that's why you're going to choose him. What we want is for him to really be the best, because we think it is in the interest of all the citizens that we represent here to be the best, but in the sense that he will continue the process, that is, someone who will be the head of an institution that will continue the process of reforming this institution, the establishment of this institution, as the most important institutions in parliamentary democracy. We sincerely believe that what is reaching the level of democracy within this Parliament will continue to be built, not because you are generous, but because you believe in the importance of this institution. One more thing to say, the fact is that here also a representative of the proposing party, as well as representatives of other parties, who supported this proposal, were mostly engaged in the Democratic Party. I think it should first concern the citizens of Serbia, not the Democratic Party. Time is the best judge, and it will assess the role, the merits and guilt each and every one of us has played. Institutions are those that will determine the responsibility of anyone involved in the government. But what is proof of the lack of ideas and reason for citizens to worry is that when a candidate for Parliament's president is proposed, the argument is not the vision of an institution whose head is to come, but is one distorted political demagogue reference to the past which, if you want to go to the details, the National Council Act has brought, sir, a previous convocation in which we were the majority. Where you're sitting today, they didn't vote for that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u82	Alexander Wolfie, replica. It's not like a replica, it's like a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u83	I would like to inform you, Mr. Trnavcevic, that in accordance with Article 96, as a proposing, Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I have the right to seek word at any moment and to receive it at all times. I ask you not to take my word from me in the future, as you did on several occasions today. Thank you very much. So, we did look a little bit like each other, if he didn't mind his DSS colleagues, we looked surprised when we heard this. We looked surprised because you were always saying that you were getting ready for something else, and in fact something made you show your true face. Mrs. Kolundjia, so the first thing I said today - we, unlike you in the previous four years, will not reduce or take away any real opposition. Not a single line. You, Mrs. Kolundzija, by your amendment, I would like to say to the citizens of Serbia that you gave the majority of the National Assembly the right to take away every committee from the opposition, so you took away that committee to Dragan Todorovic for the safety of your time and Tomislav Nikolic, the Administrative Committee, so you gave it to Nenad Konstantinovic, who is sitting behind you and I can't remember who else, it doesn't matter, Bajatovic. Otherwise, I will read to you what the amendment said and what you did, so that the citizens of Serbia know what you are doing and what you are doing today. And I'm sorry, the only thing you're doing today is, let's wait for four hours and let's stall. Your whole policy has come down to it, that you can't admit defeat, that you can't lose how athletes do it and how honorable people do it, that you can't give your hand to a political opponent, but that the only thing you can do is, let's take time, let's stall and let's say anything, even if it's nothing to do with the truth. Namely, your amendment reads as part of the Committee when determining the proportion of participation of parliamentary groups in the total number of members and alternate members of the Committee, most of those parties making up the parliamentary majority shall be provided. Mrs. Kolundjia, we're ready to give you more than that. Not only do we accept it, but let us give you more than that, because we are not playing democracy, but we are thinking about the need for the opposition to lead a particular committee, that the opposition can also make certain decisions, that we can see how and how we can work with you. You told us here five times that we didn't say anything about Mr. Stefanovic. You weren't listening. They repeat to you – it is a young, educated man, you have received in your résumé the exact places where he worked, an economic expert, a man whose tolerance, patience and patience are characteristic, and that is why we are running him. We don't want to bring in a new Rules of Procedure that we're going to shorten your time for discussion like you did, Mrs. Kolundjia. That's what we're different about. We're not gonna cut your time, and I want you to be absolutely sure about that. We are not running away today from the discussion with you, the discussion in which you show that you cannot accept defeat, that you cannot give your hand to a political opponent, that you do not know that little dignity to preserve and show Serbia – yes, we will be political opponents, and we will not invent the reasons why we are going to blame somewhere. You say this parliament has become the best institution. You have abolished all rights to the opposition in the previous period. We weren't the only ones here who were in opposition. I don't want to tell you about your former political parties -- the socialist, the social democratic alliances, and I don't know what your parties were called, because we're yours, not to say a bad word, but tricks, really suck and push. Stop it, stop it already. You'll get an answer every time, learn about it. The Serbian Parliament is not your "Blic" party bulletin, in which it can come out whatever you want without having an answer. The Serbian Assembly is where you will receive your answer and where you will hear the truth, both of us and you of us, so the people will be able to appreciate it and judge it on the basis of your and our discussions. You say parliament should be the best, and we didn't say that. That's what we say - parliament must be much better. Of course there were good things. We're not ready to criticize everything. We're not ready to tell you that everything that's happened in the past is the worst on the globe of the Earth, as you're prepared. We didn't bring you photos, we didn't bring you statements about the SPS and some other parties, we came to talk to you about the future. You were preparing for it, it didn't fall from the sky, but it was about your nature, not ours. I thought, I was hoping that my good acquaintance Boris Tadic, after a long time, could understand what happened on May 20th. I'm afraid the president of the DS hasn't understood yet. I wish you all the best. I wish you many successes in the opposition. I want you to be very successful, but please don't give us sermons, lectures and lessons, because the people knew everything you're talking about knew to evaluate with all your dirtiest campaign in modern history. I remind you that in this campaign alone, you spent more than five and a half million euros in the largest electronic media. I'm not even going to ask you where you got five and a half million euros just for the campaign against us. Besides that campaign, you lost the election. They beat Tomislav Nikolic and SNS, learn to hold hands, and we ask nothing more of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u84	Hope Kolundji uses the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u85	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we know perfectly well how we behave both in profit and in loss. The way you're discussing it shows that you didn't manage to win. I sincerely hope you can manage. I think it's the interest of every citizen in this country. So, you act like the campaign is going on, like the election isn't over, like you only have one opponent, and that's DS. You don't. You have a parliamentary majority. We're the opposition. You're proposing a candidate, you've got most of them for them, and you don't have to deal with us at all. Everyone expects you to deal with what's the future you promised. You need to prove you're capable of building it. We'll all be happy if you succeed. Don't think we won't be happy. The DS will vote for anything that brings Serbia closer to the EU, anything that guarantees that citizens in this country will live better, unlike you who have never voted for anything. Once again, I just want to say that what you belonged to a foreigner, I don't object to anyone. The fact that you belonged to a break, and then you had a fight, and then there was a conflict and a problem with the committees, it wasn't our fault and our fault. Don't give us that. I'm talking about us as parliamentary majority in agreement doing exactly what I said. The way things were going after things, it wasn't up to us, it was up to the situation that was happening inside your party. One more thing. Who was saying, not only do they see citizens through direct transmissions, there are records and you know exactly what you've been saying all these 22 years, and what DS has been saying, as you can now check what you've been saying in your opening statement, as well as what we've been saying. We haven't even dealt with the attack on our former coalition partners, nor with any past charges. We didn't do that. The fact that someone else dragged the story into it, it's not our fault. We did not want to do it, nor did we do it. The promoter introduced the whole story and all the other parliamentary groups into one seal for which we are not responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u86	Mrs. Kolundjia, it's been two minutes. There's a Millovan Dracun on the speaker list. Does he want to talk? No, I don't. I would have held back, Alexander, for the seventh time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u87	Thank you very much. Soon, Mr. Trnavcievich, when you bring in this parliamentary group, it'll be fine. I just want to ask you-- excuse me, what word made you angry? What made you angry? What's the matter with you? Some insult, some false, some ugly word, some rude word? What was the problem? Is that what I said we were gonna change what you did in the last period? Is that what I said we were gonna take off your path? I wasn't turning my head the moment you were talking, I was looking you in the eye, but I guess that's talking about both of us. I haven't heard it from you, not from Mr. Micunovic. For the fifth time I ask you, what was in the opening statement? You cannot remember. I know what happened. You've been hit by someone else who thinks they can do something, something can change, and I'm not saying it's gonna happen. In doing so, I am prepared, personally and as a political organization, to bear all the consequences unless that happens. Serbia is like a sudden need for change. As bread, Serbia needs change. If we are not worthy enough, smart, capable, honest enough to carry them out, but continue your path, we deserve a worse political destiny than you, a much worse political destiny, but don't try to stop us from trying to do something better for the citizens. Don't try that because I don't see any meaning, and those flat-rates – the promoter introduced something, we introduced something, and when someone asks you -- how come you don't have that answer, you never can, and I don't want to accept it. If someone had thrown a shoe at you, if someone had said an ugly word to you, rudely, if they had spoken to you in an incorrect way, I would have understood everything, and like this, out of arguments, you only had to remember -- how about if our opponents were some others we could easily defeat. You are opposed to those you cannot defeat, and I hope, the same ones you will not be able to defeat in the future, those who want to create decent and normal Serbia, and you will not prevent us from doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u88	The list of speakers includes Borislav Stefanovic, DS. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u89	I thank the chairman. Of course, this debate is becoming much more of a conversation about the proposings themselves and the vocabulary that was today on this, as it seemed, technical session, was to be avoided. However, absolutely as DS, we reject any responsibility for the exchange, above all, of the value that is happening in this situation, because it is idyllic and even sensual to see Mr. Vukic, who recalls his activities in this Assembly, but that is not the subject. The theme is that the opposition has been accused of stretching time. Someone wants to deny her the right to say and to give her court both about the promoters and the candidate for president of the assembly. We're told here that we're going to, quote, "Get out of your way right now." I ask them – how will you get off our path, when we know that this government will have full continuity in European policy, that it will have full continuity in financial policy, since you have the same people in the same places, that it will have full continuity in social, educational policy. I don't know how you're gonna get that out of our way, Mr. Wolfie. I know you've learned to get out of the way, but I don't see how you're going to do this, because I see that some of you are going to be forced into this government at all. In the end, you'll find some SNS people to accept responsibility. We're not afraid of you, it's one replacement thesis, and we're not afraid of you. You say, "Don't scare us." No one scares you. You must understand that you are no longer an opposition. Now you're taking responsibility. Do not deny us the right to tell you what is wrong or what is wrong or that what we are convinced of is wrong. You will deny us. We, as we have said a hundred times here, and you will not hear, will support any good proposal that comes from the ruling majority and there is no dispute, especially European laws, unlike you. On the other hand, not only are you afraid of responsibility and not only do I know you're going through personal difficulties, as a man who I'm sure has the capacity to run a large party, such as the SNS, because you had to do a lot of things called responsibility to share with those you didn't want to talk to yesterday, but that's your party's problem. I know it's not easy. When you make proposals from the government, we will discuss, among other things, the function you mentioned in your opening speech. I would suggest, for starters, that you inform Parliament and the public as quickly as possible who stole the parliamentary elections and who was drinking coffee on His street with Luka Bojovic. I think it would be a nice thing to start our cooperation. As far as we can't admit defeat, I didn't realize what it was based on, except from what you expect us to be calm about your apparition and teaching the DS. You keep working on the Democratic Party that you say isn't relevant now, that it doesn't matter. I don't know why this fascination with this party if we're so irrelevant, we're going through a process of purification and restructuring. Then why does it matter to you? What do you do with the Democratic Party? You deal with coalition partners, you get headaches. What is certain, you as future defence minister, is fascinating to me to announce in the media arrests. Are you suggesting the return of the military judiciary to Serbia? Are you the person who's going to make the arrest? Are you the prosecutor in this state? If there is, of course, that we will all support those who are responsible for responding to the law. I just don't get it. What is certain for the promoter is its fixation to the media in Serbia. That's what I have to say. It probably comes from a time when the promoter was a minister of information at the time when the Information Law was passed, and today the promoter, Mr. Vukic, insulted journalists in Serbia by saying about a single paper, regardless of the editorial policy, that a party bulletin is said by a man who has his party behind him with the most unsatisfactory campaign against DS, the dirtiest campaign against their media, such as TV "World plus info", Radio "Fox" and other things. Don't laugh, because the things that come out there are already getting really pathological forms, and you need to know that before you criticize the sheets in Serbia that are independent. If they're not independent, then you'll explain to us how they're not independent. And secondly, by threatening and promising, I know that none of this will be your party media running the dirtiest campaign, for which the election campaign is never over, I guess you should talk about them, if you're talking about party media and bulletins. The second thing, if we're the regime and you're using that expression, thinking it's okay with nobody here, then you shouldn't be angry about the qualifications that we're going to refer to you, because our intention is not to attack the SNS, our intention is to attack the government, Mr. Vucic, and power is that of all the people who have entered the coalition with you. That's why none of you should be happy that we're talking bad about the URS or the SPS, you're all one now and get used to it. Besides, that's what you kept reminding us when we had government. As far as I'm concerned, I think the NIS issue, to address the gentlemen of the URS, is very easy to resolve. It should be simple, I'm sorry that Mr Dinkic came out whenever money is not talked about, but I think it would be useful for you to, say, nationalize NIS. You'll have to deal with the SPS, which was a very thorough partner in the South Stream and NIS sales arrangement. So, gentlemen, you have a really serious problem here. Don't say you didn't take care of the financials you who are absolutely guilty of everything. Now I'm talking to you as part of the government, not as someone who's been to the government before. You gentlemen are guilty of the deficit and you are to blame for everything that's happened, you know it very well, and it's easy to prove. After all, we expect that the soon-to-be ruling majority will get used to having a fierce opposition here on this side, which won't make any difference between your parties and that won't make a difference whether one of you was in the government yesterday or not. We're absolutely not interested in the story of the past, unlike all of you who've taken your word and talked only about the past. We don't care about that. We are interested in what you will give the citizens of Serbia. You haven't given that evidence yet, but there's time. No one will yet attack you for what you have not suggested, but be sure that as an opposition, we too have the right to a dose of rational skepticism that what we are now being announced does not well in any segment. Of course, what affects us, Mr. Wolfie, is not that you used harsh words, you didn't use harsh words, but you used some expressions that I think are slowly supposed to get out of the vocabulary. First of all, express the type - regime. If there is a regime, it means that the regime carries in it a call of democracy and autocracy, and then we can tell you the same thing. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: That's not true, you're illiterate. All right, I'll ignore those qualifications, of course, because I have respect for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u90	Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, as a representative of the mandated promoter, came forward. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends and peoples MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have waited all day to see what my sin is and I have concluded that my sin is that I called you the former regime, although you are still a regime, you are in power and not we. You, Mr. Stefanovic, came here today with five bodyguards, and I drove the car. I paid for my own gasoline, and your gas was paid for by the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Stefanovic. The word "reg" is not a bad word, you came up with it as something ugly in 2000 when you spoke to some exes. The word "reg" in translation means – management, government. It's nothing ugly, it's nothing bad. Unfortunately, you learn this early in law school, I'm sorry you missed those classes. We are now analysing everything you have said, after I have established it, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, which in the right sense and in the right sense of the word I used the word "region" and that in this way I offended the DS. So that's my fault. As for the detour, Mr Stefanovic, I didn't say that we were going off the European path or off the path of preserving national interests, which you didn't really take much care of. If I said we'd get out of the way of corruption, out of the way of organized crime, I promise you we'll get off that path. That's the thing I guarantee you. As for Mr. Luka Bojovic, one of the leaders of the criminal clans in Serbia, I have told the prosecutor you have appointed, Mr. Stefanovic, the special prosecutor and how every well-intentioned citizen of Serbia behaves, in accordance with the law, that special prosecutor has made all his findings known. The D.A. asked me to keep an open mind because of the investigation and everything he had to do, and I'm not going public with it. I have fulfilled my duty. As for stealing the election, and that's what we're gonna do, Mr. Stefanovic, that's what we're just gonna do, don't dream and think that someone's gonna forget about it. That's what we're going to do. We're going to do it very seriously. That's what I want to say to these independent media that are in your possession, owned by formerly Srdjan Saper, formerly Dragan Gilas, once some tycoon, sometimes anyone else, some who gets apartments in Belville, etc., completely irrelevant. So, all of these, and we're just gonna see how you became the owners of "Politics," and how I find out today, both "News" and "Vaca". Mr. Stefanovic, don't make it up, don't use disgusting lies, say I threatened to arrest you. I'm just talking about one thing, I finished law school a long time ago, but one thing I know, I'm not in the process. Under our Code of Criminal Procedure, which I have a number of objections, prosecutors are conducting an investigation and I have announced that the investigation will be conducted. Some investigations have already begun, as I find out, and some investigations will be conducted anyway, and that's not my job. I'm not gonna arrest anyone and I never said that, you made it up, Mr. Stefanovic. What I promised people in Serbia and what the SNS promised, it is certainly much more justice and it is that they will not be protected. They won't be protected in the SNS either, but believe me, they won't be protected in the DS either. That's what we'll be the same, Mr. Stefanovic. I think it's fair and I think it's very fair. So let's see who's what and how he's doing about it. Mr. Stefanovic, you're talking about the Information Law, the obsession of the media. You see, unlike you infallible, only when those mistakes start to be talked about, then you don't know what else you'd like to add. Unlike you, we can talk about our mistakes and talk about it. I can, and I have no problem talking about my personal mistakes. For this I have suffered, also politically persecuted, earned, through all of this, so that today I would tell the whole public of Serbia and all the people in Serbia that we are going to abolish your caucus Law on Public Information, which is ten times worse than that of the Law on Public Information from the war period that you are criticising. That's how normal and decent people behave, they can learn from their mistakes, and they can change something about themselves. If you think that by not changing anything, by talking about the red-and-black junta, I think you should be ashamed. We're not in power for a day, we might become it in five, six or seven days, and you're headed for the dirtiest campaign possible. When you talk about this campaign, one of your newspapers, Mr. Stefanovic, and I'm about to read and quote it, they say about who today became the only subject of DS, it's me, I didn't know you were so obsessed with Alexander Vukic. So, if you are already obsessed with Alexander Vukic, I want to read to the citizens of Serbia what the DS newspaper has published about me. I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for this, for quoting the DS newspaper: "Alexander Vukic is prone to gayism, otherwise an Intronost junkie, etc." It's a newspaper they published three days ago, a newspaper under the control of the former regime. I just want to let you know that I've never had a cup of coffee in my life, and I've never had a cigarette in my life, and I've never seen drugs. So much for the campaign and so much for the people who teach us here. Other things I don't even talk about. So much for those who hold moral sermons and lectures here as they should, and you keep holding the letter, you continue to act as very important, as those who need to teach us how to rule. You are in power, Mr Stefanovic, it may change in seven days, but believe me, it will be a good, happy and big day for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u92	Thank you very much. It's a replica on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u93	No, it's not a replica on the line, because Mr. Vucic speaks as a proposal for what he has the right to say as much as he wants. (President: Well, anyway. Well, it doesn't matter. So, since I'm mentioned I have the right to a replica. I think it's a complete lie and the most disgusting lie possible, Mr. Vukic, that I came with five bodyguards to a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm looking into your eyes right now, and I'm telling you that. I didn't come with any bodyguards to the Serbian Parliament, but I had protection at the request of the Minister of the Ministry of Interior because of the serious threats of certain people you know who they are, and who I don't really need to appoint right now, because they're in custody. Therefore, today and in the future I will come as an MP all alone, for I have nothing to fear. And you as the best law school student, which I really appreciate for you to tell us that we're setting up prosecutors, which is completely unclear to me, you mean the government, that the government is setting up prosecutors and that's being taught in the first year of law school. We'll see when you're Minister of Defense tomorrow, how many bodyguards you'll be coming with and where you'll be staying and what fuel you'll be spending. So, don't throw that at yourself. I think it's inappropriate, and I don't think anyone here resented you for using one term, just so we understand each other, maybe we haven't heard from each other. You used more things that suggested that people who had made and had a majority by yesterday, and had a government did only, and only the disastrous things that had reversed this country, and you know it very well that it wasn't true, and even better know your coalition partners. So, please, if we at least listen to each other and don't grab each other's terms. I think it's normal and civilized and tomorrow you'll be in the government, and you'll come here often, and you'll be making suggestions that we might accept for the benefit of Serbian citizens, that we have a civilized, normal relationship based on facts. (President: Mr Stefanovic, two minutes. And the fact that we're setting up prosecutors is completely false. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u95	I'll be done in less than a minute. I won't tell you anything, Mr. Stefanovic, I'm sorry if I offended anyone by calling you "the former regime", that was the hardest word I've ever used today. But I want to tell you one thing, to answer you -- I'm not coming with any bodyguard, although you know it's supposed to be a commitment, I'm not coming with any bodyguard, I'm not going to live in the residence that's scheduled, I don't need any of that. If I can help make the changes, I can, if I don't get away much faster than you think. I'm sorry, today's funny for you to think I'm talking in the third person, so I'd better say in the first place that I'm your theme. It is obvious that the DS had no other topic, I wish you all the best to continue your work and once again to remind me all of our support we are giving the election of Heavenly Stefanovic as president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u96	Thank you. The word has Dr Branislav Blazic. You're giving up, thank you. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u97	First of all, I would like to support the choice of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic to his party colleague who has won the candidacy for this place from the highest party authorities, he has earned his way of working, working together, but also by caring for that spirit of tolerance and how he treats his colleagues in the party, all other political friends and those who experience himself differently, and we all consider them only political competition. He's a family man, a caring father, and it doesn't matter for this function. Only those who are responsible for the future of their children, if they are fortunate to have them personally, or to the children of their friends or relatives, know that they are responsible for society and the future. This wasn't my party duty to say, because Mr. Vukic said enough. But I have an obligation, because of the citizens of Serbia, because of all the members of the SNS, because of all those who voted for us, to react to the deception that has been made here in the Assembly, where the really good will of the coalition created as a parliamentary majority, which will form the government, to show the spirit of tolerance and co-operation with the opposition, has made a decision to assign a certain number of committees to the leadership of the opposition and that it is a goodwill and not a legal obligation. I'll show that Article 23. The Rules of Procedure, my former Rules of Procedure, which has been spelled out with a few sentences that I am obliged to read for the sake of the truth. The amendment of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, tabled, has no other words when someone submits an amendment which was not discussed in the procedure, on 27 September 2010, and read – that in the composition of the committee, when determining the proportion of participation of parliamentary groups in a total number of members and deputy board members, most of those parties making up the parliamentary majority are provided. Yeah, that's what Alexander Wolf said. But I must repeat because I have written down today, and I am convinced that this coalition will never come into such danger, whether it is enough to be a government and whether it is enough just to have so much impertinence to propose mechanisms that undo the basic postulates of parliamentary democracy. And that today you who have been insolent enough and believed that you will never come down from power resent someone who wants to be tolerated and gives convincing evidence of it, you are not talking about your goodwill, but rather the procedure. What's the relative possibility of even being entered into the Rules of Procedure then, I asked, if you're erasing it here? Is the force, the uncontrollable power that the government showed at that time the reason to talk like this today, I'm not asking because I don't want it to continue. We will not contribute to anything that the one who has the majority is questioning democracy, because we want to co-operate with all those for whom the people voted. I want my colleague Gordani Comić, who, at the first consultations, showed this spirit of tolerance, to thank and hope that in the spirit of Mr Antic's talks, and Mr Vukic, and everyone else in the coalition, this spirit of co-operation in this high house will indeed be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u98	Thank you. Replica, Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u99	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, therefore, none of us has disputed the right of the parliamentary majority to have a majority on all committees. So, I don't know why it was necessary to quote this specifically now, because we think that the basic spirit of parliamentaryism is that one who has a parliamentary majority has the opportunity to work and lead politics, or represent the policy that this parliamentary majority has defined. So I don't understand why it's undemocratic and why you're giving it to us now, because we didn't even mention it. So we absolutely do not dispute the right of the majority to have a majority on all committees. What was problematic for us is -- we're ready to give you this or that. So, it's not about someone being ready, there are rules. If you don't like those rules, you change them, so let most of them not have a majority on the boards if you think it's democracy, but I don't think it is. I still believe that the parliamentary majority must have a majority on all committees and that a proportional number of MPs should be represented on all committees as we have received quotas and gave nothing to anyone here. We are exactly on the basis of the number of MPs we have assigned to the number of members of the board we have. What has been a practice so far and what we believe will remain a practice is that the opposition also has the right to be president and vice president of the board, as well as the right to have six vice-presidential seats.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u100	Thank you very much. Does the word have a National MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u101	There is no such thing as ingenuity and the act of democracy that can fool citizens that you really are for democracy and that you have not really objected to our good intentions to leave the opposition to be truly part of the board. What's the right of someone to have a board president from the opposition if you're denying it by such a provision? We don't want to play democracy, we want it to exist. All your arguments here are too much and I won't answer for a word anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u102	Thank you very much. The word is by MP Milos Aligrudic, the Democratic Party of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u103	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is hard for us from the DSS to be interested in discussions among those who committed yesterday's power and bring all their dirty laundry here to the citizens of Serbia. Likewise, even though we are not indifferent, but I would hardly give primate and debates to those who are excited about losing positions as a result of these past elections, so I would hardly like to share any great delights with those who will assume the responsibility of the government in the next period. So here we see parliament as a legislative institution and as a place to discuss politics and lead politics. In that spirit and in that sense, we are observing the functioning of parliament. Earlier, something about politics itself. These elections, which are behind us today, are due to these elections in a practical way or are partially satisfying the interests of all those citizens in Serbia who truly wanted to change. I'm saying in part because I don't think they were expecting the kind of constellation we have today, but it was obviously the result of a possible moment. Why do I say that? Because the policy offered by the DSS to citizens and in which a good part of Serbia's citizens believed for a reason, but apparently in not enough numbers, because there are 21 out of 250 of us, it is an alternative path that differs from the Danga scenario, which is different from what is called that the path to the EU does not have an alternative, based on rationality, rational economic logic and rational political logic. Unfortunately, this collectiveism or the spirit of community on the principles that carry the haze and the vague things in it, the obvious helmet of political reality itself of European reality, and the EU as an extremely important factor on the political scene, on the political map of the world. The EU itself must go through a difficult reform process. The processes that take place there, which take place on a broader scale, which is also the head of the DSS Parliament Club, Professor Slobodan Samardzic, spoke about the reintroduction of multilateralism into the world order, so something that definitely changes from the root and political reality in Serbia. Unfortunately, everyone doesn't see it right away, but that's exactly why the conversation on this topic is going to come and we're going to have a chance to talk about it and in this building, hopefully, we're talking about it in the next period and we're going to have a chance to convince each other. So when it comes to that, it's something that gave the congregation majority physionomics at this point. We do not belong to that congregation majority for that purely formal reason. We won't vote for the proposed candidate for president of the National Assembly, but we won't be against it either, so we can define our position right now. It also gives me the right to send a few words to the candidate for National Assembly President, so that I will simply state what we of the DSS think should be and that, according to us, Parliament's leadership should be regulated. It is simply impossible to do so without looking back at all the shortcomings of the parliament's leadership and how regulated relations in parliamentary life have been for the last four years. We have exhausted several significant changes to the Rules of Procedure over the past four years, whose goal was not to speed up the work of parliament, not that simple processes in parliament are being carried out simply and quickly, of course, at speed, but that the goal was to prevent opposition action and to prevent the basic thing that every parliament in the world characterises, which is a debate. Number one, we didn't have a debate in Parliament. The debate was completely suspended. How'd that feel? This was partly done by the amendments of the Rules of Procedure, and in part it was done or, to a greater extent, by arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, because at that time, I will remind you, although the speaker of parliament was Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, the physionomist of political will, was like the DS, and also the way in which the leading parliament was or interpreted by the president of parliament, was practically conducted through a political physionomism that was characterized by the vice president of the then-president of parliament, which was initiated by the DS. So that's that physionomy. That's why I'm not going to talk today about the character and the work of the future president of Parliament, because I don't think we're naive enough to believe that the way Parliament works is determined primarily by the personality of whoever does it. Of course, a person must be well chosen. It must certainly be someone who has a certain reputation above all in his political party, in the middle of where he comes from, in order to be able to carry this significant function, but this is primarily about the political will of the assembly majority, which, above all, is behind Parliament's election. I think at that time the will of the parliamentary majority was as I described it. I sincerely hope and want the will of the newly formed parliamentary majority to be different, to be as most described by the motion of the future speaker of parliament, Aleksandar Vukic. If 70% of what he said here is true, we have reason to be somewhat content. We sincerely hope that this will be implemented in practice. This primarily means changing the disputed provisions of the Rules of Procedure, meaning changing the way we all treat each other, changing the understanding of the essence of political debate and speech in parliament, because we are a legislative body, we are not an extended administrative hand of someone else, but we have our own autonomous will. When we talk about the law, it's not our speech to stick to the technical standards of speech, it's the rules of speech, it's the point of making our own political judgment. If it takes me 10 minutes to argue with my political court by first convincing Andersen's bank, and then I make the point, please allow me to do so. If I am wrong, if my position is wrong, then the citizens of Serbia will give it to me as an MP who I represent and about my political party, who has decided to allow me such behaviour, but let us not do things as previously done, to bring MPs and elected representatives of the citizens into one administrative mold, into one machine, or to extend the hand of their assistants, administrative assistants who sit around him and who should explain to him what and how to do. If there are standards in the Rules of Procedure, which point to the discretionary behaviour of the chairman, this should be understood in the broadest sense, not restrictively and as interpreted by the previous ruling majority. If in the Constitution of Serbia, and I guess we have committed ourselves to respecting this constitution, we have a provision that says that there is an initiative of citizens, if citizens have a legislative initiative, if every MP has a legislative initiative, the obligation of the ruling majority that only reflects through the election of the chairman, or president, should enable those citizens represented by MPs, or those citizens who give a direct legislative initiative, to have this initiative on the agenda. Over 25 legislative proposals were submitted by the DSS, most of them from economic areas in the previous assembly of parliament, none of them saw light days in this tide. Why? Because someone had no interest in discussing things. If the ruling majority finds the strength to correct this weakness, then we have indeed made a major shift. Then maybe I could say I'm sorry if I won't vote for those who actually make that move today. We do not belong to the ruling majority, because apparently someone in the ruling coalition had a good reason to make a certain distance between one policy that the DSS advocated and what was found to be a compromise solution between those who make up the ruling majority today. But it's a matter of the ruling majority. That's why we're not even sneezed, we have no reason. It is our obligation to explain our rational, primarily on the economy, on economic logic and on the logic of the protection of state interests and statehood. We will also do so in the future with the hope that rationality and modernity in the political perception of the state's movement will prevail over the next four years. Certainly, I want those who are elected to their functions to succeed in the work, I want them to stick to the letters of the Constitution and I want them to develop a spirit of tolerance in this Parliament, and we will, if so, help them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u104	Thank you. He applied for the word Jovan Palalic, DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u105	Gentlemen, it is certainly an opportunity to elect a new president of the National Assembly to have expectations of change and to make a qualitative difference in work compared to the previous period. We're talking about what citizens expect. Citizens, of course, expect to be proud of the National Assembly and expect it to change both the role of the National Assembly and the way it works. When we talk about changing the role of the National Assembly, I mean its change in relations with other authorities, because you will admit that we must finally, as someone here said, establish that there is parliamentary democracy in Serbia based on the Constitution and that the National Assembly is a very important body, the highest legislative body of government. Therefore, the National Assembly must change its role towards the executive authority, it must change its role towards the legislative authority and must change its role towards the public. I could not agree with a large number of MPs, who have said here, that the previous period of work of the National Assembly marked the quality, marked the atmosphere of tolerance and marked one position so-called. an independent or independent body as the National Assembly should be compared to the executive authorities. When it comes to roles, I am taking the opportunity to point out here to a respected colleague Stefanovic the problems I believe that after today, when elected, he will overcome so that we do not come to the situation that the National Assembly, the highest legislative authority of the government, violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous four years, we have witnessed that the National Assembly was under pressure from the ruling majority, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic, making unconstitutional laws in the National Assembly, unconstitutional decisions, unconstitutional projects that are now falling before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Can we be proud of such a national congregation that did so? To remind you, then the DSS said that it was not in accordance with the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, that it was not in accordance with the Constitution of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, that it was not in accordance with the Constitution of the judicial reform. There was noise here, accusing us of blocking autonomy, of holding back the reform of the judiciary, so that now the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia would give us the right. Mr Stefanovic, we expect that the National Assembly will not pass legislative acts that are contrary to the Constitution, that it will be the protector of the Constitution and that there will be no one who will accept that under pressure from the government of the Republic of Serbia's policies here brings acts on which we would be blushing tomorrow in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and who would be shot down before the Constitutional Court. When it comes to the role of the National Assembly, I must remind you that this National Assembly was under pressure from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prevent the debate on the most important state issues. Only twice after the major crises, following the strong pressures of the opposition, citizens, the public assembly discussed the most important issue of KIM. This, following the International Court of Justice's opinion, failed the policy of the then ruling majority in front of the largest judicial institution and when the separatist group Hashim Thaci attacked Serbs in northern Kosovo. They were stalling, but it was just so pressure that it had to be debated. All initiatives that the DSS and other opposition parties have never found light days in the National Assembly. Running around different corners, so-called. By means of a policy, we came where we came from when it came to the politics and position of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM. We have never discussed European integration. Today we hear that it is one direction that Serbia will not leave. Today we are facing a huge change in the world my colleagues were talking about. We accused and said Slobodan Milosevic slept through the earthquakes of the Berlin Wall and that that's why Serbia suffered the consequences and that it remained in the past. Some slept through earthquakes on the street in 2008 when nothing was the same when the world changed. Those who slept through it are now in the past. They do not see the problems facing the EU and all that goes on. Not to mention the EU's blackmail and pressures in this very process were towards Serbia. We need to talk about whether this is the right way. I believe that the President of Parliament and the new assembly will allow MPs to discuss the vindication of European integration with the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to working, my colleagues talked a lot about it. I must point out that what was the way, the manner of managing the National Assembly, was indeed a step back from the standards achieved by 2008. By 2008, we had jointly established state policy on the subject of KIM, harmonising the most important state views. There was maximum debate, great tolerance in interpreting the Rules of Procedure. We were here to witness that whenever an opposition MP was attacked by a minister's representative in the discussion, he asked for a replica, he was turned off by a microphone. Discretionally, they make the chairman – I do not give you the right to reply. We couldn't argue with the ministers here. If anyone has the patience to look at the stenograms, they'll see what the atmosphere was like in the National Assembly. I believe that fellow Stefanovic will change that and that this will be the House of Open Discussion on all issues whether they like the current ruling majority or not. The citizens of Serbia, who voted for all of us here, should know what our views are here and how state policy is determined. I believe that the ministers, the Prime Minister, will often stay in the National Assembly and that they will also, if they violate the Rules of Procedure, if they are arrogant towards the MPs, be criticised by the chairmanship of the Assembly and that they will be those who will be more deprived of the right to settle here than will be allowed to extend their freedom to criticise them, to attack them. Therefore, we expect the changes to be made, we expect better work in the coming period. I believe that that time, which it marked in 2004 to 2012 in the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia, will never again and that in the coming period, all of us here, primarily on the most important state issues, will negotiate, reach a compromise and that citizens will see that Serbia is not to this end quarreled and divided and that it can agree on the most important state issues. Look at other countries, they may have big differences between parties, but when it comes to state interests, basic problems, what makes the state and the citizens the most difficult, they know to agree. We have great expectations of the promise to bring the KIM policy into line with the National Assembly, that European integration will be discussed and that we will be able to agree on all this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. The list of speakers registered for debate on this point – The selection of the National Assembly president is concluded. I'd like to say a few words, as a People's MP, not as chairman. I was in two convocations of the People's MP of this house and after four or five years I was again invited to be a candidate on the list for MPs, I refused, because I had enough experience to be a MP in such conditions, not particularly inspiring, nor provides opportunities for some creative work and agreement on the country's progress. I have established today, in the meantime, just to say that as President of the Bogata Serbia Movement, I have returned to politics again, as the oldest MP, here I am in this place. And by watching this session today, I find that things haven't changed much. I said at the beginning of this session that, my dear friends, we must use more time, and today in the debate on the election of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, as president of the National Assembly, was not demonstrated and shown. On the contrary, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic was in the shadow of conversations, memories, memories, accusations, what anyone once did, missed, etc. I understand that the issue should be discussed, but yet it could also be done in one way that would be creatively guided, with the intention of reaching an agreement. I will vote and support Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, not only because he is the only candidate, but because the man proposed by a significant parliamentary group should be given a chance and support, that at the post of Parliament's president he is working on making this home truly the highest authority of Serbia, as a legislative body, before which the executive authority, the Prime Minister, will be able to account, to answer parliamentary questions, to return the institution of impelation, and to put together, as the Assembly, the agenda, and not to work and act on the agenda that the Serbian Government puts together, or to demand, as Palalic said little time, that Kosovo should be discussed and some other life issues, and if the government misses it, then on our proposal. This young man, I hear he's the second youngest president in history. He was Oliver Dulic before him, somewhat younger, at a time when he was president of the assembly for a year and he deserved our support. There are things, there are issues that are surreal and we don't have to underline on every issue - if he's not from our party, that we're against him, etc. We need to appreciate whether the job, whether the proposal, a project that someone here is proposing, exhibiting, deserves to be accepted as something that is the solution to this country or not. If it isn't, then let's fix it with the amendments. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the search of the point at which we have discussed the proposal to have Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic elected MP. Now we're going to join the vote. One announcement, I was warned by Secretary Odalovic, to tell you that in accordance with Article 87. I am extending the Rules of Procedure to 18.00 hours until the hearing is concluded on the agenda points of this session. Do you agree? Thank you. Consent of the power specified in Article 9 of Article 5. I am laying down a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly where there is only one candidate, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Since the National Assembly carried out a search and pursuant to Article 9(5) of the Convention, The Rules of Procedure set out a list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that according to Article 10(1) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If we decide to vote publicly, then we will vote by calling the MPs, as provided for in Article 10(2). I am voting on a proposal that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote - by calling, and we do it as soon as possible because we have only one candidate. We're accessing an electronic vote. Who's in, press the key? Here you go. We have a quorum. There are 177 MPs present here in the O.R. Now the Secretary of the National Assembly, Veljko Odalović, will call on the MPs of the people, and you will make a loud statement – for or against. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs. This is provided for in Article 10(2). Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 131. Rules of Procedure arranged procedure... Please insert the cards and state whether you are in favour of the election vote for the National Assembly president being held by a public vote. I'm putting a motion to vote. The vote is by electronic means. The election of the speaker of the assembly was voted by 143 MPs against four, no abstentions, not by 39 MPs of a total of 186 MPs. All MPs should be called before moving to a roll call by Mr. Veljko Odalovic, Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Each appointed MP pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not want to vote. That's enough for a roll call. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the People's Parliament and shall smite its absence, with its name. Before we move on to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 104, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, found that the National Assembly elected by a majority of the votes of all MPs by the National Assembly president, which means that a MP who received most of the votes of all MPs was elected to the National Assembly. I am voting on the proposal to elect a National MP for the National Assembly, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I'm asking the secretary general to make a call to the MPs. VELJKO ODALOVić: Aligrudić Miloš – abstention, Antić Ivan – v, Antić Aleksandar – za, Antić Zoran – za, Arsenović Konstantin – za, Arsić Veroljub – za, Atlagić Marko – za, Babić Zoran – za, Bajatović Dusan – za, Banović Donka – abstenzen, Batić Olgica – v, Bečić Igor – za, Blažić Branislav – za, Blečić Marija – za, Blečić Marija – za, Bogdanović Svetislav – za, Varga Laslo – za, Vasalić Zoran – za, Vasić Ljubica – za, Božić Zoran – za, Božinić Zornović – za, Za, Vženović, Vženović za, Vženović, Vženović za, Vženović – za, Vženović, Vžinović, Vžinić, Vžinić, Vžinićićić, Vžinić, Vžinić, Vžinić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžinić, Vžićićić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Varžić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Varjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Varjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Všić, Vjić, Zdić, Zajić, Zak, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Vjić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Vštić, Vš Let's count it, recalculate the votes for, against and abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, after counting your votes, it has been determined that Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic has the next result. 142 MPs voted for it. 48 MPs voted against it. There were 15 MPs with abstentions. A total of 205 MPs voted. Allow me to conclude that the National Assembly has chosen Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic as president of the National Assembly. I call on Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic to take his presidency and also to congratulate him on his election as president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, allow me to thank the SNS MPs, our coalition partners, as well as all other MPs, perhaps especially SVM MPs for their support, of course respecting what Mr Pastor said in his address. Also, I want to thank those MPs who didn't vote for me. I would like to point out that in a function that, believe me, I know well how much burden it carries, and the amount of work and responsibility, I will do everything in this house to rule over the spirit of democracy and tolerance, where equal rights will be enjoyed by all MPs of all parliamentary groups, whether they belong to the parties that make up the ruling coalition or not. Three important tasks, allow me, will not last long, less than one minute, which I would point out today, given my vision of strengthening the role of Parliament and of each individual MP, should be - the full possibility of control, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the executive authorities, and I think that it will be, you will see, newspapers in relation to what was before, strengthening democracy both in parliament but also in our country and, of course, the further opening of Parliament to our public. Of course, in order for Serbian citizens to live better and for this parliament to work as efficiently as possible. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 4:15 p.m. and I'm calling on the presidents of the parliamentary clubs to join me in the president's office for further consultations. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda – THE PRESIDENT'S SERBIA OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY BEFORE we move to the election of vice presidents, I remind you that he is a member of 14. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are prescribed that the National Assembly determines the number of vice presidents on the proposal of the National Assembly president. I propose that the National Assembly determine that there are five vice-presidents in this meeting. This proposal will be made known before we move to the vote on the proposed candidates. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 15. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received five proposals for candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly. As you have seen, the following candidates were proposed for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly: the MPs Arsenović Konstantin from the electoral list Ivica Dačić – SPS-PUPS-JS, Kovač Vesna from the electoral list – Urs Mladjan Dinkić, Korać Dr Zarko from the electoral list Cedomir Jovanovic - PREOKRET, Popović Dr Nenad from the election list DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and Komić Gordana from the election list Selection for Better Life – Boris Tadic. As referred to in Article 16(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Proposer's representative have the right to explain the proposal, asking if the representatives of the Proposer wish to explain the candidates' proposals for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - 57 minutes and 36 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party - 18 minutes, the United Regions of Serbia - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the MP group PUPS – 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the group of Unity Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarians – six minutes, the parliamentary SP – DHS – six minutes – the six minutes and six minutes of the parliamentary group of the Ljudiment Group – the six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'm opening a search for candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application with the order of MPs, were submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – the choice for a better life with three registered speakers. The word is Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate you on your position. I am glad that we have had the opportunity to hear that you are a young, correct man and that you will respect the needs of the opposition in this House, which are nothing less than the extent to which your colleagues had while you were an opposition. I also welcome the decision to extend the number of Serbian Vice-Presidents to five, so that all relevant parties, i.e. parties, have their members in the college, which decides on important issues for the home. I think it's a good indicator that when something is adequately argued, it can come across one support that is really necessary for this Parliament. I think that's how we're going to work in the future. What I want to draw attention to is that there is a democratic procedure in selecting the president of the Assembly committees, which has been established for years, under which opposition parties also run a number of committees, but not by the majority of these committees proposing and saying they are committees that they need to lead, but by agreeing on the college. So, if you expect this parliament to have the democratic capacity it had, if you are truly as tolerant as you say it is, I think it is necessary that you respect the needs that exist in relation to the opposition, and it concerns the chairmanship of the assembly committees that exist in the Assembly. In the past term, the opposition chaired about half the total number of assembly committees. It is important to say that during that term, the opposition led extremely important committees such as the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Finance, the Local Self-Government, etc., and that already today there are indications that the ruling majority has prepared one piece of paper, a proposal in which the opposition should take over certain committees, without having the right to choose which committee it wants to lead and which committee considers it to have adequate staff to be able to lead. What is important to say is that, if we talk today about civil, democratic and any other control, we find it completely unnatural that the position, or government, controls the work of the security service, and controls the work on defence and home affairs. We think that these two committees are the minimum that the opposition should have to control, because that's exactly what that democracy is, which I suppose, led you when you spoke about Serbia being a developed country with a European perspective. Everything else points out that there is no elemental desire to establish serious civilian and democratic control, and that I am not talking about the fact that we also feel it is necessary for the Finance Committee to lead someone from the opposition. It will be very important for us to see how you will work the budget, so that we can schedule sessions, monitor the spending of funds, given that there are the most important issues for the citizens of Serbia, which is how the funds are collected by the state and how these funds are spent. It has been announced in public that the state of Serbia will cut its costs, that it will cut the steering apparatus. All these are announcements that have received support from Serbian citizens, but we believe that the objective need of all parties that are in parliament, and above all those who do not participate in the government, is that they have the ability to control these costs through that committee. What I think is good, I stress once again, is that we really think that you are a young and tolerated man and that how much tomorrow you will correct your offer that you made for us today in a surprising way, because today we wanted to talk to you as partners who want to build democratic institutions in this country, and we have got one piece of paper on which we have an offer to say - take it or leave it, which we think is completely inappropriate. I am convinced that such a relationship is also the case with colleagues from other opposition parties, and I am convinced that, if we want to achieve one tolerance here, it is necessary to start by respecting each other and allowing each member of parliament to tell her what is her priority and what is important for the control of the work of the state administration, or future government. Of course, anyone who is in power wants to exercise this control alone, but I believe that the citizens of Serbia voted for you to be better, to give us more chances I am convinced that tomorrow in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs that you have made today, you will be aware that the cards are practically opened and that each party is entitled to the number of its MPs, i.e. to support the citizens of Serbia, chooses those committees that it considers to be very important for them. Once again, I congratulate all who will be elected today as vice presidents of the congregation. I think that this is also very important for this Assembly, and I want, of course, to begin working in a democratic and tolerated atmosphere as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u111	Thank you. To that end, I have also scheduled consultations that will take place tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. in the National Assembly with all the heads of Parliament's clubs, and I must tell you, the truth of the will, in the previous convocation of committees, such as the Defence and Security Committee and the Administrative Committee, were led by MPs from the ruling majority. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am patient and patient enough to listen to a scream and I have no problem with it, but if you let me, Mr. President, when a man listens to DS representatives, simply don't believe what they are and how well they think about Serbian citizens. It is good that you commended the majority of the Assembly who decided to have five vice presidents. I just want to tell the citizens of Serbia that it had nothing to do with you, that you didn't even want to participate, or to help, because the signatures to elect the fifth vice president from the Liberal Democratic Party gave the SNS, not the DS. Just so that the citizens of Serbia know the truth, that they know who's democratic, that they know who's who thinking about what parliament should look like and if you see it, you would never talk about it if you didn't take the floor. Then you told us -- the list of committees that you really want to control, and I want to tell the citizens of Serbia what it is that was offered to the opposition in the Serbian Parliament, and there are colleagues from the DSS, who, meanwhile, asked us to give them one of the most important committees -- that's the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We accepted that. So, just in a few words of mutual communication and we accepted that. What is it that you asked for and what is it? We offered opposition parties, ready to talk, ready to change our attitude, ready to give something more important, we offered the following, which they say is not enough – the Committee for Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism, Energy. We have offered the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, Information Society, the Committee on Culture and Information, the Committee on Health and the Family, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Environment, the Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region. We were asked for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we said – no problem, please choose the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You tell us what you want, just don't tell us how you've given us everything and how you've given the opposition everything, because we've established today, not us, but together with us and our opposition colleagues who have been with you in opposition. The only thing you did was deny the right of MPs, the Rules of Procedure to take the right to the word, by shortening the ability for people to express their views and their political views. As far as we're concerned, right now, it's impossible for you to get everything you want, but we're ready to talk, and we're ready to respect some more of your wishes and some of the other things that you think would contribute to civil control, any sector of defense, security service and anything else, anything that you didn't allow during the previous period. All that you didn't allow in the previous period is that we're ready to talk about it. At the same time, I want to tell you that what you're saying is that the heads of these committees were people of the opposition, they were a few months, three or four months. After that, I suppose, dissatisfied with the way they exercised that control, you replaced them, and no one from the opposition was ever at the head of those committees ever again. It's also about the Security Committee. It's about the Administrative Committee. So much for what's true. My problem today is that someone would want no one to remember anything, that no one remembered anything, and that about everyone should learn today how democracy flourished during the period in which Serbia suffered the most poverty and in the period during which this parliament lost its dignity. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u113	Mr. Konstantinovic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would just remind all the MPs if we had an important agenda point, that's the choice of vice president of the National Assembly. We'll discuss the committees tomorrow at the consultation. As for the right to speak, Rules of Procedure, in such a way that all MPs, especially on such an important subject, are entitled to say that this is a minimum of what parliamentaryism means. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u114	President of Parliament, I have come forward precisely because there can be no discretionary rights of the president or the chairman when anyone will get the right to speak. Ambassador Alexander Vukic had no right to have the word just now. For a simple reason because he wasn't registered as a speaker. You do not have one registered for discussion, except for the list you received from the DS parliamentary group. They're not the heads of the parliamentary groups. He's been talking for over four minutes, we don't know on what basis. So please, you are here today on the first day, to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What we had a chance to hear was that the opposition had no right, I can tell you, for the sake of truth, the Finance Committee has led the opposition from the beginning to the end. The Defence and Security Committee was led by Dragan Todorovic for more than three years and headed by the board. Twelve committees were led by opposition representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u115	Mr. Konstantinovic, if you have already called on the Rules of Procedure, you know what business provisions are, please tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, but I ask you not to go into further discussion in the debate on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure which has nothing to do with this. (Nenad Constantinović: Article 96) In accordance with Article 96 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, – President or representative of the parliamentary group who has the right to speak for up to 20 minutes, except that this time can be divided into two parts. In 96, it gives the presidents of parliamentary groups the right to speak in the National Assembly. Also, it will not be a discretionary right to be awarded to one of the presidents of the parliamentary group, but to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups in this assembly. The word is Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u116	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 96. You haven't read it all the way, there's another addition in that article. But what I'm trying to say is this. There's always talk here, and all day long, there's Mr. Vukic here as a host, who worships, gives, will, answers to everyone, and tomorrow he'll be a minister, here he'll fool us all, and he'll go to the government. We'll stay here to search his replicas. Please, the problem is the biggest problem for countries that have not been in democracy, to democratisation, to understand the opposition. I said, the question is hurt, don't interrupt me, because it's an injury, it has to be the president's reaction, that I don't read again, which is why you can't talk to me or interrupt me. This isn't a rally, this is a assembly. Please protect me from the incursions. (President: Please, Mr Micunovic, just quote a member of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't speak to the MP. I also ask other MPs not to receive Mr. Micunovic. Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. The problem I'm talking about is the problem not only of the Rules of Procedure, but of democracy. She's gone without opposition. The opposition is here to control the government. This question that we've raised, certain committees, is not random committees, and it's not our discovery, it's the discovery of all parliaments. Ask around, you're new at this, and you'll see why finance, which is why security, which is why the Administrative Board. The progress of a country is only possible if there is a strong opposition that will control power, that you understand that purpose, and not that we are fighting here right now, as if it were a matter of life and death who will chair one committee. It's already formed most of them. It's not the decision-making problem, it's the problem of the debate and the right to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u117	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u118	First of all, I have to say that she saw herself now and that now all the citizens could see the nature of the DS. I'll take it I overstepped that minute. I'm sorry I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I didn't know you had such a problem with that minute that I would use to say, since you have televisions that left you and not us, from this morning's debate – from B92 and beyond. I still want to thank you for showing your true face, even though I told you that we were ready to make a deal, to talk to you. It bothered you that I said that you did not want to sign the LDP either, because you are only interested in your party, just your group, not interested in Serbia. As for the fight, Mr. Micunovic, you're so distracted that I can't help you either, and believe me, I'd give anything if I could help you. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u119	Mrs. Kolundgia, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u120	Mr. President, I'm calling for Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I remind you that you are obliged to honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In your actions you injured Article 96, by speaking in article 96 – in the basic procedure of opening a general search of each session agenda, they have the right to speak in the next order. So, at the time Mr. Vukic came forward and when you gave him your word, you opened the debate in order of the received lists of speakers who applied for the word. At that point, no club chief can use his right as the head of the parliamentary club and speak at that time. I really ask you not to take this as an exorcism of mako to the finish line, but as a reminder that if we all respect the Rules of Procedure together, we will have fewer problems in the joint work. I don't insist on you making any warnings, since you're doing this job for the first time. We're trying to help you, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, create an atmosphere in which you can normally work. The fact is that today, three hours apart, we've received the denials of everything you've been talking about in the afternoon, about tolerance, about the willingness of the opposition to play that role it should play. I remind you that the presidents of the most important committees were of the opposition, because the opposition asked the presidents of these committees. It is, as far as we're concerned, enough that, if you really want, if nothing else, you show good faith, you just respect what we had in the previous term was a practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u121	I just wanted to let you know, with a broader interpretation, that I wanted to allow you, because Article 96 doesn't state that the president of the Parliament Club has no right to speak when the debate is opened. I wanted to allow, in the spirit of tolerance, the possibility, as I would have given the boss, or the president of your parliamentary club or anyone else, the right to speak. As for the further reported, Mr Predrag Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. With full understanding that you're in that position for the first time, I remind you of article 20. Rules of Procedure. The basic principle is the law and the Rules of Procedure are respected. If they don't work, they change. The election of vice presidents is now on the agenda. Having already spoken beyond the subject, Article 20 regulates the selection of the board, but the Rules of Procedure adopted in the previous term, unfortunately introduces a completely irregular term from the papers, which says that the ruling majority, which is not a concept that is general legal, should regulate the relations of MPs, the ruling majority must have a majority. Otherwise, board presidents are elected by committee members. Therefore, all that is presented here as agreements and negotiations, it's simply foreclosures or culinary actions that can be well-intentioned, but this is not where committee presidents are elected, they are elected at committee meetings. Of course, the first one I am prepared to propose to amend all of those members of the Rules of Procedures that are absolutely amazing, which have been adopted, probably the Administrative Committee did not exist, and at the same time to say that Mr. Sutanovac is right. For the first time in 2004, the presidents of the Committee on Security, Finance and the Administrative Committee were introduced to be representatives of the opposition. The chairman of the Administrative Board was Mr. Nikolic, the president of the Security Committee was Mr. Sutanovac, the chairman of the Finance Committee was Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic. In this proposal, I had full support for the DSS, full support for the SPS and full support for G17 plus. Since then it has really existed as a normal rule, but it is necessary to discuss this at a committee session. Now I'm asking you to stick to the agenda and pick the vice presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u123	I support you in this initiative, and I would ask all the MPs to return to the topic now, to speak and to return to the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and tomorrow we will have a session in which all the presidents and representatives of the Parliament clubs will be able to give their part in this debate. I'm giving my word to Mr. Sutanovac and I'm really asking you to move on to the vice president's election.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u124	I must admit I'm surprised by the amount of tension my discussion has caused, which was directed just to help you in your work. The Democratic Party is not in parliament to ask anyone for something, nor should any parliamentary group in this parliament feel the owner of the board, so that it gives something to someone. I do have an understanding, if the DSS colleagues have asked to get a committee, but I don't think it's a democratic principle and that's how it works. Please, let's get this into one system order. That order existed. So neither you nor anyone else, the DS in Serbia's parliament will ask for anything. Simply, let's just do an algorithm in which we systematically solve this problem and that's how we solve it, not that it depends on the amount of stomach acid of an MP, or on gastritis, so if he's nervous that day, he won't give us anything, and if he isn't, maybe he will. I don't think that's how parliament should function and I appeal to you to concentrate on what's the point. I agree that the Rules of Procedure have been broken on many occasions, but I don't think that matters right now. You're young and, let me say, the new president of Parliament, but I ask you that what is the essence, which is that you've had conversations today, these conversations aren't cool, at least I don't think that if someone in the president's office is talking about committees, it can't be cool to me, or something hidden from the public's eyes. The public needs to know that you gave us something we didn't ask for. So we don't need anything that you would give us, but simply to create a principle by which the board presidents will be elected, as this principle was established in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u125	Mr. Ivica Dacic, I presume as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u126	I've come to the phone after I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, most of those who have spoken so far have hurt the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure that you brought, that is, our parliamentary group also... (Hope of Kolundji, from the place, and you're not? I said so too, but please, I didn't throw it to you once as you spoke and obey that rule. While we were in power together, we brought this Rules of Procedure. If Slavica Djukic were here now president, and if you were in the parliamentary majority, all those who would be discussing as you are now discussing, she would probably have already warned, Gordana Comic might have already warned. Anyway, you're required, ladies and gentlemen, not because of me, I can sit here by midnight, but what are we even discussing here, what's the agenda point we're talking about? You are required to be members of 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Here is the agenda – the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Five candidates have been proposed. Does anyone have anything against it? I didn't hear. If you're talking about committees, you're talking about the point of the agenda. As far as I'm concerned, I absolutely don't see that it's bad for Bajatovic to be president of the Defence and Security Committee because you and we chose him when we were in power, so when we weren't bothered to be president of the Committee, what would you mind now when you were in opposition? Anyway, I don't mind, but have the same arches when you're in power and when you're in opposition. I have been everything in my life, both the government and the opposition, and I have supported the minority government and I have been exposed to pressures since October 5th, etc., but I am 22 years in this House. Please, let's go back to the subject. If you think the people are thrilled that we're discussing this right now, I think you're making a big mistake. It's not my place to teach other people's lessons, I'm just warning you that you respect the Rules of Procedure, and I'm warning you, and the president who's now elected, among other things, and my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u127	The word is, in order of application, Mr Dragoljub Micunovic. You're giving up. Thank you. Next reported, Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u128	We just wanted to point out what happened between these two points, because we think it's a responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. So there was one story before the end of the previous point, until this next point something happened that completely denied everything that was said until then. That was why we contacted, to warn that it was not a practice that would build this institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u129	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. If we don't, thank you. I'm finishing the search. Before we move on to the selection of vice presidents of the National Assembly, the National Assembly must first determine the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly. I'm putting on a motion that the National Assembly determines that there are five vice presidents in this meeting. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 171, no one, abstentioned one, voted 22, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that there are five vice presidents in this meeting. We're going back to work. We move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly. Allow me, according to Article 16(5). Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of the last name, I shall establish a list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. According to the proposals submitted, I am setting out the following list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1. Arsenović Konstantin, 2. Blacksmith Vesna, 3. Stepper Dr. Žarko, 4. Popović Dr. Nenad, 5. It's a piece of Gordana. I remind you, according to Article 17(1). The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, shall the National Assembly, on a proposal from the President, decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it is voted by the call of MPs. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by a public vote. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. The Rules of Procedure define that if voted publicly, there must be a call. I'll read you article 17. Rules of Procedure - Before joining the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal from the president whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. Since we have five candidates, I suggest we all plead. You have the right to vote for any of the five candidates or for all of those candidates. You have the right to decide and plead in such a way. I conclude the vote and find that 170 MPs voted in favour of the public vote, against eight, no one abstained, voted 29 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly should be made by a public vote. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly should take place by public vote, in this case Article 17(2). The Rules of Procedure are prescribed to be voted in public, i.e. by a pronunciation. In accordance with the provisions of Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure can be voted on as many candidates as the election of vice presidents and that is between candidates whose names are listed on the candidate list. Before we go to the polls, I remind you it's article 131. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure for the implementation of the public vote by a call and that, according to that provision, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall call on the Members of Parliament by the alphabetical order of the last name, the MPs who approach the vote shall pronounce the full name and name of the candidates for which they vote. The president reiterates the name and the name of the MP who voted in his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not want to vote. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. I note that the National Assembly according to Article 104 paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia elects the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to vote mostly on all MPs. I am putting forward proposals to choose for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, under the regular one Arsenović Konstantin, Kovac Vesna, Korać Dr Zarko, Popović Dr Nenad and Komic Gordana. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the Members of the People in the alphabetical order of the last names recorded on the plea. VELjKO ODALOVić: Aligrudić Miloš – for all five, Andrić Ivan – for all five, Antić Aleksandar – for all five, Antić Zoran – for all five, Arsenović Konstant – for all five, Arsić Veroljub – for all five, Atlagić Marko – for all five, Bajatović Dušan – for all five, Banović Donka – for all five, Batić Olgica – for all five, for all five, Bečić Igor – for all five, Blažić Branislav – for all five, Blečić Marija – for all five, Bogdanović Goran – for all five, Božanić – for all five, Božović for all five, Božović for all five, Žilić for all five, Žalić for all five – Božović Stan – for all five, Božović – Božović – for all five, Budimirović Jelen – for all five, Budžić – for all five, Bulajić – Božić – Božić – for all five, Božić – Bojić for all five, Žić for all five, Žić, Žić for all five, Žalić, Žilić, Žalić – Žalić, Žiić – Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić for all five, Žalić for all five, Žalić for all five, Žalić for all five, Žalić for all five, Žalić, Z. As we await the results of the vote, let me just inform the National Assembly that MP Jana Ljubicic has resigned as MPs of the National Assembly. Since we have determined the results of the vote to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly, allow me to announce the results of the vote. The proposed candidates received the following number of votes: Arsenović Konstantin - 220 votes, Kovac Vesna - 220 votes, Korać Dr Zarko - 220 votes, Popović Dr Nenad - 221 votes, and Komic Gordana - 220 votes. Congratulations to the vice presidents on the election. I hope we have good cooperation. I ask the vice presidents to take their seats. I thank our youngest MPs for their duties until this moment. We continue to work and move on to item 4 of the agenda – NAME OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY You have received a proposal from the President of the National Assembly to appoint Jana Ljubic as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I don't suppose anyone's suggesting that the time of the debate be at night? No, I don't. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - 57 minutes and 36 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group - 18 minutes, the United Regions of Serbia - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the MP group PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia group - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia - six minutes, and six minutes respectively. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a hearing on the motion for candidates for the appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no application has been submitted, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a vote. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 21(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, Secretary General of the National Assembly, were appointed if most of the national MPs voted in favour of the proposal. I would like to put the motion to be called Jana Ljubicic as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: for 131, the vote was not against, it was abstention 17, it did not vote 54, out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has named Jana Ljubicic as the Secretary-General of the National Assembly by majority of the votes. Let me congratulate Jana Ljubicic on her appointment as Secretary General of the National Assembly and wish her much success and good co-operation in performing this function. I ask the Secretary General of the National Assembly to take his place. Allow me to thank Mr. Odalovic as current secretary for his duties. Thank you, Mr. Odalovich. Given that there have been major changes in the composition of the committees and delegations that have been sent to us by the parliamentary groups, I am forced to set a break of one hour to multiply the material and to divide it to all the MPs. We'll continue at 1900 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u133	We discussed today that we would find some key that would take care of the number of MPs, so far it has been in the majority. However, I will begin here from the Council of Europe delegation. The Democratic Party, its club has 52 MPs. Democratic Party of Serbia has 21. That's two and a half times that. In what way and what mathematics have you come to, that these two groups have the same number of representatives in the Council of Europe? Do you think that this should be such a principle, so that our two and a half MPs are worth only one MP to another? I don't mind, I wish there were more MPs and delegates.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u134	As a decision on the composition of the delegation took place during the period until the full establishment of the National Assembly, I was informed that bilateral and multilateral meetings with all representatives of political parties, i.e. parliamentary groups that exist in the National Assembly, and that the principle of the ratio was established for all parliamentary delegations. The total number of members of your delegations corresponds to the amount belonging to your parliamentary group according to the number of Members belonging to that group. I think the consultations were with you, too. You are familiar with the proposal and in writing for the number of members of the delegations, for each delegation of the National Assembly. There have been no objections so far. This is the first time. However, only now in this capacity can I talk about it, but for the first time I've heard that there are some objections. We had a few remarks that I was talking about before the session ended, so we tried to solve it successfully. I really didn't know about this. There is no bad will, believe me, according to your MP group. I think it's a certain exact mathematical coefficient, a system of fertilization of over 50% decimals, below 50%. The same shall be determined for the number of board members.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u135	I asked a very simple question that anyone who knows arithmetic knows how to divide, knows what the ratio is, can calculate and determine what a fair principle it is, that's what it is. Let's check it out, we've got a mathematician here, and I'm some mathematician, and I've been studying math, too, but lock it up, turn it any way you want. Two and a half times, it's not worth a single hole.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u136	So, at all, as our service informs me, at all the meetings that were held in the course, that is, the period prior to the establishment of the National Assembly, all representatives of the parliamentary groups were informed of this, and you received notice at these meetings about this ratio. However, if we were to look at only mathematically, the number of members of your delegation in the total number of delegations corresponds to the number of MPs proportional to the total number of members of the delegation proposed by the National Assembly. Let's say, the SNS, which is larger than your parliamentary group, has two, and if, by that logic, there should be three, but then it wouldn't be possible, there couldn't be any smaller parliamentary group to have members. Mr. Jugovic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u137	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, fellow Members of Parliament, we are dissatisfied with the distribution of our members and deputies in delegations. We were dissatisfied with the schedule of our board members. If this is the treatment that will be practiced in the future, that in this way most respect the minority, then it does not lead in the right direction. I think it should have been defined according to the delegation's policies, as well as the committees. I think our parliamentary club should represent this parliament in certain European organisations, but since we have negotiated one with Veljko Odalovic, after the rotation that has taken place, we cannot address the new secretary, so practice that one secretary, who is no longer a secretary, is negotiating, and the other secretary after the election of delegations, is an address to whom we should address is not good. I want to express my dissatisfaction and I don't know how we can compensate for this failure or how we can make it up to the college tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u138	National MP Elvira Kovac, Dr Slobodan Samardzic and Dr Dragoljub Micunovic applied for the word. Before I tell you that the consultations were conducted during this period with the chairman of the National Assembly. During today, I did not have any consultations regarding delegations, but I think, as far as Mr. Odalovic is concerned, that he did exactly the percentage that belongs to each parliamentary group. You have one member of the delegation and one deputy member, I'm talking about the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group. Mrs. Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u139	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, nor the SVM, the Parliamentary Group, is not pleased with what we have received, or what belongs to us, is not in this proposal, because however we talk about mathematics and rounding, we would belong to one member of the delegation and one deputy member of the delegation. Then we received a notice, namely a request from the former Secretary-General of the Assembly, to make a proposal for a member, and a certain delegation, which means that we had no rights. It is interesting that MP groups that have the same number of MPs as us, so a minimum five, according to this proposal have both a member and a replacement, while we have only a member and we do not have that replacement. For us, a delegation of the CoE Parliamentary Assembly would be extremely important, and it is interesting that very small parliamentary groups now have the right to both member and replacement, while we have had that replacement for years. I have personally worked very actively there for five years, and everyone knows it, and it would be extremely bad if we had no representative in the CoE Parliamentary Assembly dealing with human and minority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u140	Thank you. Dr. Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u141	The problem seems to be that it is impossible for each of these nine delegations to represent proportionality. The proportionality can only be represented in all nine delegations. I've been counting now, for the intervention of professor. Micunovic, this relationship between DS and DSS. DS has 14 representatives, DSS has six. So we're sub-proportional to you, which I pulled out of the count, and otherwise I wouldn't have thought to count if it hadn't been for this intervention. That means it's only obvious that we're represented as well. We are in one delegation that you mentioned - the Council of Europe, but when we look at all nine delegations, I would say that the relationship is just, maybe a little bit more in your favor. But not enough to get me to intervene now. I think we have to deal with it, because, look, some delegations have three members, some six, some nine. It's impossible for everyone to achieve proportionality. There's a lot of us. Fortunately, an individual can't be divided into multiple parts, otherwise, if he could, we'd probably make that ideal proportionality. I don't see a way, but if there's a great dissatisfaction, we can meet again. But this, at first glance, seems to me to be a fair distribution, plus-minus some small damage to some groups and benefits for some, but I think that these damages and benefits are too small for us to be around right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-23-0.u142	Mr. Micunović, do you want a word? (No) I propose that this proposal be adopted today, and that in subsequent consultations between parliamentary groups we try to find a way to make smaller adjustments, if you agree. I think that might be the right solution. As Mr Samardzic said, unfortunately, it is impossible for everyone to be proportionally represented and it is impossible for everyone to be fully satisfied. However, according to those material quantities, in line with the number of MPs, I think this is really fair and fair. Does anyone else from the president want a word? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(2) point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia holds the National Assembly's electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to a decision-making decision in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing the results: 140 MPs voted against, there were six MPs, there were no abstentions, no 29 MPs voted out of a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decisions, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that a new session of the National Assembly is scheduled tomorrow at 3:30. Thank you for your cooperation.
