ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6255	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today, on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, you have the right to request information or explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6256	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would like to ask the question of Minister of Justice, Mr Selakovic. The question concerns the application of the Amnesty Act, which we recently adopted. Namely, those who have the right to apply amnesty under Article 1 of this Act, which was on the warrant, bring different interpretations. Some courts have reached solutions to apply amnesty to these persons, while some courts, especially in Vojvodina, have refused to apply for the reasons set out in Article 4. Article 4 states that the amnesty is not subject to a judicial sentence for which, until the date of entry into force of this law, an arrest warrant has been ordered for failing to report to a prison sentence or for escape from a prison sentence. Because of the inaccuracy of Article 4, we have the consequence that this law is interpreted differently from courts to courts. In practice, persons entitled to amnesty under Article 1 are further punished because Article 4 does not specify that amnesty does not apply to those persons who are on the alert until the date of entry into force of this law for not reporting for the maintenance of the fine, and not those who have been ordered to issue an arrest warrant. I believe it's a technical mistake and that the courts in some of these reasons don't know how to do it. That Article 4 did not specify exactly how the judicial authorities should treat the persons on the arrest warrant. I believe that it is a technical mistake that can be corrected and that this Amnesty Act will be applied in the future without discrimination and against everyone equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6257	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6258	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, my question is about, you won't believe, for the platform on Kosovo. If you think I'm a cepidlaka, I'm really not. I warn you and remind you that extremists threaten violence in northern Kosovo. They've already gone out on the road. I remind you that the argument does not drink water to implement an agreement adopted by the previous government and that these are not new negotiations. It's simple, he doesn't drink water, because the IBM negotiations are on customs. It is clear that customs will be charged in Mitrovica, southern Mitrovica, Nis. That means it's clear who's left with the money. The platform should regulate that question - how much of that money goes to northern Kosovo? We don't have a say in it. It is normal that when there is no platform and there is no support for what the government negotiator is doing, extremists raise their heads and try to take advantage of that empty space. You don't think that last July's platform is a framework for what's going on right now. So now he's Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and all that goes with Mr. Vukic, he also said he'll be back again, he'll be gone, but he's gone. The absence of the platform, or support of the Assembly, of what is happening in Brussels. Tonight, our prime minister is working dinner in Brussels without a platform. I absolutely don't think the Assembly is at the height of the task, that she has escaped and left to the government. I think the support of the Assembly would relax the situation in northern Kosovo and Serbia. First question - where's the platform? The second question is about something that happened last year. You remember there were elections in some municipalities in Kosovo. You remember that the speaker of parliament did not call elections for Zubin Potok and Zvecan. Some elections were held there, but not in accordance with the Serbian Constitution and laws, because they were not even called. Here I see the material for the session of the Kosovo Committee on Thursday, representatives of these municipalities sign some conclusions on the application of the IBM agreement and are obviously already implementing these conclusions today. My question -- who pays for municipal structures that are, under quotes, elected in the elections, also under quotes? Is that paid out of the budget? I'm not asking for a cleaning lady in the county and a community fund-raiser. I am asking for the president of the municipality and for the council council these two municipalities that had elections, but not according to the laws of Serbia, and as far as I know by the laws of Kosovo. Is the budget money spent on illegal structures? If something is illegal, you will agree that the two municipalities are illegal because there were no official elections. The third question is addressed to you, Mr. Stefanovic. We had more than a month ago a session of the KiM Committee, which concluded, by a large majority, that a survey committee would be formed to examine the spending of money in Kosovo from 2000 to October this year. In the budget debate the other day you did not accept, you from the ruling majority, our amendment to the DRI control the spending of money in Kosovo. We, as a committee, have concluded that we should examine that spending in the past, which is why we have proposed an amendment, that it is not done again in the future through the survey board, but you have decided to do so. I'm asking you, how long has this conclusion been going from Drecun to you? When will the College at least discuss the formation of a survey board? That's what I'm asking you about this second question. Some things are funded that shouldn't be financed. After all, I'm not talking about television shows right now. I must remind you, Mr. President, that some MPs from your party have voted. Most of the time, that conclusion was adopted. I don't think there's only one, but I'm not holding him as a member of your party, he's being transferred here. Those others who are there for political reasons, they voted. When will there be a debate on the formation of this polling committee? I asked three questions. First, what about the platform? Secondly, are representatives of the municipal structures Zvecan and Zubin Potok, who had no elections, financed from the budget? Whatever they organised in private, it does not oblige the state of Serbia, the government is bound by laws and budgets. Third, what about the polling committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6259	I'm sorry, your time is up. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6260	I will ask a question which, according to the SPO and DHSS, is one of the main issues in Serbia. The consequences of all the bad that has been done are enormous, and it is about privatisation in Serbia. In fact, Serbia is the country where the privatisation process has been the longest in the region since 1989 and has not yet been completed. By that negative leader in the region. We are also a negative leader in the region and by the way privatisation was done and by the effects of privatisation, because almost 80% of the privatised companies did not continue to operate, workers were expelled to the streets and left to the state. In a political sense, SCI and DHSS are probably the most qualified to ask this question for the following reasons. No one had such a desire in 2012 or before to make Serbia a member of the EU, to be a normal state, to attract healthy foreign capital, healthy domestic capital, to have privatisation done in the right way, justly, not to shut down and sell down companies, but to expand their production, to go to the European market. It was a dream dreamed not only by members of the SPO and DHSS, but by all of our supporters who unfortunately went through the transition process as fighters for Europe's Serbia. As a rule, privatisation is done according to the following scenario. He bought the owner of a company with money of suspicious origin, and the state wasn't interested in establishing the origin of the money. All the benefits from the purchased companies were drained. Workers were left out of work, equipment was sold, land, and companies were often bought to praise the company that a certain owner of suspicious capital is also the owner of the company, with no idea what to do with the purchased company. Workers were forced into the streets, often without social and health insurance, and were comforted that one day Serbia would be a European country and that they should not be a brakester of change and the European path of Serbia. In all governments, the SPO has indicated irregularities in privatisation. Countless times, the leader of our political party, Vuk Draskovic, said that mice bit off our dreams and that is not what we fought for. We think it's a good time for Serbia, regardless of what few companies remain in the privatisation process, or restructuring, and it is likely that the privatisation process will follow, regardless of what 25% of privatisation has been annulled and whatever the fate of a large number of enterprises most likely await bankruptcy or liquidation, we think that the time has turned one new page in this process and that we behave in the manner that the Hungarians have been acting, which attracted 90% of healthy foreign capital, and kept only 30% of the healthy domestic capital. The case of Azotare Pancevo is the best example of how the state and the privatisation agency treated the owner who bought the "Azotar", i.e. the owners. They promised that Azotara would be the leader in the production of artificial fertilizer, and already next year the most valuable part of the factory and equipment sold to the Russian company 32.5m euros. The workers informed all the necessary institutions, but no one reacted. With time running out, my specific questions are next. How much money was received from privatisation in Serbia? Was the privatisation money spent on investments or other needs? Has the Privatisation Agency been monitoring and controlling timely whether privatisation contracts are respected? How many workers lost their jobs because of bad privatisations? Is there a government plan for a detailed review of all privatisations and calling for the responsibility of all criminals involved in privatisations? Is there a government's intention to make a very bad labour law change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6261	Thank you. The word is by MP Neven Adzmovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club and on behalf of my own behalf, I have a very important question, and I think the answer to that question is that thousands of Serbian citizens and members of their families are interested. I think the answer to this question is what I'm going to ask first of all for the health of our children. What's this about? We are witnessing that many residential buildings contain antennas of various companies providing mobile phone services. Is it possible that such antennas are also located on buildings where education institutions are located, such as the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade? I was contacted by very concerned parents whose children are staying in the children's kindergarten "Peter Pan" on Jove Ilic Street, very close to the Faculty of Political Sciences, where the mentioned antennae is located. So, I'm asking if the mentioned antenna is dangerous to people's health, and especially children? Respecting people's concerns, especially parents, I ask which schools in Belgrade have mounted antennas on their facility? I want to know if it is possible for us MPs of the National Assembly, and therefore all citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, to get answers to these questions in the form of expert findings and opinions of competent institutions on the possible adverse impact on the health of people who live, live and work near these antennas? The opinion of most citizens is that these antennas have a harmful fact in the environment and human health. Given my interest in a specific location, it's a college building, I expect an answer from the minister of education. Also, I expect an answer from Mr. Rasim Ljajic, as we know these antennas serve to perform the work from the portfolio of Mr. Rasim Ljajic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6263	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6264	Mr. President, I have one question that may concern only the Assembly, to the soul perhaps a little wider. One month and a half ago, all MPs received one survey paper, it doesn't matter who and how, mostly from an organization where the threat ended that if we didn't respond to the poll that they would publish the name of every individual of MPs who didn't answer that. A few days ago, we were reunited with a single organization. It's just, I'm only talking about the papers that distribute the services of this assembly towards the MPs. At the end of that discussion, no matter what he may be or how well-intentioned he stands and this, and I ask you to listen. He says -- we feel obliged to warn you, all MPs, that in the event of the rejection of this appeal and the vote for the genocide law on GMOs and the accession of the EU and the WTO, we will be obliged to publicly present to the people of Serbia the name of every MP, his residence and address, born on every advertising board and bandits in the place of life so that citizens can ask them about the reasons for the sale of Serbia or sue for the death or sickening of their children as exclusive criticisms. This is hunting time. I take this as a pay phone. We had what we had for the president of the state, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, I wonder what the next step would be. My question is, does the services of this congregation, before they distribute to the MPs such writings, make an insight into the contents of that article? Is there a criterion to what is missing and what is not? And secondly, do security services, at least from the service security framework, react to this kind of thing? I'm not asking that out of personal fear or any of you out of fear, but this indicates a situation that can further escalate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6265	For the sake of the Assembly, all I have to do is answer two things that matter. Unfortunately, the ministry must not, nor by law, have the right to open any mail sent to any MP. All posts sent on behalf of the People's Messenger, even in your name, are not opened in the National Assembly, nor will we do so in the future, because this would not be in accordance with the law, and thus would cause a harsh violation of the right of privacy both you and any other MP of the people. All mail is, of course, being scanned and going through a certain kind of security check, that it does not contain a shipment that would be a security threat to you, but the contents of the shipment sent to you, therefore, a letter and what it says, the service of the National Assembly cannot be verified. So she comes to you, not openly, you read it, and you decide to do whatever you want with it. About the vote. The vote in the National Assembly is public and is held in direct television transmission and the same day the results of the vote on each vote are published on the National Assembly website where it will stand permanently. So that every citizen of Serbia can at any moment know which law you voted for, against, were abstention or did not vote. Not just you, but every one of us sitting in this National Assembly. I think it's part of the public work of parliament that nothing is disputed. If, of course, you consider any letter that comes to you in any way a threat to your work, I advise you to immediately inform the competent state authorities involved and they can take certain measures. The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6266	Thank you. I have two questions, and they're both from the area of social protection, and they're also directed towards the minister who is resolutely covering this area. Yesterday was the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, and today our Assembly Committee on Social Policy will devote its work to the issues and problems facing these people in life. Of course, I have to say that in the previous period, at least within the legislative framework, a lot has been done when it comes to this population, but unfortunately today they still face a number of problems, especially existential nature, and among them is certainly the most significant job-seeking. All employers who decide to employ a disabled person are opted for those who are mostly disabled in the first category, and those people who have a more complex form of disability are almost impossible to get to work. My question is addressed to the Ministry, or the Disabilities Sector, what are the effects of the application of the law on the employment of persons with disabilities, or how many persons with disabilities have been employed since the time the law came into force? How many employers did not respect their legal obligations and how much money was collected for punishment precisely because employers did not hire persons with disabilities? Of course, with one question, is that money directly directed at opening new jobs when asking these faces? The second part of the question or another package of questions was inspired by one terrible crime that took place two days ago in Kragujevac. Unfortunately, one young woman was brutally beaten, killed as a victim of domestic violence at the sight of her two underage children, dumped from the first floor of her family house, and then stabbed with a knife. Kragujevac, may my other colleagues forgive me, and I know that there have been a lot of work done in other cities in this area, but Kragujevac really falls into the ranks of cities that have done a lot in this area to prevent violence, in working with victims, but also in working with the perpetrators of this crime, but unfortunately it was not enough. Yesterday when he was brought into the courtroom, he waved and kissed the crowd, his children would end up with one of the foster families, and the traumas they experienced, I can't even think about. We obviously have to wonder which one's next. So my question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Police and Justice, what else can the state do to stop such a terrible crime? So, to prevent domestic violence, to strengthen prevention measures and to force competent institutions to apply timely measures that already exist so as not to have such fatal consequences. Unfortunately, events like this don't happen at once, a lot of things point to them before, but obviously, once again as a society, we've failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6267	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6268	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, the employees of Icarbus have been breaking the thresholds of various institutions across Serbia, around the city of Belgrade and here in the assembly, hoping to get a review of the Belgrade City Assembly's decision on the procurement of buses. It is a topic that has been public for the past month and we as a party in the Belgrade City Assembly have first initiated a debate on this matter and have initiated that decision to put off the strength and decision of the bus on loan from the European Bank and the BRD. Our initiative, the DSS initiative in the City Assembly, was to decide that of the 130.5m euros defined for the purchase of the bus, and it is said of a quantity of 400 buses at the city level in the next six years, how long the loan, of course with a grace period, we as a party asked the City Assembly to put it out of force, first of all, that the city is not a lonely or desert island that has no contact with Serbia's economy, with Serbia's state, for several reasons. The first is that in any European or world capital that has its bus manufacturer on the streets you don't see, the city will not exclusively get buses from foreign production. The city's decision, which called for a bus purchase without a procurement decision, and the tender was called during the summer, and only 8 November later, means when tenders were only open and when all foreign bidders were in Belgrade attending the opening of the bids, the city decided to make a decision on the purchase of a 400 bus. What we, as a party, must say at this time, is that Icarbus is a company that manufactures buses, quite high-quality buses for our conditions and European conditions, that the conditions of the competition are made so that Icarbus cannot be reported, but that only foreign companies, which have a larger scope, are opening up, because they operate in larger markets within the EU. So "Leyland" from England, Poland, "Volvo" came to us and other companies that have much larger markets and participate in the EU market. So, the city itself ruled out the largest bus manufacturer in Serbia, Icarbus, who, if he doesn't get a piece of the job, can put a key in the lock, because there is no other buyer. The GSP made the decision to be in charge, and the City to be a guarantee of that, which is contrary to the Public Debt Act, which is the second problem, and third, the bus procurement procedure was initiated without a decision by the City Assembly on the procurement of buses. So, in three cases, a procedure has been broken and something that is completely inadmissible in times of crisis has been done, when here we are through a budget debate, and from all the other debates we are trying to review every penny where it is going to go, turn, reroute, that the City is making a decision to purchase 400 buses, worth nearly 130m euros in order to recover or improve the economy of Poland, England, Sweden, or already some other countries, and that "Icarbus", our bus manufacturer, is left without a single euro of that job. The representatives of the DSS at the City Assembly insisted that this deal cannot be concluded without, in accordance with the Law on Public Debt, the consent of the Ministry of Finance, which should give consent to any borrowing, while the parliamentary majority in the City Assembly insisted that it be done without it, in the end, was found one Solomonian solution to make the decision, but that it enters into force conditionally if the Ministry of Finance, the Public Debt Administration, prepares and that an opinion on the conclusion of this contract. My question is to the Ministry of Finance, the Public Debt Administration, which is whether it has prepared an opinion on the conclusion of the loan agreement for financing the public procurement of the JKP bus in Belgrade of 130.5m euros, requested by the DSS parliamentary group on 13 November this year? The opinion, which will be passed by the ministry, as an agreement on this, depends on whether workers of Icarbus will be left without bread, without work, they and their families, and depends on whether we will allow the city's over-indebted budget to be charged with another 130m euros, thereby jeopardising the normal functioning of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6269	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6270	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days the citizens of Serbia, and especially Serbs, are reportedly shocked by the UN tribunal's acquittal, Croatian generals, Markac and Gotovina. Only naive and weakly informed of who was the initiator of the founding of The Hague tribunal could they expect an unleashing decision for these two Croatian generals. The honourable MPs, and more Serbian citizens, should know that the initiator of the establishment of The Hague tribunal has just been the infamous Theodor Meron, who just played a key role in liberating Markac and Gotovina the other day. I remind you that in 1993, Theodore Meron, and here is the key to the solution, I quote: "Let's establish an ad hoc international court and arrest all Serbian political champions and condemn them, because the Serbian people are behind them, that's the only way to get them off the political scene. ", finished quote. Is there any doubt why Markac and Gotovina were released? And as for "Storms" and crime, history has already given the court both Serbian and Croatian, I will quote a small quote, only the largest living philosopher in Croatia today, Dr. Zarko Pukovski, who said about "Storm", quote: "Storm" was ethnic cleansing, cleaning not only in the field of art, education, science, culture, but also in the field of toponomastics and onomastics. ", finished quote. Here's another NATO High Representative for the Pittsburgh List, New Gazette, in the spring of 1999, for crimes, I quote: "When we know that the crimes were committed by Serbs, we say -- they were Serbs. When we don't know who committed the crime, we say -- they were Serbs. When we know that it is definitely not committed by Serbs, we say – we do not know whose work it is. ", finished quote. The question is, what have we done since October 5th? We delivered everything to The Hague, and even some small paprika, cabbage and onions, and two brothers, if you remember, from the markets that the war had never seen, and our prosecutors with the Hague tribunal team drank glass of whiskey and deported our people to The Hague. Our trip to the EU was through The Hague. I was right, before I was a witness in the greatest trial of the century, Slobodan Milosevic, when I said that the Hague tribunal is the largest legal, political and moral freak, who has failed, so to speak. "International community." I ask Mr Rasim Ljajic, does he, together with the National Council, think about changing the strategy of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in favour of the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens? The second question is short, it is set these days at the entrance of the Pančeva Bridge, on the grain side, at the bus station GSP, Branko Momirova, i.e. on the administrative line between the northern Serbian province of Vojvodina, very strange things are happening. Namely, the GSP buses, 43, 95, 96, 101 still don't count, stop right on the administrative line and still don't drive until all the cards are examined. So, buses stand at Branka Momirova station, sometimes five minutes, if someone doesn't pay the ticket, then 10. What's going on? He's late on the lines across Brank's bridge and normally, there are cancellations. On behalf of 100,000 citizens of Borca, Sheep, Palilula, Stars and other citizens, I am asking Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to ask Mr. Gilas why the buses are standing as tickets are being examined. This is the first, second, could Mr Pajtic and Dragan Djilas be playing some kind of border between the northern Serbian province and the rest of Serbia, and when will this big mess be removed from that position? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6271	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6272	Dear President of the Assembly, I have two questions for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic and Minister of Justice Selakovic. So, the first question is, since the assistant minister of justice is convicted of a crime, it's judicial, and that, I quote, "The minister of justice, so what if he's convicted? ", my question is, is there any possibility now to pass an appropriate regulation, which would suggest that the Ministry of Justice, that other citizens who are convicted, have the right to work in state authorities and elsewhere, especially in the light of the amnesty that you have voted on? However, I think it is correct that we should take care of the people you freed from Serbian prisons. The second issue concerns the summit in Budva, and this is also a question for President Nikolic, we heard yesterday that President Nikolic cannot go to Budva and attend the Southeastern European Summit because it is a different atmosphere. So my question is, in Budva, is the atmospheric pressure lower or higher than Brussels? Is the Mediterranean climate and the sun shining, while in Brussels rain or sunbathing, when Prime Minister Dacic can see Thaci, and President Nikolic cannot sit down for a table on which Atifeta Jahjaga, so-called. President of Kosovo? So it's not clear if maybe this is the thing that's in the secret platform that no one's seen yet, and I doubt they'll see. In the end, I would like to say that MPs, in no case should represent a polygon to bring out the false. We have heard here two harsh lies brought forth by some of my predecessors. The first thing, "Icarbus" will always be a factory that will produce and from which Belgrade will buy all the buses that they can produce in the future, and it has worked in the past, therefore, the thing is completely irrelevant, as outlined by one of my predecessors. Another thing, no one can and will not establish any border in the state of Serbia. I think you've made a huge mistake in your political attacks on the mayor of Belgrade. You have abused the speaker and the role of the MP, bringing here insinuations that are very dangerous, tending, incorrect and are part of your political folklore. Take care when such a thing is said how dangerous it is and how far beyond your need to bring down the will of the citizens in a non-democratic way. So that's what we wanted to point out to you at this point as President of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6273	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Gordana Comic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that I am, for a joint review of the motions of the law at issue. 5th to 12th agenda, he called for the presence of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry and Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, the sittings also: Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Andrijana Stojkovic, Senior Manager at the Agency for Privatisation, Dragomir Matović, Senior Manager at the Agency for Privatisation, Ninoslav Kekić, Managing Director of the Group at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Ljiljana Petrović, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Branka Đević, Rukoslav Kekić, Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance of Finance, the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. I've been informed that the minister isn't here yet, and since it's my position not to work when the minister's gone, I'm setting a break by 11:30. [[After a break.]] Dear Members of the People, we continue our work. The next registered speaker is Mr. Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6275	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected Mrs Kalanovic, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today to discuss a set of economic laws. There are eight legislative proposals that have several clear goals. These are, above all, financial consolidation, financial discipline, with the intention of halving the budget deficit, which is, we have already discussed during the debate in the principle of the draft budget law for 2013, an extremely important, decisive and courageous move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, when it comes to the legal proposals that we are talking about today, they are actually a positive response from the government of the Republic of Serbia to the multiannual demands of the economy. The economy will certainly play an important role when it comes to realising the budget, because it needs to secure revenue. That is why, during the economic crisis, priority is exactly what is needed and the need to launch economic activity. In my presentation, keeping in mind the collegiation of colleagues from the Parliament club and the time we have at our disposal, I will only talk about a few legislative proposals. First of all, the proposal for a law on public enterprises. Department and depolitisation are in a period that has somehow always been a major topic behind us. She sounded particularly good during the election campaign and then had several goals – political marketing, an attempt to collect those cheap political points. But that's the way of interpreting this topic and during that time period, I would say, unfortunately, so far, I've been disabling a very good idea. I don't want to talk about what happened, because even if we did, we can't change today. In particular, when it comes to this subject, we can look at what's happening today, define some basics, define some foundations for the next time period. The past needs to be taught and lessons learned from what was not good. As a Parliament club, we will support this legislative proposal in principle, because by supporting this legislative proposal, we actually want to support the intention and goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal. This legislative proposal certainly represents one step forward towards a systematic approach to resolving an extremely important issue. On the other hand, it also represents the determination and determination of the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to departisation and depolitisation in public enterprises. It is a qualitative shift forward, in the sense that for the first time we are talking about such an important issue in this way, within the republican parliament, based on a concrete proposal, a legislative proposal that represents, I would say, a systemic approach. To be clear, no reform can be implemented immediately. It's a long-term process. It is important to show determination, commitment, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and to take the first step. Of course, it is important, as far as possible, to achieve the consensus and consensus of relevant political facts, because the topic that we are talking about today and we talked about during yesterday, I would say, should not reflect the current political moment. We need to create one basis, define one essential approach that should be applicable for the next period of time and concern all the next authorities in Serbia, the parliamentary majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say, when it comes to the SPS, we've never been brakers of the department and depolitanization, but we've always insisted on one. It is a concrete proposal, a fundamental concept and a very precise and clearly defined goal of what is being achieved. We've always been for one, I'd say, open and concrete conversation on the subject of the results of the work of those who took responsibility in public enterprises, because we're starting from one logical assumption. It is easy to look at and analyze the results of those who took responsibility. On the other hand, it is easy to change someone if they did a bad job and thus show a responsible relationship, first of all, towards the citizens of Serbia. The proposal is one step forward, in the sense that it will include a wider range of professional people when it comes to the work of public enterprises. We advocate and accept what the minister said in the opening statement, that public enterprises should not be exposures to political parties. We also advocate expertise, professionalism, transparency and efficiency. We also advocate to define clear criteria for the selection of directors, but we are not in a way to discriminate against professional, capable, competent people whose results are recognizable and visible, who have almost all political parties on the political scene of Serbia. This isn't about whether someone should be chosen or not. There should never be a sign of equality between such an important legal proposal and an individual. The point is that, in our opinion, it is finally time to value the results of work in Serbia. We want to support this legislative proposal, because it represents a step forward in this regard and we support both the intention and the objective of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, we have here a legislative proposal for amendments and additions that treat an extremely important issue in Serbia. It's about, I think, 171 companies, about 60,000 employees. I don't want to talk about our political position when it comes to the concept of privatisation in Serbia, it is widely known, but I want to say that such privatisations, as they were in the past time period, are the reason for the situation in which the state is today, above all, when it comes to unemployment. I think it is essential not only to engage in the initiation, promotion and implementation of privatisation, but also to control privatisation. If, in the next period of time, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resolute Ministry, competent investments do not have control, valid and measured control of privatisation, it seems that this concept of privatisation could, unfortunately, be devastating and would destroy the Serbian economy. In this context, it is important to lead an active policy, it is important not to wait for problems to come to us, to meet problems and to offer concrete solutions, of course, in line with existing legal frameworks, in agreement with representative union representatives and always keeping in mind the interests of workers. The adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia will in some ways allow for the further work of this extremely important institution in Serbia. We have two messages here. One message will be sent to legal entities, companies, when it comes to making easier use of those necessary loans. On the other hand, we have an important message that will be sent to investors, concerning the importance, roles and importance of this institution in Serbia. The draft law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, we believe in what Mr Dinkic said during yesterday that the adoption of this bill will introduce order, discipline, primarily the state towards the private sector, but will also introduce order when it comes to the private sector itself. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, this legislative proposal certainly gives the economy one chance and this is the active and positive move of the state. The economic crisis has made it impossible for a part of the economy to settle its obligations, and in this way liquidity in the economy will certainly be increased. It's already been said about that. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, it will certainly significantly improve electronic business, electronic trade via the Internet and make it impossible for business abroad to be free of those unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on tightened interest, therefore the unconstitutional method is essential, let me say, the reason why we're talking about this bill today. He will in perspective, we are convinced, solve those problems that are seen in practice. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, this was the case. A new legislative proposal is being prepared. This will be discussed in more detail by counterpart Petronijevic. What is our suggestion is to look at the proposals that Mr Petronijevic will make in front of the parliamentary club and put them in the new insurance law as much as possible. Otherwise, once again, in principle, the SPS Parliament Club supports legislative proposals, a set of economic laws that we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6276	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6277	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will not be able to boast that they will vote in favour of these proposals. Because the very unserious way that we are talking about them today is because eight very important laws have been laid down in a united debate that we need to talk about for about two minutes. Many of these laws were not in public debate. They have great consequences for the economic life and for the citizens of Serbia and it would be very serious if we were to talk a little differently about it. I will only talk about amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Development of Serbia. My colleagues will talk about other things later. It is very difficult to speak after all of those affairs, which have been opened in connection with Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, and the Serbian Development Fund itself, on this particular issue. Many Serbian citizens who have dealt with banks and businessmen who have applied to the Fund for Fund for Fund Development comment, it is a public secret, that much more than those criteria prescribed by both banks and the Fund apply criteria concerning friendly recommendations, family, godfather or party recommendations. The best example of what I'm talking about is the state auditor's report on the situation at the Serbian Development Fund. I'm talking about the 2010 report. Although the auditor did make a report on 200 pages, which is quite a material, you must admit, he supported the facts and numerous abuses, but did not find it appropriate to give his opinion on financial business and at all on the business of this Fund for the Development of Serbia. That, you have to admit, is strange and it seems that after 200 pages and so much material, something was missing from the auditor to finalize it. Looks like it's about courage. Let's look at a few facts in the report. The report states that the Fund does not control the intentional use of the funds it allocates on a variety of basis. Credits are not granted in accordance with the legal procedures and criteria prescribed by the Fund itself. Furthermore, it comments that the Fund itself has published data that claims that are subject to compliance, and unsatisfactory claims are 141 billion, so those subject to compliance are mostly partly covered by guarantees on the bank's assets or bonds, and only 18 such loans are covered. Eighteen loans have this guarantee and cover. Everyone else doesn't have a guarantee. The Fund approved dozens of loans to clients who did not receive a positive credit rating either from the professional service of the fund itself. Now you tell me, who, then, based on a negative assessment or if an evaluation was given, was giving credit to people? It's gonna be somebody. The auditor shall specify a number of examples of non-intentional credit spending. The best example is the loan received by the Galeb Group from Sapac in April 2010. Then she sought and received 280 million dinars in two years with a grace period until the end of 2010 and with a 3.5% interest, all according to the government's programme on equal regional development. In fact, the Galeb Group was headed by a consortium that bought the Variant Varys company and the assets of this loan were to be placed in the production of metal structures at the Welder. What's now difficult to follow. In a programme that the Galeb Group applied for this loan, it says it will fire 110 workers, which is, of course, the exact opposite of what loans are given for, what the purpose of the loan is. During 2011, the credit user was late with the payment. He already owed 663,000 euros at the time. The fund didn't activate the bonds, but "Galeb" sought the opportunity to reprogram his debts. The Fund approved it, which is not an unusual practice. The privatisation agency only three months after the purchase and after receiving the loan broke a contract with a consortium run by the "Galeb Group" and became the owner of the "Welder" company in Vranje. The strangest thing is that it's been decided that the loan taken by one user, so the Galeb Group and the consortium, should return the Welder, because it's supposed to be 280 million dinars invested in the Welder. It's a fact that needs to be checked. There are many such examples in this report. I took one that seemed good to me for what I wanted to talk about. I don't think it's a problem to say, and no one should be surprised that the Development Fund ended up with a loss of 3.8 billion dinars last year. If he's done business like this, that loss isn't that big. This story was supposed to serve as an introduction to what you proposed in this law, which is that in article 6, you increased the authority of the board of directors. In the last term and in the past, the Development Fund had a board that approved a lot of things, and it also had a board of directors that seemed less members than you have recommended here, even though you said you would reduce the boards of directors. Never mind. What I'm saying is that Serbia that is on the verge of a debt crisis and debt slavery with a terrible debt of 60% of national income and with 16 billion dinars is in a very difficult state. I don't think you should increase the Fund's jurisdiction to give them the right and to be in charge of the country and abroad. It doesn't make sense to anyone, without the supervision of this assembly, to give such a right. I want to say one more fact. You increase the number of board members from nine to 11, but it doesn't matter, yet you don't find a place for a representative representing environmental protection, although Serbian strategic documents say environmental protection is the third pillar of development. You're putting the Minister of Energy, in this case it's the same man, even if you mean that environmental protection has its own representative on this board. These are just some things we can't vote for. My colleagues will talk about many more things. I don't think this unserious way of arguing is right. This is not referred to you, Madam Minister, but to the representatives of the Assembly, the President of the Assembly. It would be much more serious if we here were to talk openly about laws that represent the essence of the life of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6278	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try not to answer every question, but the previous discussion of the MPs has initiated that I have to answer and say something that deeply disagrees with what you were talking about. Making a parallel with Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank and the Development Fund, I don't think there's a point, nor is it possible right now. The Development Bank and Agrobank are banks. The core of the establishment of the Development Fund is the realisation of programmes aimed at supporting businesses, but also at other jobs, one of which is a commission to support enterprises in restructuring, as well as commissions of businesses that are related to support companies in Kosovo and Metohija and some other business done through one state fund. That is why your question – why more members are foreseen in the Supervisory Board than in public enterprises are related to the various affairs which, in the name of the Government and on behalf of the Government, work in the territory of all Serbia, of course in business with economic operators through the Development Fund, which are in the interest of different ministries. Simply, I want to underline once again – the fees for working on the Management Board of the Development Fund do not exist, nor have they ever existed. The members of the Management Board are mostly ministers who contact the economy through the Development Fund and support the development of economic operators. On the other hand, the withdrawal from the context that the Development Fund has been giving loans which are non-paymentable and that the various abuses recorded in the DRI report are also not appropriate. I would refer you to a response report, a report by the DRI, which was made in detail by each item that the DRI found as procedural remarks in the work of the Development Fund. I've personally come to know a very detailed report on the DRI report, and I can tell you that I'm more than satisfied, and I think you will be, because you can see exactly what the reasons for the DRI as a failure are. I personally think that even in contact with the DRI, you can see whether it's abuse or whether they're satisfied with the report given to them by the Development Fund. It's not a lack of courage, it's simply a matter of facts before which the DRI is satisfied with what its original objections were. When it comes to extracting individual credit users, as someone who has been participating in the Management Board of the Development Fund for a long time, I can tell you that the Development Fund is founded for not being a commercial bank, not to be a business bank that has loans to those who are most successful, but occasionally has loans to those who revitalise the "Sik Kopalnik" in Kursumlia, from whom a border municipality lives and who employs the largest number of people who have been sent home, and richly and large numbers of co-operatives. The Development Fund has revived the plant at Radovnica in Trgovište. The Development Fund has defined the loan "Condive" in Bujanovac and we cannot look at the loans that are assigned through the Development Fund in the same way as the loans that are determined from the business bank and the loans it gives to the most successful. I agree with you that credits should not be placed at risk greater than permitted and without adequate guarantees. In most cases, at the Development Fund, these are first-row mortgages. These are very often guarantees. Some of these guarantees were issued, unfortunately, by Agrobank. At this point, the Development Fund is making a detailed analysis of those companies that have coverage through the avalanche bonds "Agrobank". On the next board of directors, we will consider exactly what these companies are and at what risk is the return of these loans at this time. Please, I don't want the public and the Assembly to get the wrong picture that it's some wicked institution, because we know very well in contact with the businessmen who are the role of the Development Fund and what the Development Fund has done in support of those who needed the help most. It's mostly small and medium-sized enterprises. It is mainly about those companies that operate in undeveloped areas and it is mostly about loans that have absolutely all the guarantees prescribed by law that they will be returned neatly. I can inform you that there are a large number of partners in the Fund of Business Entities, who have submitted a request for a reprogramme to the Development Fund, which cannot repay these loans at the moment. One of the initiators of the law, which the SPS MP also spoke of, to increase the liquidity of the economy at the moment, to pass tax amnesty laws, to reduce payment deadlines, is exactly the Development Fund that wants to make it possible for businesses to increase liquidity, among other things, and to regularly service liabilities to the institution from which they were credited.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6280	The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic, by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6281	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word. Madam Minister, when you answer the question I'm going to ask you, the public will know about the company you're praising so much of the Fund. What was your function in the Serbian Development Fund, and what is it today? I didn't mention any context of Agrobank, or anything, I gave it as just one frame of time in which things happen. What I've been making an adjudication is the State Auditor's report. The official state auditor filed a report on all this. I wasn't getting things out of context, I was reading the report. What I've listed is exactly the tax-related things that are written in the report. Second, I didn't invent the loss of that fund. That best speaks of how he worked and how much he placed the funds safely. The report says the fund's loss was 3.8 billion dinars. You want him to deny it? All right, here you go. Furthermore, I have not commented on the number of members and their belongings, I only commented that you increase the number, although you are talking about reduction and all that. The board members were ministers before, and still ministers. Although members were ministers, what was happening was what was happening, according to the auditor. It also happened that we have a loss. Nothing in particular will change that two-thirds of the same members were in the last term members of the Fund and are now the same people members of the Fund. After all, you're a representative of both the past government and the current government in the Fund. It's just that nothing in particular is going to happen, and that's what I was saying. If you and I are satisfied with the auditor's report, that's less important, Madam Minister. That's the least of it. That's what you and I can talk about somewhere else. Are Serbian citizens and is Serbia's economy satisfied with the auditor's report on how funds were spent? I'm telling you it's not, I'm saying it's not. They comment that funds have been given in such a way as to be commented by the auditor. That's what we can talk about. It's on paper, ma'am. Someone signed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6282	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6283	Since you called me directly in a few things, I will answer you very precisely. Yes, I've been involved in the work of the previous two governments. I was a member of the Management Board at one point, but in the most part of the term of office of the two governments, I was someone who evaluated the submitted requests for credit approval. That authority is called the Application Assessment Commission for the Fund. So, someone who along with the people of the Fund determines whether the company has the criteria necessary to obtain the loan. Since the formation of this government, I am the interim chairman of the Management Board, because the Fund Act defines the Management Board and is on the agenda right now. But life can't wait, as we know it, and we can't stop the Fund's work right now because we haven't passed the law in the Assembly, and the previous government has lost its mandate by forming a new July 27th. So, from July 27th to today, the government has decided in its conclusion who will represent members of the Fund's Management Board until the law is passed. I'm the president of this body for the first time. I'm the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund. Also, the truth works I want to say in simple words how the DRI works. Based on DRI's insight into the work of an institution, he makes his report through remarks and points first to the institution. The institution explains on the basis of the report why these remarks occurred, it is called a "responsible report". Based on the DRI's response report, it submits a criminal or criminal complaint against the person who made the mistakes or is satisfied with the response report. I'm telling you, you read the first DRI report. You haven't read the explanation, the response report. As you can see, there's no application against the Director of the Development Fund, no one who worked there, which means there's no abuse, and that's why it's not appropriate to make a parallel with the Agrobank that you did at the beginning. On the other hand, I want to tell you that the Fund for Development's loans are directed towards economic operators. Citizens are indirectly related to credit approval, but they are not mostly credit users, except when it comes to "start ap" loans. In this case, citizens are mostly employed, and otherwise credit users are economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6284	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6285	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Madam Minister, all you've said is actually the answer to what I wanted to hear, not for myself, but for the citizens of Serbia, you've said enough. By the way, I expected you to talk a little bit more about the Fund, you're the chairman of the Board of Directors, that would be fine to hear. The auditor said everything himself in his report and I was just quoting what he said. On the other hand, it is citizens who are both owners and employees and members of companies, citizens who give money, they are taxpayers and they have to control everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6286	The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6287	Dear President, Ms. Minister, dear colleague, we heard our dear colleagues say the other day by our dear colleague - Socrates died, Athens did not die. Sitting and listening to discussions in our home, I can draw the conclusion in the congregation that Athens is dying, and Socrates has come to life. A lot of philosophizing, without concrete proposals, and it's about simple things, it's about what Mrs. Minister said -- life can't wait. So it's about how to install and build institutions, institutions that will pull Serbia forward and put it among the most developed countries. So, when it comes to the adoption of laws on the write-off of tight interest rates to small, medium-sized enterprises, other companies, I welcome that. I'm sorry that she didn't even do the previous government and that it wasn't brought into the institutions, because it exists everywhere in every country. What do we have to do with it if we let the companies that have five employees, ten employees, or say we start with the cabbies, start with the hairdressers, start with the cobblers, start with the tailors, what do we have from him if he goes bankrupt because he didn't pay taxes and because he has a tight interest that has accumulated, and not to say that in many companies, these very tight interest rates are the result of not actually paying from those who hired them for their work. I'd ask the Ministry and the Government to be even braver, write off their tight interest, write off their regular interest, write off their debt for the next five years so they can get on their feet and hire other members, if not someone else, then members of their family so that at least they can exist in another way. When it comes to a fine of 20,000 dinars because companies will not pay in time and will not fulfil the obligation of their debt in time to their suppliers, I believe it should be changed. No matter what I vote for this law, it should be heard by the ministry, what 20,000 dinars are, whether those 20,000 fines apply to the company that makes two billion euros a year and the one that makes 20,000 euros a year. That has to be defined. Where there is stimulation, there must be one certain non-detenstimulation, but one discipline that will appear to be possible in the only way, and that is criminal measures. When we talk about bankruptcy, about bankruptcy companies, penalties are provided for those who will cause intentional bankruptcy, i.e. Bankrupt. Please, Madam Minister, pay attention to what I say next. The best occupation in Serbia today is the bankruptcy manager. There is no better interest, because what responsibility today has a bankruptcy manager who holds certain companies and institutions after 12, 15 years is a bankruptcy procedure and to this day there is no liquidation. What's that? Imagine, I can also list some companies in particular, but I wouldn't want it to be prejudged, if it were some companies where I was co-owner. You have, then, the companies in which you have, and I'm going to give you an example of Astrobank, you have 130m euros, there's no claim from the trustee. They're all calm, everything's fine, there's about 40 people working there. They travel everywhere, seminars are visited, and I want to say that I accept that criminal measures are applied and that they are tightened for those who want to introduce "knowledge" I said in Russian, who want to introduce criminal measures i.e. to introduce bankruptcy into companies with the intention of having some profit tomorrow, i.e. To avoid paying their obligations to the state and to the creditors. However, it must be known that there must be criminal measures for bankruptcy managers. There's got to be a deadline for how long this company can be in bankruptcy. As for the Law on Public Enterprises, I welcome that it should be professional management. I welcome that they, i.e. The supervisory board that program or to request a business plan from management, but I'm telling you honestly, and I'm talking to my opposition colleagues, don't make any drama that you're in power, you'd be running your members the same way you've been doing all these years. Surely you won't receive anyone from our group or from the ruling coalition. However, there is one other thing that we all need to worry about that concerns and interests the citizens of Serbia, which is the following – who will be a capable manager, who is this capable manager, and you know it well who you are listening to and who you are following this session, who is this man who will accept to work for a thousand euros and that he has a huge responsibility in a public company. It doesn't exist and we won't find it in any party. God forbid we find him, if we can as the ruling coalition in our parties, and I believe among you. The able-bodied people already have their own businesses or better to say the extremely capable managers have their own businesses, have their own companies, they work, they earn. So, I'm up for it, if we want to have able people at the head of public enterprises, there's no limit and there's no limit to their salaries, for their receipts, let him pay 50,000 euros a month, don't get me wrong, if he can take out our city, Belgrade, transport company or any public enterprise from that situation he's in. If he can simply allow Serbian citizens to no longer put their hands into the budget and not cover their losses. I see here in this law that the Director-General and the Supervisory Board are scheduled to take care of their losses. In the beginning, we give amnesty to people who will run public enterprises. I'm against it. Let us tell them, on the basis of the business plan, you will have the salary of 50,000 euros, however absurd it sounds for the citizens of Serbia, because in Serbia people may not have a single euro of income per month. So, when we talk about the responsibility of members of the Supervisory Board, I would ask you, Madam Minister, to talk to your colleagues in the ministry and the government to determine exactly and to know what the rewards are, what are sanctions. There can be no sanctions if you bring the company to a loss of 100m euros, 5m euros, and it is a sanction that you will simply fire it and ask it to resign. Listen, it's not a sanction. I have to say, it's a legalized way of dragging your hand into the pockets of the Serbian state's taxpayers. I'm just about to clear it up, so you know who's hair, who's wearing water. Otherwise, I support and can say this – that these laws that are proposed in relation to the previous ones are progressive. I would ask the opposition to always, as much as they can, support what is really progressive and what will benefit the citizens of Serbia. I understand that here on a public broadcast we all try to affirm ourselves as a person, our ideas, our suggestions, and to give citizens as close as we can to the essence of what is being brought and what we vote for, so that we are not one voting machine and we work normally, probably on the affirmation of our parties, etc. Anyway, it's not too late to do a lot of things, and I'd ask you to be braver in terms of making a bill. Don't be afraid, no one will resent you if you take companies that have a perspective and move into restructuring, please write off their debts, if it's 1,000 workers, 500 workers. Normally, once again, I would go back to what we've been talking about for a long time, even all the companies in Serbia, please prevent discrimination against the private sector, even it completely with social enterprises, state-owned enterprises, public enterprises. It's not fair, it's not correct, it's not at anyone's will, it's against God's will, it's also against the people, covering the constant losses of public enterprises, and putting a noose around the neck of small and medium-sized private enterprises. I thank my colleagues, my colleagues, your Madam Minister and the President for giving me his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6288	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6289	Mr. President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the arguments he has made as an authorised debater, my colleague Veseinovic, but I also want to say, globally on this package, there is a good will, but unfortunately, about a very important topic, and that is primarily indifference in our economy. We are much more concerned with the consequences, not the causes, and much more about the government here, and in particular this ministry, acts as a fireman, to the soul, a little bit and as a fireman – a pyromaniac, because a large part of these problems have arisen in the domain of the minister, the previous and present in the domain of the economy, and much less as the architects of the financial system, which are necessary in our country, at this point, now that we are entering the fifth year of this great crisis. First, a few words individually about these laws, and then a few suggestions, how to take this package one step further and deal with the causes and architecture in the longer term. As for the Law on terms of settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, we cannot vote for this law in this form. We've proposed a few amendments, and if they're accepted, we'd be happy to vote for one correct approach, which is that the state doesn't pay itself, launch new projects, until it settles its commitments to the economy and that's fine. I'm afraid that as far as paying the state to the public sector, as defined in the economic law, we enter into one account without the knowledge of the innkeepers. The minister said during the debate, that it is not known how much public enterprises owe, and it is not known that a large number of state agencies have entered into some contractual obligations, which will have to be paid for, and that the funds provided for it, essentially and despite certain government efforts, are not provided. But what worries the most is the fact that it's trying to enter lex specialis, who knows which way to what regulates one of the most qualitative system laws we have in our country, which is the Law on bond relations. We heard the minister, he suggested that the committee propose an amendment, we welcome it. It is clear that, contrary to what it says in the explanation, there is no directive in the EU that the state regulates bonding relations between private entities and gives them the maximum number of days to pay. We heard the suggestion, we'll support that proposal if they don't go with it and those additional conditions, so that, as far as we've heard, the law still has teeth. However, it will be imposed on private commercial relations, if the payment deadline is greater than 60 days, to provide either a first-rate guarantee or to issue bonds. Today, private entities can do that. Nothing prevents private subjects from doing so. It's clear that we've had a problem for a long time now that the debtors are stronger than the trustees. At this point, this liquidity, the risk is high, that if the law does not allow to be paid for more than 60 days, independent of what sector the sector is working on and in the state of the specific companies being contracted, there is, in fact, a high risk of being pushed into bankruptcy by a number of enterprises that could otherwise survive. The amendment must read, just as the directive provides, that the law determines one thing, but that in the case of a contract between private persons, they can agree differently. Nothing will be achieved, and I want to tell you, honourable MPs, unless the government has been informed that the economy has already been prepared to comply with the provisions of this law, contracts are being prepared for 60 days, which will be renewed by automation. Citizens need to know that these provisions will absolutely change nothing. The last thing about this law is the absurd criminal policy that was discussed here. Such a criminal policy, which does not recognise the size of the debt and which can undermine and kill a valid, small enterprise, and essentially does not constitute any penalty for any major transactions, so that this criminal policy must also be changed. In the Law on terms of write-offs of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, we are essentially ready to support that law, if our amendment is passed, which is that those who have done business in such a way that they can settle their obligations to the state, have some of it. This is how it turns out that it doesn't pay off, and we have proposed an amendment, according to which we suggest that regular payments have a faster VAT refund, at least in this way give incentives to others, to settle their obligations in time. I remind you, there's not enough difference between tax delays here, that's all. properly reported tax liabilities and tax evasion, that's not right. There's this difference between what's being talked about, between what's called amnesty, which in a tax sense means that it's returning to the legal framework what's been tried to cover up and something that's essentially a reflection of the indifference of our system. We will uphold the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, because it brings us out again and finally from the Stone Age in that domain. We regret that the National Bank of Serbia, since we have been informed of the way it discussed it, has suspended one number of additional steps, which would facilitate business, primarily our construction operations abroad, and that is a pity, because they, and they all know it, leave money outside and do not pay in ways that they could pay taxes to us. The Democratic Party is not at the point of view, that there is a need to fully liberalise the capital part of our current payments and I want to inform our MPs, that even the IMF, which has been at that extreme position for a long time, that the part of our current payments should be liberalised, but has changed the doctrine, because certain controls, from their point of view, have been shown to be temporary and targeted in place to avoid the impact of international speculation. You will not have in a democratic party a party that will demand in this area of liberalisation the exact opposite. But more could be done we will support the law going in a good direction, we will also support the law of tight interest, because it essentially implements what the Constitutional Court has ordered and provides equality between the state and citizens, as well as the laws amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, although I am not sure that the Government is fully aware of what it means, especially the effect on unemployment that will come with this and the law amending the law on insurance, I do not know which time the application of this law is delayed. It might not be bad for the government to consider bringing the finance ministry in and proposing a law that will regulate the capital issue for a longer period, because six or seven years it will not pass. We will not support the Law on Public Enterprises, because there are many reasons, and I will not repeat them all, I urge the government to amend them as soon as possible, if our protests are not enough for the EU as possible. It is not right that Article 2 provides that public undertakings in the domain of information may be possible or there should be a transitional provision in accordance with the strategy that this assembly has built and adopted for the exit of the state from the media sector. What is most problematic, and what is infuriating in the beginning is those pre-election paroles of those who have said that there will be a department, at the cost of their leaving the government, is that Article 22 introduces the possibility that party officials become directors of the company, provided that they provide some rest and function that our legal system does not fully recognise. We have a situation with Mrs. Governor who allegedly froze the post of vice president of the party in power and we know very well that this sends a very clear signal, and it's now a sociological link, a question that's been profiled here, you go into the party, you fight, and then we're supposed to freeze it, the impact will be there, it's not by any chance what happened, it's obvious that this government has no consensus on this, and it wouldn't be good if this minister and this party were already after 120 days trying to pull themselves out that they wanted and others didn't. We've seen that movie a few times already. That member is insulting the whole thesis. We see very well in which direction we're going and whether the party personnel will and we had for both the Post Office and the Srbiagas very eclectic examples of what's going on here. We will not support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia for the simple reason, which is that our party has proposed and we have already drawn up a draft law that we as a parliamentary group will propose to this assembly on the Serbian Development Bank. Why? It is necessary for the state to have its tools in its hands to support development, and not in a way such as that in the Development Fund, that before the early elections in Bor, suddenly the entrepreneurship there, and the Fund at a session of committees, if I remember correctly, some dozen projects for Bor. Too often, this fund was used as a political weapon, not to say that only one party was guilty, but it seemed to me that we had all agreed and received international support for Serbia to move on and to ensure that the activities of the fund were transferred and transferred to the Development Bank of Serbia where this activity would be much more transparent and under much better conditions. Not to be suddenly "The Commercial Bank", because it is unnecessary for it to exist, but to have its own law and mode of operation that will be much closer to the professional management that is allegedly being appealed to in the Law on Public Enterprises. Now I would conclude about what we think is the greatest lack of this package, which is that it deals with the consequences, not the causes. That here the government and the ministry appear as a necessary firefighter, sometimes a pyromaniac, and not enough as an architect, a financial system of Serbia that could withstand these additional blows of crisis. What's being offered here? And in the budget? The state is offered to provide certain support to the economy, to write down some taxes, to reprogramme some tax debt, to compensate the debt that the state, local self-government, towards some companies that have done some capital projects with 300m euros under now unknown circumstances. It is also offered to compensate for a certain debt formed in the health system. All that any government wants or doesn't want would have to do in one way or another and offer some solutions. That's not controversial. The problem is that every businessman will tell you, and especially those who have an operational positive business, whether they are big or small, is the fact that for years our economic development has been largely founded on short-term foreign currency loans. That's the problem. Hence the anxiety around the course and from where the inability to have long-term dinar savings will be able to finance long-term capital investments, whether in the case of the state or in the case of our economy. This is all at the moment and we talked about it as DS when we were dealing with some other laws, because of the international regulatory base of three, foreign banks have withdrawn from Eastern Europe, respected MPs, 70 billion euros over the past 12 months. Serbia has lost 7% of its foreign bank deposits and this is a topic for the government, a topic for international discussions. To ensure that both commercial banks which are not enemies, but which here primarily look at their own interest and which show on many concrete examples that they are not interested in the rest of their obligations, and even less for one more serious reprogramme, are waiting for what is unfortunately inevitable to happen. To bankrupt some of our leading companies. It's the only thing that'll hurt them far less than our citizens. A tiger in Piroth, my Pyrocans, the Commercial Bank, which has only about 700-800 thousand euros in claims from the company, is the first to block that company, which employs 2,000 people, who otherwise have no place to work in that small town. Why? Because it was 10 days late on the last coupon of some bond. I want to tell you that it's pulled a major blockade and it's all done by automation. It is very important that the government proposes a new solution. Maybe it'll be the law, and we in the DS believe we'll make it pretty quick, give you a few suggestions. These elements you've proposed should be a hook, an incentive for banks to do their part of the job, to reprogram at least five years, this tax debt for two to three years is not enough, in a way that our companies that can, in an operational sense, do positive business, get enough financial space to pay suppliers, that they can pay employees first of all and function. So there won't be a battle every day what and how will that war be paid for the bank or this guarantee. With that, as you can see, the DS is also going to be one constructive opposition. We will vote for all that is in the interest of our citizens, but we will be a fierce opposition to those things that are not in the interest of our economy and our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6290	Mrs. Kalanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6291	I thank you for the constructive discussion of MP Djelic. It's just, as his colleague from the previous government, I'm not going to answer him from there, because I think he knows what I'm going to say, but I'm going to answer to the public for the MPs for those who are watching us today. First, you started and ended up with the Minister of Finance and Business at this point being a fireman rather than an architect. Yeah, big inherited problems. The consequences of the operation are enormous and we need to address certain consequences both towards the pathways and towards the builders and pharmacists and towards the major problems we inherited. Whether this minister is an architect's finance, we'll estimate for a certain time, but obviously we haven't inherited any envious architecture from a previous period that we might be able to upgrade, so right now we're making appropriate skeletons. I hope I answered the way you made comparisons with this set of laws and consequences and architecture. I'd also like to say something about your comments on the law. First of all, the Law on the limitation of payment deadlines in commercial transactions, as we popularly call it the Law on the limitation of payment deadlines. I would like to remind you that in the previous government on two occasions they launched an initiative to introduce a limitation of payment deadlines, first of all by the state. When I was talking about the state, I was talking about central government, local authorities, public enterprises and funds. The answer was, we can't, we can't bring in such a regulation because we don't have enough money in the budget. There is a Law on the limitation of payment deadlines in commercial transactions, in the previous government as an initiative, so we did not have the courage to pass such a law at that time, because we did not have the opportunity to implement it. The previous government did not seem to have responded to two instructions. Two members of the government at the time to pass one of these laws. I think the consequences today would be much less for the economy and the employees of the economic operators. Let me remind you, you also know, this law is one of the hard laws of application. EU members have worked for 10 years, each in their country to pass a law on the limitation of payment deadlines. It took ten years for organised systems in the EU to bring restrictions on payment deadlines. Today, it is a European directive, you have noticed and it is true that today it is a European directive used by all European countries with different times adapted to domestic legislation. Slovenia, Croatia, Germany is one of the countries that today have a limit within payment deadlines. Why did we say we accept the amendment that the payment deadline will be extended over 60 days, but only with a rolled menu or a guarantee of a business bank? Because the other system in our country doesn't work, which works in other countries. It's the judiciary. Because it would be easy to get an economic operator with whom you signed a contract, in court if you could get a conviction in 15 days. Unfortunately, with us business subjects most often drop the lawsuit because they can't go three, four years in court waiting rooms, and eventually, what they've sued their partner for not paying off in time. Of course, it is quite clear that this law requires, I can also tell you a lot of courage, discipline and a lot of order, in the state and in local self-government, between trade chains and among economic operators. In the previous government, my four advisors were four major businessmen. Each one of them held many meetings with the businessmen, and on this very subject he felt that the liquidity of the economy could be raised. It's to limit the payment deadline and make the funds go faster and faster. What I'm still trying to say about the previous discussion is that it's clear that amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act is also a bold move. It's not architecture. That's the consequences. Each year, 750m euros from the budget go to subsidies to restructure companies. Over 50,000 people work in that company. Let's remember what it looked like in the flag in Kragujevac. We kept one system through the continuous release of subsidies to the employees in Kragujevac, and then with one bold move we decided to transform the flag into "Fiat cars of Serbia". At this point, we need to support the initiative, to speed up the processes and those auditors who, after 10 years, still have projects related to the restructuring and management processes that we have little control over in restructure companies at the moment, because the state has no capacity to take care of business over 170 businesses at the same time. It is quite clear that we will have to put an end to enterprises that are neither in heaven nor on earth, which are not subject to nor to the rules of normal operating conditions under which business is done. When it comes to public enterprises, I would also like to remind you, Mr. Djelic, that a question of the work of public enterprises has been raised in the past government. You remember who started them and you remember that from the Ministry of Finance and the sector that deals with public enterprises, we have received a comprehensive report that public enterprises, however, 16 of them, year by year, are recording poorer balances, less business results, poorer investment, that only increases the number of employees. Because public enterprises have one very important place in Serbia's economic system, because they occupy a significant share of capital, in revenue, in the number of employees, we have to professionalise the work of reported enterprises. Is this law over? No, but it is a significant shift because after three months we will not have a certain loss of 100m euros, as the question arises – what will happen when the public company has a loss of 100m euros? Of course, it will not happen because the government supervisory board has to submit three months of reports, and in the end it will not be allowed by an employee sitting in the public enterprise, that the loss is constantly growing and that professional management remains. Nor will an independent expert who has no control over the parties give reports that are fixed and faked. As for freezing, you remember Mr. Djelic that you did different jobs in the previous period. You've frozen some of them so you can take over some of the others. So then you went back to some of those jobs. It's perfectly natural that the director of public enterprises won't come to the basics, or the people coming out of the college bench. They don't have the capacity to operate large systems. People who have done things seriously in the past will come and even have been prominent members of political parties. At a time when they take on a professional duty and when all their time must be fulfilled by the management of a public enterprise and by doing the same, they must freeze their functions and put it into one neutral point in the period during which they deal. That's exactly why that provision was given.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6292	The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Djelic, by the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6293	I think you should talk to Mr. Dinkic, because he disagrees with what you just said. You need to listen to what he said in that seat in that bench. He said that your party, because it has grown from movement to party, will not propose to anyone who is a party official because he is against it. So obviously we have no agreement not only in this coalition, but within your party. What's more important to our citizens, you just said, and that's an inheritance. It's your legacy. Public enterprises, Mrs Kalanovic, you were one of the two negotiators for the previous coalition agreement and you struggled to have written in that government and then translated into the Law on Government and to be responsible for public enterprises in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. It's your responsibility. After that, we had a situation to restructure. Who was responsible for restructuring the company? Minister of Economy. Who's been in charge of health care for 10 years? Your party. Who was in charge of funding local self-government, who introduced the previous government under the risk of falling and ultimately asked to pass a law whose consequences we are now dealing with, and in the 2013 budget, it is said that if it is seen that they continue to increase their salaries and employ officials, they will be suspended magically by transfers from the central budget. That's what you imposed. So I think the party that has the least to deal with is you. When we talk about economics and finance, you had what was called the so-called economy. Live money and opportunities to redistribute one thing into another. Finally, you haven't answered any of my questions. Freeze, of course it doesn't work. It doesn't exist. I've never frozen anything, either to resign or to leave. If you're honest with the departmentalization of public enterprises, then you shouldn't have gone in, breaking your key pre-election promise, with a law like this, where it's supposed to be frozen, actually maintains the party structure in which you participated from the airport, all the way to the Old Mountain and ski resort. What I'm saying is I haven't heard a single answer to my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6294	Mrs. Kalanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6295	You didn't hear because you didn't want to hear it. I do not dispute that in the previous government as one of the negotiators, I sat in the formation of the government. I wasn't sitting with myself, I wasn't the one who dictated the conditions that the government would be formed, unfortunately, I wasn't even able to. But of course the Ministry of Economy never took care of public enterprises because it's a sector in the finance ministry, right, Mr. Djindjic? The sector that deals with public enterprises has always sat in the finance ministry. And today it was, and so it was in the previous government. As far as the Law on Public Enterprises is concerned, yes, my party has come out with the need to depolitise and departementise in the management of public enterprises, precisely because it is aware that losses in public enterprises that are being accumulated eat substance in Serbia's economy and that they have to be professionalised to make public enterprises a business operator. Public enterprises are enterprises and they cannot be party companies, but must be public, with management. As you know, we had neither prominent party members nor party members in most companies whose supervision, or the proposal for directors, was proposed as a party. Is that exactly how it was with you? But I don't want to talk to you about the period behind us. I'm saying a consensus has been reached at this point in government. I'm a member of the government. A consensus has been reached in the government to freeze the function and to compete with frozen functions. I'm still telling you that no member of the URS, who has a party function, will compete. Not that it won't be set up, it won't apply to be the director of a public enterprise. That's what I'm telling you today and you can check it out in the period ahead of us. Remind me of what I was talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6296	Excuse me, Mr. Guric, on what grounds are you calling? (Bojan Djuric, from the place: Replica. ) But you're not mentioned either you're not your client. You have no basis for replication. The word is Mr. Ilic, the replica, and then you, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6297	I have to look back on the first part of Mr. Djelic's discussion, which I think is completely constructive and in place. I think it's something like this Parliament, and I welcome it, with a couple of poison arrows in that part of the area where they usually go, so I don't understand how we're just dealing with the DS. I guess it's the other way around, they keep on dealing with us, and they don't do it themselves, which I recommend, because the picture itself in this House about the state of the party speaks more than any word. I don't know where you got the courage to talk about some things here when you know what you left in Serbia. Perhaps it is God's justice that this condition you left in Serbia has moved into your party. It would be good and I think it's good for all the citizens to see what's really going on here. Permanently replacing thesis, permanent plantings, tours. Should I mention how funds were distributed at the Ministry of Agriculture? Here's a full paper. They're working on it, investigating bodies, all receiving subsidies, which are mechanisms. You've been covering the party state. You've demonstrated the system we're now trying to demonstrate. We'll see how successful we'll be. In that sense, I ask you to stay where you were in the first part of the discussion, on one constructiveity. I think you've discussed it well, that you've made good remarks, but this other part is really not in line with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6298	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6299	He can't run away from his biography or his history. The citizens of Serbia know everything well, so I think it is essential to explain that someone has nothing to do with health care if he has been running it for 10 years and has nothing to do with the economy and that he led it at the moment when the unemployment rate has gone from 13% to 26%, and there is nothing to say that it will reduce and that it is said that it is something that has been inherited. I think it's sterile and it doesn't serve anyone. What's more important is what's proposed and what we're going to do today. Mrs. Kalanovic, I didn't hear you at all ask that one important segment of our economy, which is banks, contribute their contribution to the liquidity of our system, not to call it out, but to ensure that in a systematic sense they contribute to where the state is obviously ready to give their own. Why the state to solve the problem of banks, especially at the moment when the agreement that the previous government reached with other countries through so-called. The Vienna Initiative, to maintain the exposure of banking institutions in our country? What do we need from the parties if they use our savings all the time and if any guarantee they issue for our companies is fully dependent on our daughter's balance sheet, and they don't rely at all on the level of the mother's balance sheet? These are the key reasons why we should have party banks. That's the discussion you have to have. I can tell you that these parties too are wondering why this discussion didn't begin. As long as they're alone, they normally defend the interests of their shareholders, but they know that this liquidity crisis gradually, but they'll move towards them pretty quickly. More than 25% and their claims are non-refundable on average in our banking system. If a different approach is not made, some five to seven-year-old reprogramme that will ensure that our economy makes these laws that we have today, I'm afraid they'll be inoperable and they won't be able to solve the problem, but in a year we'll be at this starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6300	The word is made by Minister Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6301	Of course we don't want to run away from our biographies either. Especially I don't want to run away from my biography, but if we share responsibility, we share the results. Yes, I know that in 2009, the first anti-crisis package also meant Vienna's initiative and exposure to foreign banks in Serbia at the same level as in the previous period. Do we want to remind today who took part in this first package, or are we going to say that it's only the merit of those who have a biography? Since 2009, and anti-crisis packages, unfortunately, we have not had a serious package of anti-crisis measures up to now, which meant subsidized interest to businesses after the formation of this government. The question was then immediately asked whether we would have enough companies to compete and provide subsidized loans. What turned out to be? Turns out we have three times as many demands as we have money at our disposal. Let architecture in the second anti-crisis package in the spring of 2013 show some other things that are presently with other actors, but the directions are the same. Of course, talks with banks on exposure to funds in Serbia is significantly higher than in the previous period and discussions on foreign and domestic banks towards economic operators. We'll all benefit from that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6302	Mr. Veselinović, come in. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6303	Mr. Ilic mentioned DS in a negative context, I think we should even warn him after he came out of the topic. Mr Djelic did not talk about G17 plus or regions in this way. We as DS have no problem. We had democratic elections. We're in opposition, which, in a constructive way, I think we've shown this these days, points to all the negative things that are happening, that is, about the laws that you're making. We cannot praise the laws that are bad, which are unconstitutional and which are against the legal system, which are bad for the citizens of Serbia, which are bad for the economy of Serbia, which ultimately cloud reality among the ranks, but very clearly, when they are applied, only their consequences will be felt, such as the Law on Public Enterprises. I ask you not to include again in this debate topics that are not subject to discussion and to return to what is a problem, and these are the shortcomings of these laws that the government has put into practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6304	Thank you. We're going back to the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Guric? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6305	Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I will use some time simply to be correct to Parliament. Members of 106 and 107 are injured, the speaker can only talk about the agenda point, and here for 15 to 20 minutes we have been talking about everything else, not the agenda points and discussing former coalition relations in previous governments. The second thing is the speaker, and this also applies to Mrs Kalanovic, who is obliged to speak the truth at the meetings of the National Assembly. I believe that, if that doesn't happen, if you tolerate something that isn't true, it hurts the dignity of the National Assembly, so Article 107. Mrs. Kalanovic said there is a consensus in this government, that party officials cannot be directors, or that those who wish to be directors can freeze their functions and then carry out their duties. It's not in the law you proposed to parliament. This does not apply to 650 future directors of local public enterprises, which will not have to freeze their function. They are subject to the terms of the Labour Act, according to the bill. There are no conditions for freezing functions in the political party. Secondly, another very important question is being raised that you do not answer with the bill – what does it mean if someone freezes a function in the political party and remains, for example, a MP in the Serbian Parliament? Whether he's still a political official or not. Third, you mentioned your party's promise that nowhere in this law will its candidates run for directors. Did I understand you well, not in any of the 700 directors of public enterprises in Serbia? I think it's very important that you say and it would be good that you take up a session of parliament and some political obligation or political responsibility, that you bear the proper consequences as a politician, unless your promise here today is fulfilled. It's not just about the relationship between your party and DS. This other kind of injury I won't particularly point out, but I'm asking you to warn the SNS MPs to take the cards with them when they come out of the room, the cards are back in, so we don't keep opening that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6306	Please have the service take out all the cards of all the MPs who are not in the O.R. and have their cards in the system. I'll answer to this. I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure because during the replica, speakers were allowed to express an opinion that was contrary to the opinion that, I say, could have been a misreading, which was offensive to them. At that point, they don't have to talk strictly about what's on the agenda. However, yesterday and today all day long, I invite all Members of the people to stick to the agenda. At this point, I was allowing one controversy through the replicas, so that we would not just consider parliament closed, or that there was a possibility of tolerance. However, in accordance with Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure, since I'm taking care of the order of the National Assembly, I'll see to it that I tolerate to a lesser extent any debate through replicas and I'll try to get the debate back on the agenda. The word is Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6307	I stand for responsibility for the spoken word. I'm sorry I left out the republican. Yes, none of the members of the RS with political functions will report to any competition in the republican public enterprises. As you know, honourable Members of Parliament, I am Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government. I don't live in parallel reality, and I know every step of Serbia. I think this law represents the first stage in the departisation and depolitisation of public enterprises, in total, both in the Republic and in the locale. I think the adoption of this law, which is strictly applicable to the locale, would significantly reduce human resources throughout Serbia. I think wherever possible, at the places of directors of public enterprises, and at the bar, they should be non-partisan people. There are places where it's not possible and where the whole intellectual elite is, if that's what I can call it, and I can, it's usually in certain cities in political parties. By removing them from performing any function in the local government other than the town's head of the municipality, the deputy president, the speaker of the assembly and deputy speaker of the assembly, would be to lower the personnel capacity of poor Serbia anyway. I would like to take you with me in Serbia in certain municipalities, in local self-government, to attend together the reports that local self-governments give both to their congregations and to the competent ministers of work. You will see that the decision, I suppose, that you are in favour of, for all 700 public enterprises, would be in certain cities, according to that people's – with the dirty water from the trough we threw the child out. In order for that to not happen, this is a law that depolitizes itself in the first step. In the next period, we have to do it in all places.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6308	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, the previous chairman has completed the cycle of replicas. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: Mrs Kalanovic replied to me. All right, explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6309	Mrs. Kalanovic responded to me, and I don't think that's controversial. So what she was saying was about what I was saying before and about the LDP parliamentary group. I agree with you a little bit, but it's just saying how much trouble this country is in. I hope that you agree with me, too, and I don't see what kind of solution you've proposed, helps to change that situation in some future period, not to be the whole intellectual elites in these small places, as you yourself said, that they expand or not be tied exclusively to political parties. Secondly, you say -- about some of the environments in Serbia, presenting it as an exception. But that rule or deviation from the rule that it cannot be a function of a political party, put into law as an exception. You put that as a rule, since this applies to 650 companies, it doesn't apply to 50. That's over 90% of these companies. Another very important thing, in one part of your previous exposure, you said that control in companies that have been weak for years, and some for more than a decade in the process of restructuring, because the government has no capacity to control 170 companies and we need to get out of this as soon as possible. I agree with that, but why, on the other hand, are you predicting a system of different kinds of controls compared to 700 public enterprises in Serbia? What capacity does the government have to exercise? In the law you provided that ministers could initiate procedures, that they could control themselves and be the basis for a potential shift of incomplete or incorrect statements, etc. Who will control it in government compared to Serbia, which has seven million inhabitants and which has over 700 public enterprises? That is why this law is not effective, and that is why we have submitted 20 amendments to it. This is all Serbia's sociological analysis is correct and I agree with that, but I don't think it's Serbia's fault, or the local community, that political parties, we who create such a reality in Serbia, are still more responsible political parties that have been in power for 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6310	Thank you. The word is by MP Dragana Djukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the laws that would have taken effect with the adoption of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would have allowed Serbia to take the upward path in 2013, would lead to an increase in liquidity in the economy, which would mean that the economy has a chance for growth and development. What is very important, these laws would also lead to a reduction in costs. One step in modernising and developing Serbia is also the Foreign Exchange Law, which allows payments to be made abroad not only through banks, but can finally be done in some other way, or via the Internet. These changes to the law are good because it will allow the business of citizens and businesses abroad to be much faster and more effective, as unnecessary records and bureaucratic procedures that are in Serbia will be released, you must admit, a very common phenomenon. In this set of laws, in addition to the foreign exchange law already mentioned, there is also a Law on the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. It may be a law that will change the entire financial picture of Serbia and will represent a major rehabilitation of finance and economy in Serbia. This law, of course after adoption in this home, will begin to apply on 31 March 2013 and not only will discipline the payment system, but it will also oblige the state to fulfil its obligations within the deadline provided for, or within 45 days. The establishment of such a system will bring the largest source of liquidity into order, thereby increasing the liquidity of the private sector and economy itself. The introduction of criminal penalties for all those responsible will create a feeling that the state and responsible persons in the state authorities should be an example of respect for payment deadlines. The law passed a public debate and proved to have strong support for Serbia's economy. This law and the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, which was adopted three days ago in the National Assembly, for the first time in a long time after a number of years, is the basis in which all state resources will be placed in the role of improving the economic position and reducing unemployment, aimed at raising Serbia's citizens' standards. The adoption of such laws would be a continuation of economic measures and would be the basis for further reform in the face of a crisis that represents one of the basic objectives of the work of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A set of laws and the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 will establish a balance of savings and incentives, and on the other hand, the most vulnerable layers of the population will indeed be protected. Of course, it will also try to channel financial resources to finance the perspective economy, not to finance unnecessary bureaucratic projects and not to finance the loss of economy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6312	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6313	Mr. Chairman, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is indeed a pleasure for me to present the biography of the former, the present, and for finally finding out when who was born, whether he was born by this political coalition or before. It's a good thing we've met Serbian citizens as well. I must warn all of you, but also the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that from the biography and data on biographies and workers, neither the citizens of Serbia live nor will they be much better off. Otherwise, if I had spoken at yesterday's session, surely my presentation would have been completely different than today, because I had a lot of objections about the Law on Public Enterprises, as well as a lot of other MPs, which we saw during yesterday. My expectations about this law, as a fundamental and reform law, were extremely high. In view of all those announcements on public sector reform, which included departementisation. I think you will all agree with me that the control of public enterprises by political parties, completely uncontrolled employment, the use of public enterprises in election campaigns by political parties, but in the ultimate line of social policymaking within these companies, has been an absolute threat to the collapse of public enterprises and to the complete collapse and endangering of the position and existence of all employees within the public sector. Because of public sector employees, but also because of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who paid the price of such a policy, I think it is a good thing that in yesterday's session, Minister Dinkic announced that he would accept much of the LDP amendment, as well as other opposition parties that would improve the quality of this law. For these very reasons, my objections to this law are less than they were yesterday. Now I am not fascinated by the appearance of the Law on Public Enterprises and that by accepting a number of amendments this law on public enterprises has become fundamentally good. Generally my objections to the Law on Public Enterprises remain. It is a reform of the concept of public enterprises, which is essential, because if there was a reform of the concept of many of these things we would not need to discuss within this debate, so within Parliament. On the other hand, one of the general grudges is a bad public debate which by nature is aimed at improving the law. It is absolutely bad that the laws, as was the case with the budget, did not get the opinion of the Social-Economic Council. I cannot speak well about the Social-Economic Council and not at all about social dialogue in Serbia. I am known for the criticism of the state of social dialogue in Serbia, because I think those who make up the Social-Economic Council are not representative in terms of the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that this violates the fundamental rights of other social dialogue participants. Regardless of my position, I will always represent the opinion that all laws before coming to the debate in the Assembly must be given the opinion and consent of the Social-Economic Council. I will remain in the Privatisation Act, i.e. I will talk about that provision and limit the deadline for restructuring the company on 30 June 2014. In principle, I think the government's decision is good, no matter what the reactions to my exposure, because I think the restructuring of public enterprises is taking too long, and I think we're recorders by having some companies that have been in restructuring for 20 years. I think that in those previous governments it was a great responsibility that the restructuring of businesses lasted this long and that there was a lot of responsibility for all those who participated in the previous governments. Today in Serbia, we have another 171 enterprises in restructuring. This is the exact information. Unfortunately, we never know what number of people are involved in certain sectors. There are 63,000 employees in these companies. What's completely devastating is the fact that this isn't just about 63,000 people who depend on these companies, but that figure goes to 200,000 people. I'm talking about members of their families who, though, are difficult, but still live off these companies. So, by fully supporting these amendments to the law and limiting the period of validity, that is, the duration of restructuring in Serbia, I would still appeal to the government and to all those responsible that all these companies do not just release a series of water and that during this period of a year and a half, or how much longer is left, do everything to keep these companies or at least one of these companies alive. In that sense, I have certain suggestions. I don't think these companies should be seen and treated in a package, that there should be a case by case. It is necessary to strengthen the effort to sell some of them or at least sell them in certain parts. I think it takes a much more flexible approach than privatisation, like a strategic partnership. It is necessary to do a detailed study and analysis of each individual of these companies and where there are grounds, with the support of the state, to go to their rescue. I'm going to say something else that I know is going to cause reactions, but I think the worst, even in this period, would be to give subsidies to these companies as a social, as social aid, where subsidies only go for profit. In that sense, I have one proposal, which I think is one way to save these companies, which is to form a consortium. The consortium would form for any specific business. It would be entered by repro companies and a mandatory Development Fund. To make this clear, I'm going to set an example. The Rakovica engine industry has completed a job to export tractors to Ethiopia. It's a good and important job. In this context, a consortium would be created between IMR, IMT and other companies whose parts are being built in. The Development Fund would participate with credits and guarantees, and crafts would, at least one part, be provided from subsidies... (President: Mrs Savic, the time of the parliamentary group has been spent, unfortunately, so I ask you to finish your thought. ) So, trade funds would be provided from subsidies only for the contracted business. This solution, which you were talking about, would also be an incentive for the directors to engage more, not just standing outside the ministry door looking for subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6314	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6315	The esteemed chairman, minister, associates, MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support all eight draft laws, economic laws that are on the agenda. Our position was expressed yesterday by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, and today, most of all, our colleague Djordje Milicevic spoke about the laws. So I'm just going to take a quick look at some of these laws, and those who haven't drawn enough attention to everyone else. When it comes to the law on conditional write-offs and debt-restriction, I just want to take a brief look at it the following way. The proposed law provides for the write-off of interest that has arrived, and are not paid, to settle the debt. The name says so - conditionally. The condition is that the debt rests if November and December, to use the term, the war pays by January 31st next year, that is when the right is met, and the interest if it pays the current tax obligations. The first thing I want to say and what I think is good is that it's not the first time we've faced a write-off, but it's the first time we've done it by law. I think it's very valuable that the law regulates it. The second thing I want to say about that is that a large number of subjects are in a situation where they haven't reconciled their tax obligations. I'm not talking about that sum of 900 billion, or 500 billion, of that other sum that talks about living interest companies, I'm just going to stick to that 180 billion-dollar capital that live companies owe and warn that it's more than a fiscal deficit, that it's twice as much as social contributions in the Republic of Serbia. If I didn't say what it would mean if those funds were focused on education, culture, etc. So it's a big sum. We are aware, of course, that a good number of economic operators have found themselves in these conditions of the economic crisis under difficulties and that they could not settle these tax obligations. Some have come into this situation because the state has not met their obligations, so they have come into a situation that cannot be reconciled. So, just for a little while, we support that law on payment deadlines for cash commitments, because it introduces order and financial discipline. I even think it's an answer to the request of the economy, if I'm not mistaken. So, this move gives these companies the opportunity to catch their breath, to start production, to save jobs, maybe to hire new ones, to create conditions for themselves that they can regularly pay tax obligations. Only current obligations to pay, that's already a big deal, on the financial side. We'll back it up. When it comes to this law, I only wanted to say one sentence to ask the government, my government, which has fallen for a lot of things, a lot of the problems it faces, it does not push them under the carpet, but one by one solves, that conditions and measures in the coming period, especially parallel to getting out of the economic crisis, creates a climate in Serbia and the obligation to pay taxes is a normal thing. Paying contributions is a normal thing. Paying your salary is a normal thing. It's a normal commitment to be fulfilled. In that case, we will not get into this situation that we have to spend more on pensions from the budget because the contributions are not paid, etc. In that case, we also answer the question, Is it fair to those who regularly pay their dues? What they pay regularly is normal, it is a obligation, but we must not continue to keep the climate that is created, that it is easier not to pay because the state will one day write it off or do something, but to pay regularly, that it is easier not to pay for electricity because the state will one day write it off, that it is easier to build a house, so it is legalized, but legally built and planned, etc. I hope you understand my suggestion. Let's do everything we can to stop this trend and create a climate that is perfectly normal to pay taxes, contributions and wages, etc. In short, when it comes to the law amending the Privatisation Act, let me say immediately that we will support it. There are two big problems here, not one. One is the company's restructuring problem which is quite a problem, a large number of workers are concerned, a large number of businesses, but it takes a long time. One more thing, it keeps increasing, because more of the privatisation contracts have been cancelled, it is increasing. It is one problem that this government must deal with harder, to help solve it as soon as possible, rather than wait for the deadline of 2014 when it will in itself be resolved. The other problem is not only those enterprises in restructuring not only that, but a large number of creditors of these entities in restructuring that cannot collect their obligations, or even according to judicial judgments. So another number of companies is questionable that they can't function. My message is, I ask this government to do everything possible to help all these firms in this period who can stand on their feet and get out of this restructuring process, and thus contribute to themselves and their companies, but also to those who remain in debt. In short, when it comes to amending the Insurance Act, it is one sentence to extend the deadline that was until the end of 2012, it extends until the end of 2013 when life insurance is to be separated from non-life insurance. I'll tell you right away when the insurance law was passed in 2005, that's when we asked. In 2009, when it was the first deadline, in 2011, when the second deadline was 2012, when the third deadline is now the fourth year 2013, you asked us to apply EU practice. The EU regulation requires the separation of lives from non-life insurance, but leaves the country with the possibility of retaining both of them, of course under special conditions. We are instructed and cited and so far, I say again that they run business books particularly separately, incomes, expenditures, results, that they specifically form and manage investment portfolios, that they distinguish property, etc. Please, separate life from non-life insurance in Serbia whose market is young, in turn, means just to give the market to foreign very developed insurance houses. The country's obligation is to help this industry, insurance in Serbia, because it can have a great deal of it. At the time, we had an answer and I hear and I welcome that in the plan of passing this law that will regulate it, that such an alternative is possible. I only took the opportunity to suggest to you as soon as possible to pass a full insurance law and respect what many countries in the EU have respected, and some countries that have even separated have brought back. So that's our idea. We'll support all of this, of course, but let's use it and really pass a comprehensive insurance law the way I talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6316	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6317	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, in a set of these financial laws we are discussing today, and I will specifically refer to it, is also the draft law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt. Once again, this law gives all taxpayers a chance, above all, to obtain the condition that their main tax debt rests, small businesses for two years, and a large year, and that their tightening interest is written off as a whole. Of course, with the condition found on 31 October 2012, with the condition that their current obligations are settled from 1 November of this year and beyond in 2013 and 2014. I wouldn't call this law system law anyway. This is one of the extorted laws, and I'd say the Lex of a specialist who deals with a state-of-the-art, and they're intended or intended to sort out as much as possible the situation that's chaotic in the financial system. They certainly aim to discipline taxpayers financially, above all, taxpayers and what is likely to be the most important for the Ministry of Finance, to aim at increasing the income side of the budget in the coming year and in the coming years through increasing tax revenues, or more regularly paying the same tax obligations. Yesterday, Mr. Minister said so, and we knew that the tax debt of all the debtors on 31 October was 967 billion dinars. That is to compare, without a little, rather than even slightly less than the entire revenue side of the 2013 budget. Of which, about 483 billion are the debts of active enterprises that worked during the previous period, which are likely for some other reasons, but primarily because of non-financial discipline reached this stage. Of the total amount, 627 billion dinars are interest. This is the amount that would be written off provided that if we say or hypothetically assume that 100% of taxpayers or debtors will meet this condition for the write-off of interest. Remember, 627 billion dinars need to be written off. Probably all of us here are wondering and those who know so much better, those of course who sat in the government know why this came about, but our citizens are certainly wondering why there's been so much debt to the IRS. Is that the reason for the inefficient work of the Tax Administration, of a state body, of a state institution? Is it, above all, guilty of this kind of debt, let's say the big world crisis, which of course didn't pass us by, which, of course, left the tragic consequences of our economy, of course, by the citizens themselves, or by the majority, that very financial indiscipline of all our taxpayers. What I would point out, many of us are in these discussions and say, three categories of taxpayers will be subject to this law. One is those who regularly paid their tax obligations, who did not calculate with where to invest free funds, did not have their priorities but in time and regularly reconciled their tax obligations. Yesterday, the minister said he had a moral dilemma as much as these taxpayers would be affected. I do not believe that they will be satisfied with the fact that by adopting some other laws, including this one, they will indirectly collect their debts, or let their claims be made by their debtors. I'm afraid that part of these regular taxpayers in the next period will calculate with them becoming debtors now, not paying in time for their obligations and waiting for some new Lex specialization that will free them of the tight interest. The second group of taxpayers are those who have not arrived late because of their financial indiscipline. These are probably mostly those economic operators affected by this global economic crisis, which is why, in fact, they are unlikely, probably because their business areas were the very ones most affected by the economic crisis, which became insolvent, did not pay their regular obligations from commercial transactions, and thus became taxpayers. I don't know how many such companies are now in a position to meet this condition given by law, that they can continue to pay their obligations regularly, to obtain a condition for their interest to be written off, and the main debt rests. I'm afraid they'll still be late, they don't have money, they don't have the means to settle their current obligations regularly, they'll have their old debts back in interest, and I'm afraid they'll get into big, bigger problems, that they'll end up bankrupt. According to the Chamber of Commerce, over 57,000 small and medium-sized enterprises registered in the APR are no longer known whether they exist or do not exist because they have not paid their tax obligations for years. Finally, the third group of taxpayers, to whom all of this applies, are those who have calculated with it, i.e. were primarily financially undisciplined. They had their priorities, where they would invest free funds. They did not respond to tax solutions to settle their obligations regularly, and now it is best for them. Meanwhile, they have invested their resources in modernising equipment, increasing the number of employees, and they will now be able, at least I think, to easily pay off their current obligations and to obtain a condition for them to lose these interest rates. I believe most of them are in these 627 billion dinars. In order to know why, there should be a list of tax administrations, where we will see what are the biggest taxpayers who have been solvents, who have actively worked in the previous period, and have become large debtors to this country. However, justice certainly does not exist, that as much as we have an economically more balanced burden and that we would have as many of these effects as we do for those most at risk, the DSS has considered it appropriate to suggest that these provisions are indeed 100%, above all, related to entrepreneurs, small businesses, medium and large enterprises, which are concerned with food and export production, and in the case of a natural person that primarily refers to those who are currently unemployed and those who are currently receiving a minimum. For everyone else who could pay their dues, they were credited, and they weren't, we wouldn't agree to write off a 100% interest, maybe that penalty part, but that interest that would increase at least with a percentage of the price growth to a little bit, to keep them as a debt and as a liability to the IRS. Of course, we can't, and the widest layers of the population usually pay taxes most regularly, and of course there are entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, and they can't, by their regular payment, cover not the payments of large companies and large agencies. In the end, what remains a problem, a tax debt like this, is that it must no longer be repeated. So we have to systematically approach this problem, we must no longer come into a situation to pass special laws, which will regulate an inherited bad condition, but we will have to pass system laws, which will in the future eliminate or disable taxpayers, as a colleague said, what is most normal in one country, is that you pay a regular tax, that there is no more debt, that we spend an entire annual budget, or write off. The question is how Serbia is able to do it. I think it's one of the system laws that will regulate it in this set of laws, exactly the Law on the terms of settlement of monetary liabilities, and somewhat the Law on tight interest. Just in the end, this law will apply to all those economic operators, not to mention the citizens, primarily the business entities, which are registered in the APR. This government, as well as all previous ones, should have, and this and the future in particular, considered resolving the problem of the grey economy in Serbia. I don't want to give myself the freedom to volunteer, what is that percentage of overall economic business in the gray economy, but trust me, that's a huge percentage. We will easily, let's say conditionally easy, without certain legal solutions, which I suppose will come after each other, to capture all those registered economic operators. Let's find a possibility, a system opportunity, to embrace the gray economy. Once again, the DSS has sent a lot of amendments to a set of these financial laws and we hope that a good deal of them will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6318	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6319	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members, I believe that all, or at least everyone present here, will agree that the issue of professionalisation of the management of public enterprises, where the department, one of its own, is only mandatory but not sufficient conditions, is one of the few issues of whose necessity, at least the beginning of the resolution, there is the broadest social consensus, not only in the circles of political elites and authorities, but also in the broadest social public. The phenomen of Partocrat, or increasingly intense particization of society across all its segments, is likely to appear more prominently, precisely in the Public Property Management Sector. We have agreed, not just declared, for the purposes of election campaigns, that it is necessary to approach the great preservation and editing of this area. In this regard, this proposal on public undertakings should also be observed. It should, therefore, be the fundamental legal framework, so that the process of professionalisation, but also the departisation of public enterprises, can even begin. He is therefore the result of a clearly expressed political will, proposed in the bill, necessary for this issue to begin to be resolved at all. Of course, the phenomenon of the department can't be solved solely by the adoption of the law. Our legislative practice, by the way, is full of laws passed, which or cannot be applied, because they have emerged as a mere copying of other countries' practices, which have more or less, a different legal, political and social context, in which these solutions have been implemented, or even worse, many laws adopted in the earlier conventions of this House, remained a dead letter on paper, because simply there was no political will for their solutions to be implemented in practice. Which is why their fate was, as in that joke -- we have them, but we don't use them, because the success of the exercise of power is measured a kilo, a meter, to the amount of regulations that have been passed, to achieve concrete benefits through the caressing of international structures, primarily in terms of the will of the start-up position in the political measurement of forces, but this is a broader story and not only applies to public enterprises, but also to how and how it relates to them, while trying to rebuke the fact that the party's division of prey was one of the key mechanisms of political government, so the principles, objectives and roles of public enterprises were fully suppressed in a very third plan. In addition to not achieving those fundamental principles, which is why public enterprises should even exist, such a practice, are wide open doors and possible abuses of state money. Non-transparency in their work, a firm commitment to the management of public enterprises with the tops of the government, resulted in all non-transparent flows of state money. Through sophisticated variants of sponsorship and advertising, he could swim into party registers, especially when it comes to compensation for members sitting in the control bodies of public enterprises, which was less – more known to everyone, but very hard to prove. What were the hands tied to institutions that had to deal with such machinations? Of course, the law cannot solve everything in its own right, and it cannot prevent all the radical consequences of the functioning of public enterprises. So at first, I said that we only have to consider it mandatory, but not sufficient conditions, which must be realized, so that anything could be triggered from the dead spot. In addition to all of this, it is important to mention the possibility of determining the responsibility of selected public companies managers, in particular that we know that the new or possibly new – the old leadership of these companies, will begin their mandate in the extremely difficult conditions of business and the unsettled destruction of these companies, which were dealt with in principle, which mainly had nothing to do with efficiency, economics, or transparency, or with anything that had a rational and economic or any social logic. Therefore, the key factor for their selection should not be overly membership or closeness or support of a party structure, but should be kept in mind that there is no such economic genius, all of which should be imported and largely paid, which could, within a short time, regulate the situation that will arise, especially when considering the social component, which is a factor that cannot be avoided, when it comes to the collection of demand for products and services of public enterprises. That is why social policy will have to be removed from the business of public enterprises on a counter of state authorities, which are authorised to establish and implement social policy. One such solution is to identify the social cards of users, at least some of the services of public enterprises, where it will be determined exactly who needs to be helped by the state and who does not need such assistance. The socially responsible state, for which we all advocate, will have to find quite concrete modes, which will enable on one hand assistance, truly endangered categories of users of services, and on the other hand, removing obstacles to more efficient, rational and more economical management of public enterprises, which should never have been participatory prey to settle the merits of party personnel, or the vacuum valve of state money, or a mere instrument for buying social peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6320	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6321	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, at first I must conclude that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is not in the O.R. again. So, it wasn't really in the O.R. when I discussed the subject of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and it's not in the O.R. today to discuss with MPs the laws he's proposing. I think it is the disrespect of parliament and that it is the disrespect of the citizens of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia showed this morning that it respects neither parliament nor MPs, nor citizens, who chose us, who chose you, who are ministers, because no one came at 10.00 p.m. when we were to begin this debate. We had to postpone the debate by 11.30. I don't think it's possible to talk about all the seven laws you've brought together in one item of the agenda, and it's very important laws for the lives of Serbian citizens. There was a proposal to extend the debate, to make it double, and the ruling majority did not allow it. That's why I'm only going to talk about the Public Business Act. The law on public enterprises should also lead to the departementisation of public enterprises. That's not gonna happen with this law. We are all witnesses, who have read this law, that this law legalises party influence on public enterprises. I will remind Serbian citizens that all political parties or almost all political parties participating in the previous parliamentary elections have committed themselves and signed that it will lead to the departisation of public enterprises. We all know what the problem is that politics is run by public enterprises. We all know how many public enterprises these past years have been, I don't just think about the last 12 years, I mean the period before 2000, how many public enterprises have been destroyed and collapsed in those years, and how many public enterprises have been used to meet party needs of party personnel. Minister Dinkic himself said yesterday that there was no consensus in the government to carry out the departmental process until the end, but he did not want to answer the question of who it is against the government's department, which is a political party that is against departementisation and depolitisation, whether it's SNS or it's the SPS. We didn't get an answer to that question. I think his answer was dishonest because I don't find it difficult to find the majority for the Serbia Parliament today. We made it clear to you that DS supports the department, LDP supports the department, LSV supports, SVM and SPO. I hope there are also some parties in the ruling coalition that support the detachment. So, there is no problem in making a majority of the department and conducting the departementation until the end of today in Serbia's parliament. This problem is obviously in the ruling coalition. This law, which we all feel is so important, we should have brought to a public debate, to agree in a public debate and after that on how to conduct the department. It's not a matter of political parties and it's not a matter of political ideology. So this is our definition, everyone involved in political life, whether we want to departize or not to departize public enterprises. This law legalises party influences because a party commission is being introduced. The government of the Republic of Serbia will appoint a commission. It'll be a party commission. By law, there can be no MPs on the party committee. So, they can't be representatives of citizens, but they can be ministers. So, in the party commission, designated by the government, the government's sitting ministers. I believe it will also be the presidents of political parties. The party commission, which has five members, will determine all directors of public enterprises. It determines in such a way that the party commission proposes three, and then the minister will choose one of the three. It doesn't have to be the best, it has to be the one that tastes like the minister. So we legalise party influence in selecting public companies' bodies. Who are the directors? Directors may be party members under this law and may be party officials. So there's no way to talk about any influence of the party being thrown out of public enterprises by this law. Party officials reportedly have an obligation if they become directors to freeze their membership. What does "freeze membership" mean? We who sit here know that it absolutely means nothing. There is no term in the Law on political parties for freezing membership, and that absolutely means nothing. We'll have high-ranking party officials at the offices of the director of public enterprises. It's not worth the explanation the minister gave us, that the U.S.S. won't run. We're not in the party party today, that you're talking about what your party is going to do. Your party has far less part and less influence on the government of the Republic of Serbia. What are these other parties gonna do? It is not a departmentalization that someone promises us, so we believe in the word – we will not propose party officials. That is why everyone else will propose party officials. We've seen that in the last three months. We read in the paper who became people of very important and important public enterprises. Therefore, it is neither a departmentalisation nor that, instead of the board of directors, authorities in a public enterprise will be called the Supervisory Board. It's not a neck. It's a neck. The Board of Supervisors is doing everything the board of directors has done. Who's sitting on the board of directors? There are five members, of whom the law says one is independent. One of the employees and three of them are addicted. What does it mean, three people are addicted? Who are they addicted to? They're addicted to political parties. They're dependent on the president of political parties. So, you in law alone put that three, which is most of the members of the Supervisory Board, will be party people. Not professional people, but party people. I think there's absolutely no reason why we can't write in this law that they can't be high-ranking or party officials, that they can't be board members and that they can't be directors of public enterprises. All those who have spent the past four years, to say two years in party functions, cannot be directors and board members. We can add another provision. If you were directors of a public enterprise, you can't be in a second high political position in the country for the next two years. In this way, very simply, we now need to agree and vote once and for all to departify public enterprises. I repeat once again, I'm sorry there was no more public debate. In that public debate, someone might also say what's going on with the assets of public enterprises. Nobody said anything about that. Neither did Minister Dinkic mention when he represented the law. For the first time, and it's good that the public company has its own property, but what worries me is a member of the 10th that we all keep quiet, where it says that the public company is responsible for its obligations with all its assets. That wasn't the case until now. I ask the question - if we know that public enterprises owe huge money, do we know and whether an analysis has been made to whom they owe this money and who is it that will take over the property of public enterprises based on the claim? In this way, the small door introduces privatisation of public enterprises, without any strategy, without discussion of it and without analysis. These are just some of the reasons the DS won't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6322	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been paying attention to the presentation of the previous speaker. It is true that a large number of public enterprises are in debt. I ask the question – to whom is it due? I think members of the former regime know best, because they run these public enterprises both republican and local. The story of the departmentalisation of public enterprises because no consensus has been reached and a deliberate question arises - did the SNS have a problem with the adoption of this law? It is, but not in the direction that you wanted to show it, but in the direction that it really was a complete department. Is this law good? It's better than the last one. Is he the best? It's not. That's what you heard from the president of the SNS. When it comes to these famous assets, the biggest debtors are essentially debtors and debts are created on the basis of the loan. Who knows a little about the financial sector knows that. It is also known that if it is a public enterprise, the founder is the Republic, if it takes credit, the National Assembly must give consent, so that at least these public enterprises are guaranteed by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is similar with local self-government, because for their responsibilities, consent and warranty the local self-government unit provides. However, that question that is mostly raised in this whole story, when this legislation was at stake, which is – why the ex-post mind? Gentlemen of the DS, you had your chance. Why didn't you use it? Believe me, we won't miss this opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6324	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll start work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Branislav Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6326	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, is today ahead of us a set of proposals for economic laws adopted by the Government that are approaching European and economic standards. The objective of these laws is to form part of the Budget Act for 2013. The year is an improvement in Serbia's economic environment. The objective must be through discipline of the financial sector, raising the liquidity of the economy and reducing state costs. These are all inevitable steps in the consolidation of the economic sector. The draft law on settlement deadlines for financial liabilities in commercial transactions sets out payment deadlines for the private sector for 60 days and for the state for 45 days. This introduces financial order, and this is the necessary measure of therapy for an unregulated financial system. Consistent application of this law from 31 March 2013 provides for tight interest, criminal penalties and control for responsible persons in the payment chain as a control mechanism in the financial sector. The state was the biggest indifference generator, and this law would make the state itself financially disciplined. Public enterprises, local self-government, province and republican authorities will be controlled by the Treasury. Any default will mean a default on all other liabilities until the debt is settled. Penalties for responsible ministers, directors of public enterprises, municipality presidents, province secretaries, will be between 5,000 and 150,000 dinars for the offence. In this way, and this is how the state becomes a visual specimen for respecting payment deadlines. With great satisfaction, they can confirm that the bill was created in direct consultation with businesses, those who have problems in the financial sector, recognized directly in practice and pointed out how they were overcome through legal solutions. For the liquidity of the economy, it is also important to adopt a law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt. This law would give all entrepreneurs and businesses a new chance to start again. Due to the economic crisis, the debt tax at the republic's level is as much as 967 billion dinars of which is 1/3 of the principal, and 2/3 are interest. Under the bill, it would be possible to write off interest in the event of payment of the main debt immediately, and it is envisaged that the tax debt will be settled for those who are unable to immediately pay off the main tax debt for a year for large corporations and two years for small and large medium-sized enterprises. The right to remain in debt is achieved and maintained only by regular service of current obligations. Also, as a relief, it is possible to pay off the debt to 24 wars. This law at the time of adoption will allow the company to automatically build a blockade. This conditional tax amnesty will bring a significant inflow into the budget. That would only pay off 10% of the debt, budget revenues would be 18 billion dinars, and it would be wind in the back of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6327	The word has a folk MP, Miss Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6328	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Minister Dinkic said the other day that he is a man who loves criticism and does not want the debate in parliament on this set of economic laws to be boring, so I hope the minister will not mind. We at the DSS think it's very important to return liquidity to the economy, but we have to deal with some details, specifically in these laws, so that it can happen in the right way. First of all, I'm going to say something about the draft law on settlement deadlines for commercial transactions, in order to maybe clarify a few parts. What I am interested in at the beginning, we are going in turn, from Article 3 since the date on which the payment obligation is within the meaning of point 3) where it says that a review of the subject-matter may take 30 days, if spoken. Is this the period when surveillance is required to define whether this service has been performed, if any goods have been admitted, etc., or if it's something else? Also, I believe that the contracts between the two sides, between the partners, had to give freedom to these entities to agree on all matters in the contract themselves, and also to pay, while the state here, as far as some wars are concerned, gives maximum two wars and that 50% must be one war and everything to settle within 90 days. The contract is one agreement between the two parties, and I believe that perhaps there was no need for the state to intervene, especially since this Article 6 defines that those provisions of the contract that are not in accordance with the law will be void, above all in terms of these payments. The penalty policy, we heard in yesterday's debate, may be a little more dramatic, and the fines are quite large, and I'm interested in, among other things, how we're going to decide, how the authorities that decide on it will decide who will be punished by 100,000, and who with two million and what it depends on, on the amount of outstanding debt or maybe something else. We were aware of that yesterday, of course, that there are a lot of current debts both in the public and private sectors, and the minister was talking about how and how it will be regulated, but I don't think all these debts can be settled, paid off in the period until March 31st, so we're going to get into that period when we're going to have these backlogs, so we need to think about how and how to get rid of it. We are aware that over the past years, there have been a lot of local self-governments that have not paid utility, electricity and I wonder if this law, I haven't found anywhere, but maybe there is somewhere, these debts will be resolved, or whether payment deadlines of those 45, 60 days between state institutions to the EPS, "Srbigas" etc. What we think from the DSS is that we would return liquidity to the economy and in order to start these companies, first of all we have to deal with different branches of the economy. So it's not the same everywhere. We know in the explanation that 134 days is some indicative, or average time limit when these funds are paid for the commitments made. For example, we believe that in construction, for example, over 220 days this average payout deadline may be necessary to build up some groups of these industries, where they will return, or where the repayment deadlines will be somewhat longer, as you have suggested here in the bill, for example, for the Republic Health Insurance Fund, so it could be defined for different branches of the economy, because the situation is quite difficult. We are increasing, as Government, as state, taxes, VAT, corporate income tax, capital gains, limit payment deadlines, and we are asking for the economy to be liquid and to make it all spin fast. I believe that money and resources certainly do not exist and that it is necessary, that the intention is certainly good, as our authorised representative said, but that it must be a little more serious, a little bit better and a little longer to be done, because it is a lot more instant and some ad hoc law, we need to solve some things systematically. As far as the Law on Public Enterprises is concerned, there's been a lot of talk about this law. I'll talk about it in amendments. What may need to be pointed out is that I think there are insufficient numbers of members of the Supervisory Board for Public Enterprises in local self-government. I come from local self-government, so that's what I was most interested in. Article 18 defines all 14 activities to be dealt with by those members of the Supervisory Board. They have to leave all other things, just to deal with these public enterprises, which, for example, in their composition and in their works have parking, and cemetery and plumbing, and sewerage, and greenery, and construction operation etc. and it's very difficult to take care of all this, so we suggested that this number be increased, possibly. The criteria for representatives of supervisory committees, or members of supervisory committees, for an independent member, for the director may be few, in my opinion, rigid, in the sense that in small local self-governments it is very difficult to find people who will be able to find a man who is an expert, who has not been engaged in audits, financial reports, etc. and that he is not yet a member of the political party. We all in these local self-governments, with those 10, 15, 20,000 inhabitants, we try to make sure that those of the best, most professional, always attract to be in our ranks. I think this is very problematic and I don't think it can be fulfilled and it won't be possible to realize it. It's simple, the law can't be applied. It is similar with other members of the Supervisory Board, where we have suggested that this year's work experience be reduced in points 4 and 5. It should be kept in mind that the goals you want to achieve by this law are achieved, but certainly that it is realistic and that, within the smaller local self-government that is most in Serbia, it can be realised. I do not understand the role of the Executive Board, in the sense that members of the Executive Board are being rehired. Does this mean new employment in public enterprises and do these fees represent some new costs for these public enterprises? As for the appointment of directors, I later saw it defined according to the Labour Act. I think it's better and, of course, I can't suddenly meet these criteria, like for state-owned enterprises, which should definitely be. We should give young people as many chances as possible. We're training a huge number of managers. Of the 5.142 managers who graduated in 2010, eight of them found jobs. I think we also have to work on that and maybe reduce these criteria to get younger people in a little early, at least in these local public enterprises to work and deal with management issues, which they certainly did compete for. I don't think these adopted programmes of local public enterprises should be sent to some five ministries, especially if it's written through a written report. I think it's a huge bureaucracy, a waste of paper, that we're not talking about a tree that's being destroyed, and also about the realization of these adopted programmes, so we certainly count that this local Assembly, that these supervisory committees that exist, that certain bodies that are reviewing financial reports, are probably enough to decide that this programme in local public enterprises is well enough to be implemented. It's just, there's no need to send it away. Enough with the centralization, let's do the decentralisation. I also find it unclear why we would punish local self-government by refusing to transfer, unless they respect public enterprises certain items or respect that policy of profit and employment in public enterprises, so we now choose someone who may have been deliberately chosen to reduce those transfers to local self-government or to cut them off, to do something like that. Serbia is in 149 places in the area of tax obligations... (President: Miss Bozanic, your parliamentary group's time is up. I wanted to say something about the Privatization Act... (Chairman: Please finish your thought.) ) I just wanted to say that Serbia is in 149 places in the field of tax obligations, of 185 countries and that 34% of the company's income is taxed, so we have to make sure that we actually bring liquidity into the economy, to start the thing. It can't be done by raising deadlines this fast, by raising different taxes without doing anything on the other side. I've got this thing on the Privatisation Act, which would depend on this, but I guess there's gonna be an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6329	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6330	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office, the Prime Minister, the honourable MPs, my presentation will be slightly different from what was presented in the MPs' presentations, so that it is right to say that the proposal for a law on public enterprises is a good start, and in particular I say a good start towards the road to achieve two objectives. The first goal is professionalisation and professional training in enterprises. The second goal is to depolitize businesses. To be honest, there is no such thing as a law on public enterprises, which would mean a detachment from politics and from authorities. This applies to every authority, and to the one in which the SPS participates, and past power and any future power. It's enough to set up a completely unprofessional personality in public enterprises and connect it to the government. Why? Simply because public enterprises are founded either by a state or an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government. There is no way of removing from politics and therefore there is a lot of hypophysia, a lot of pulsism and a lot of demagogy in the criticism of this law on public enterprises. That's why I'm trying to point out something that I find affirmative in relation to this law, which is facts that cannot be doubted. First, that a real attempt to depolitize was made. How? By being known in public, one institution that represents the foothold of politics and political action in public enterprises has already been eliminated, and these are boards of directors. The responsibility of the Management Board is now transferred to the Authority and the Corps is competent and authorised by the Supervisory Boards, with supervisory committees now having a far stronger control function, what control function and control of the management structure in the company and financial operations in the company. What is important in the paper and what means the quality of this law is the introduction of an institution called the so-called institution. an independent member of the Supervisory Board. An independent member as an institution is also an attempt by the promoter to create guarantees of independence both from the influence of the former enterprise policy, because the future creates no doubt, as well as independence from party influences and financial influences or the lobby of power finance. To what extent this will be achieved and successful, it depends on how the organisation and way of working on the Supervisory Board is set up. But then citizens need to know what it is to qualify and what it is that an independent member of the Supervisory Board has to meet to be a member of the Supervisory Board, as an independent member of the Supervisory Board. There, the law set imperative standards that indicate that it must be trained professionally in the field of action of general interest, which is the work that is currently being done by a public enterprise. It must be independent in this sense that it must not be employed, nor that it has been employed during a certain period of time in a public enterprise and must not be a person who has been involved in any way in the revision of public enterprise financial reports. It is no doubt a shift in relation to each and every one so far to pass a law on public enterprises. Let us not forget another fact that the law also affirms, which is that not only an independent member, but also other members of the Supervisory Board, and the chairman of the Supervisory Board must have appropriate professional training, but must also have an appropriate professional profile obtained by four-year studies at the relevant university. In addition, depoliticalisation appears only to be a matter of the sole professional composition of the Supervisory Board. One logical question arises – will local self-government units in smaller areas be sufficient professional personnel that the parties need to affirm in order to fill in the supervisory board, i.e. affirm their members on the supervisory boards? I doubt he'll be able to. That's where the proposer put things in place by affirming, first of all, his profession. What is also important to point out is that the selection procedure for directors is related to professional profiling and what is very important, it is important to point out that the procedure has been completely transparent since the beginning. Having regard to the provisions relating to the public, having regard to the provisions which allow for the selection of the Director or the selection process of the Director to be able to gain insight into any stage of the commissions and bodies involved in the selection of directors. What might be under proper criticism and where the law could be corrected. I must point out that the motioner is willing to accept the amendments he knows have raised the quality of this law, no doubt ready to continue to accept any well-intentioned suggestions that I will now make in terms of improving the quality of the law. First of all, I am asking and I think it would be all the same for the Committee to put amendments relating to the following facts which, if covered by this law, would significantly improve this law in terms of its practical application. In Užica, I point out, there is one company which, as a regional company, is a dump, established by three municipalities – Užice, Požega and Baja Basta, I know that it is a similar case in Vranje, unfortunately not covered by the provisions of this law. I believe that one of the amendments of the Committee should be that there should be a possibility that a regional enterprise, as a public enterprise, which deals with the activities of general interest, should be established at the level of several units of local self-government, as it was before. This is where you notice it in an imperative or implicit way. Also, there is no implicit indication of what it means and how significant benefit to public enterprises, which is the possibility of communication and establishing co-operation, particularly business-technical and any other co-operation of public enterprises with foreign businesses. We have many companies dealing with various communal activities, which in order to increase the quality of these activities that they are carrying out co-operation with foreign businesses, introduce new technology, increase efficiency, etc. This law does not provide for such a way of realising the work of public enterprises. What seems to this law is a good way to go for something else, which is that after the depoliticalization of public enterprises, which we will certainly seek, we are going to depolitize all other structures that have to be depolitised, and above all, institutions. That's where I'm going to subdue agencies, institutes, institutions that also require treatment in the same way that this law on public enterprises has provided. It is only then that we can say that we have set out on the path of a comprehensive solution to depoliticalisation and all that is observed through the prism of politicization. These are just well-intentioned suggestions that I think may be significant and I would like them to be an integral part of this law. I hope that the resolution board will take this into account between the session in principle and the session in particular when the amendments to this set of laws are considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6331	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6332	People's MP, thank you for your suggestions. Inter-municipal co-operation is one of the directions for co-operation and expansion of the activities of municipalities in the wider territory, especially when it comes to municipal activities. I think your proposal is very constructive and I ask you to submit an amendment that defines the establishment of a board of directors in more municipalities-making enterprises. So it's about a project of inter-municipal co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6333	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6334	It's not a replica. Just one quick answer. I appeal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the positive regulations, I would not be able to submit an amendment to the resolution committee to do so to the Rules of Procedure in order for this to be of quality. Mr. President, with very little time from my parliamentary group, I would like to point out to the Minister, in just a few seconds, another part of this set of laws, which refers to the Privatisation Act. Mrs Kalanovic, I am sure you understand and understand the big problem of the company in restructuring where every day, but literally every day, at least one trustee of the companies that are in the restructuring process, and where these companies are debtors, leads to an economic death, i.e. bankruptcy. I am afraid that the extension of the deadline for the completion of the restructuring by 2014 is a safe path to death for countless businesses and other legal entities that are the creditors of enterprises in restructuring. I ask the Government and the resolution ministry to commit themselves to this, to make a selection of enterprises in restructuring that can be sold according to market criteria and before this deadline is defined in the proposed Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6335	I'll still count this time as a replica, otherwise I'd be breaking the Rules of Procedure if I gave you my word again. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6336	I think he's a injured member of 107. I don't just mean what Mr. Jovanovic was saying. That's why I'd like to warn the Assembly about it. Here already several times in the last few days, now it seems too often and lightly, using the formula that there are small places in Serbia or slightly larger places where there are so few professional and educated people that they will not be able to implement the law. I think it's offensive to those communities after all. I understand what's basically what you're trying to say. How many public enterprises are there in these small areas? Four, five, six, a little more. They have three board members each. I find it offensive to say that there are no 20 or 25 highly educated, professional people in these communities who can perform the tasks of a member of the Supervisory Board or some other high-ranking function in public enterprises. It was my intervention, no intention of particularly apostropheing or accusing anyone of such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6337	Thank you. The MP was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Right to replica.]] You have no right to a replica. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6338	Perhaps I should mention an honourable MP to get a chance, but perhaps in some broader context, I will indeed do so. In fact, before I say a few words about the proposed laws, I have to make a political observation of what's going on here. I join all the criticisms brought to these laws by my previous DS colleagues. We will, of course, give a very large number of quality amendments, with the hope that Minister Dinkic, the government and the resolution board will accept this matter, as the minister promised yesterday. So, yesterday we heard from Minister Dinkic that the Law on Public Enterprises has a lot of shortcomings, that there was no political will to make profound changes in the system of public enterprises, that there was no support in the ruling coalition, and this was confirmed today by the distinguished Mr Arsic. We at DS and LDP agreed to that. One question arises, the SPS remains to say whether they are against full professionalisation and decommissioning. If we take this thing and measure it, it looks like everyone's in favor of making a much deeper change in the Bill of Public Enterprises and somehow it all comes down to the end of the SPS. Maybe the SPS will be able to tell if it's them. If not they, then someone is not telling the truth, then the ruling coalition is once again dishonest to the MPs. I think that's a clear point. In the last few days, we have heard deep differences between the ruling coalition's MPs. With most of these things, we agree. This confirms that this law is concluded on the basis of a political agreement within the coalition, not on the basis of the needs of citizens or what you really need to accept or, if you want to be precise, what was promised in the election campaign. The law on public enterprises is essentially a confirmation and written confirmation that what was promised in the campaign will not be fulfilled. So now we have the ultimate written proof that it's not going to happen. The Management Board ceases to exist, that is correct, but the supervisory boards are taking over their role, with a clearly expressed majority by the government or party majority. Therefore, the party's governing bodies remain. They're now called supervisory, not administrative. The competition will be when the companies decide. There is no obligation until the end of the term of office of those authorities, and therefore, more quickly, many have now scheduled sessions to leave the status of V.D. Government, i.e. The minister can initiate any man's shift in these companies. Not only that, they can choose people on the list who aren't the first on the ranking list. If it's a qualitative step, then I ask you what's wrong? I don't know if anything could be worse than this. Imagine the situation that people will choose in some of the public enterprises in the interior, in the AP Vojvodina, and then the resolution minister will decide - that man is not doing well, I think it's fair that I control him. Yesterday, the minister explained that it was done to avoid the creation of a state in the country. This is the creation of a party or party that absolutely controls all social flows in the Republic of Serbia. Which director will be allowed to do or say anything without liking the Secretary of Resorship? Are you aware, gentlemen of the government, to what extent are you devising the Institute of Public Enterprises and Regional Enterprises? Do either of you think about how these people are going to work? The minister admitted to us yesterday that the decree she banned was, i.e. Providing sanctions based on an incorrect and incomplete statement was a mistake, which means that the law is not well prepared. He promised to change it, but did not promise to amend a provision allowing public enterprises to form within the information domain. That's what we're looking for. This is contrary to the country's strategy for exiting the state from public information. This is a huge mistake that has created unnecessary excitement, especially in journalists' associations in Serbia. It's got to be fixed. Simply, it's contrary not only to law and strategy, it's contrary to your pre-election promise. The person who will be on those supervisory boards may be the person who has not been convicted of criminal activity or legal traffic. That's what we've been saying, it's inaccurate. We'll try to change that with an amendment. A provision should be laid down – a person who has been convicted. Does that mean, which could mean that a person who has been convicted of bribery or abuse of official office or murder can be elected? This practice is repeated again. It seems that someone is very concerned about homeing certain institutions of people who are amnesty. I have no other explanation. This is completely illogical. This is against any interest of this country. It's completely incomprehensible. If it's an oversight, and I wish it were, because yesterday the minister partially touched it, I'm really amazed. It's just amazing. Introduce the same principle then into all the institutions of the Serbian state, so that they can all be convicted. What's certain is that according to this bill, the best ones don't have to be chosen. You have a situation where the selection of directors is carried out by a commission of government or local self-government, and that choice is final. I don't think that's appropriate. Yesterday, the minister seemed to have promised to make it right. It's not normal, it's against the constitution to disable the right to appeal. I think that's where we all agree. I hope that amendment will be accepted. It's about the Law on Public Enterprises. This law is a law that, unfortunately, confirms your resignation from the department. This is a law that confirms that you weren't serious when you promised. The first law of G17, then, which he said -- will be the law of the department, this law confirms that none of it has anything to do with it. I'm glad the minister said I would, but there's no political will. The Serbian Progressive Party said -- and we would do so, but there is no political will, dear Mr. Arsic. We all said that, which means it's the SPS that has no political will. If I'm not telling the truth, I'm sure you'll make me right. Then we don't have a problem. Then you need to get the law back out of the process, so you can fix this. What is certain is that in the Law on time limits and the reconciliation of monetary obligations there are good intentions, but in order to reduce the debt of the state to the economy, you could simply order your directors, which you are now setting up, to pay for their contributions. A 60-day period shall be introduced between economic operators for payment, which is contrary, as the company only regulates its relations and payment deadlines. Then you are calling on the EU Directive, and the EU Directive in points 7 and 11 says it is only applicable if the two parties have not agreed on a deadline. That's true. That's, unfortunately, a big problem. You have such holes in these proposals, that I would hate for you to return the laws to the Assembly as you have returned to the NBS. You're introducing a high-income criminal policy for any late payment in such an inequitable economy. That's bad. Of course, what is very important and what I want to say about, the law on the write-off of interest and the rest of the tax debt is some sort of amnesty of Mladjan Dinkic. It seems to me, someone here mentioned it from the U.S.S. As President Nikolic has his amnesty, the government has its amnesty, and now Mladjan Dinkic has his amnesty. Of course, these laws write off interest rates, and in some cases the main tax debt. In general, a bad message is being sent to taxpayers that the state forgives and practically punishes those who regularly settle their obligations. That is why it is necessary, that we through the amendments and did, that the state, when it acknowledges that there is no mechanism to collect the tax debt, rewards those who regularly settle their obligations. We must send a clear message that taxes and particularly contributions must be paid regularly, so that the state can carry out its social, educational, health, etc. quality role. The DS will therefore insist that the amendments to the taxpayers, which do not have a debt on 31 October 2012, allow them to receive VAT refund within 15 days, instead of 45 days. We think it's correct and as a good signal to people who pay and regularly settle their obligations. Otherwise, now that you're asking the citizens, they say -- so we who paid, who were security citizens, are we fools? So that doesn't happen, this is what we're going to look for. You said you were adopting this law by emergency procedure, because it is necessary to create favourable conditions as soon as possible for the reconciliation of tax obligations, and almost identical law you withdrew from the congregation procedure five months ago, which we passed. You have made it impossible for the economy to benefit from this law, and you have made it impossible for people to regulate their accumulated tax obligations in the past five months and to free funds necessary for investment and new jobs. In that moment, instead of the interest of the economy, it was more important for you to adopt amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which you now have to change because of the EU's attitudes and the IMF and the World Bank. You waited five months to try to buy cheap political points today in a law that has nothing to do with you or this government, but with the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6339	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6340	Dear People's Parliament, I think we've given 95 percent of your dilemmas many times. But I just want to point to two things here. The first is, this law will be implemented in the territory of all Serbia. It will also be implemented on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and we will have to respect it with supervisory committees and management and there, so don't ask questions as to who will be in favour at the moment, who will be against it. I'm glad the DS here in the Assembly has shown that there will also be depolitisation and professionalization on the territory of Vovojodin. The other thing, it's about some misunderstandings when it comes to the so-called. Tax amnesty law. I've already heard a few times that citizens who paid regular debts, I understand that taxpayers are citizens, but this is about the write-off of taxpayers' debt in the VAT system. It is business entities, their taxes and contributions. So, citizens are just indirectly tied to this law. As far as businessmen are concerned, they are just proposing what we're talking about, just the ones who pay the most regularly as those who are the most legitimate legalists, have reported every single worker, looking for a fight against the gray economy, by giving them the privilege of entering the system because that's the only way they're going to equalise the competitiveness of their products. It's this law that's been made with them, they're giving him full support. So I don't think we have any reason to defend orderly wages from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6341	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic is public.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6342	I'm advocating Article 7 and I point out right now that neither I nor anyone in this coalition is going to be hostage to any controversy, so I don't want to cause controversy with my colleague Đuric, and apparently, since I'm mentioned and because what I said is wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6343	I apologize for the record of whether you said article 107. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6344	Yeah. It's simple to realize that in any case, I didn't want to bring out anything that would have an offensive connotation on anyone, and especially on local self-government units. I simply said that there is a possibility that parties, not units of local self-government, but that some parties will not have enough professional people who can be represented with professional profiles to seek law on supervisory committees, and this does not apply to units of local self-government and citizens. I am pleased that Mr Đuric also realized that it is this professional training as a criterion or professional profiling and that it means to speed up the efficiency of public enterprises' work. I think that's where we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6345	National MP Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6346	On behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I must replicate the criticism of the DS parliamentary group regarding the motivation that is precisely in my opening word and accentuated. It is not true that the pre-election promise of departementisation, i.e. depolitisation of state-owned public enterprises, will not be implemented, on the contrary, this proposed law is the realisation of this pre-election promise. Because I am taxing the entire list of criteria in the direction of competence, expertise, professional and working experience that will have to satisfy the responsibility for managing public-owned enterprises. The directors, who have been elected by the law of the founders, will have to meet the qualification conditions also related to high professional equipment and for work experience and confirmed expertise in the area in question. Just as it will apply to members of the supervisory boards, just as the competition procedure for the selection of the director will be mandatory, just as members of the appointment committee will have to meet the qualification requirements related to expertise. It is a departmentalization because it puts an accent on professional skills and responsibilities, which is the negation of political volunteering. Something I need to confirm, and please take over from my remaining time as a representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6347	Unfortunately, I can't, I can't because we agreed on a college not to be a principle but to take away my word when two minutes are up. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6348	I am reporting on behalf of the parliamentary group since it has been mentioned several times. Criticism can only get legitimacy when it is directed by people who say – here we are doing better, we do better, we know better. But when criticism comes from those who have created and cherished the party and party state for 12 years as the highest value, then I think that criticism is at least inconclusive. As a confirmation of my claim to respond to a previous speaker who, behold, fears that some criminals might be the director of public enterprises, although not in the previous National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind him of only two laws. It's the Law on the Communist Police and the Law on Bankal Managers. In this law, there is an identical member who says -- and a communal officer as a very responsible person in Serbia's cities and bankruptcy managers who match and dispose of assets that are millions of values can be sentenced to prison sentences for up to three months. Please, in a situation where you could create all that, you've implemented that it could be persons who are sentenced to prison for up to three months. On the other hand, as regards the threat to the public information strategy, please, if it hadn't been implemented in this law on public enterprises, what would have happened to the public enterprises founded by local self-government, AP, Serbia from the field of information. Would that mean "Studio B" is no longer a public enterprise? The Vojvodina Radio Television, what would be the status of these companies and these companies? They'd be floating somewhere. What law would apply to such companies, to such companies? Please, I have another sentence. (President: Please make this a short sentence. )The Serbian Progressive Party does not have to be proved, we have also shown, without this bill, that the most responsible places in this country are being delegated to people who are not members of the SNS... (President: I really need to interrupt you right now. Because our quality comes first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6349	Replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6350	Dear Minister Kalanovic, first thing, every law is applied to the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia including Kosovo and Metohija, that is the first thing. The other thing, nobody was talking about the application of the law, but about the political will of the promoter to be able to replace any director anywhere, if that's within its portfolio. I think it's really a very bad move from the government. Your second objection was to the natural persons, Article 2. The law that you have proposed, and you could read the law, says: the taxpayer is a natural person, an entrepreneur, or a legal person who has arrived on 31 October and unpaid obligations on the basis of public income. So it is, after all, a physical face. As for these other criticisms that came from the SNS, we didn't say what you said, Mr. Granny, that criminals would, as you say, come to those places. I have raised suspicions of motivation, that since there is amnesty on the one hand, and on the other hand it is possible for people who have committed crimes to apply to these competitions. I don't know, where did you see the SNS? You may know that, but I'll tell you what else I have. Is it true, I'm not asking you, but in general, that the chief candidate for the Director of the Police is a man from the SNS? Is it true, a rhetorical question, that Dmitar Djurovic, director of the SNS Corridori Company, is the president of the Business Council at the Rakovica Municipal Committee? It runs a 1.2 billion-euro company, "Corridori of Serbia", and its companies are in a blockade for more than seven million dinars and it is now not a party man, it is an expert man, if I understand well. There are a million of these, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6351	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6352	I'm sorry to interrupt, but I think the injured member is 106th in what Mr. Babic was talking about. This session must be about the agenda point. You spoke of radio-diffusive services as an element of this law on RT Vojvodina. As far as I understand the law, this law on public enterprises does not apply to RT Serbia, RT Vojvodina, if what you say is true, then we are in a much bigger problem than we thought. I hope you don't have the ambition to choose that RTS, TVs have supervisory boards, this is how they choose the director and appoint them the Government. You said that in your presentation. So, please just to clarify, does this law also apply to public service? Then it is a much bigger problem, than the objections of media associations and others, which criticise the provision that speaks of public interest in the areas of public information. I understand when it comes to TANJUG, it's not questionable, at least from this point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6353	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6354	My wish is for this assembly to reach a consensus on important laws, which are related to the whole of society, which is why it is my desire for the DS to vote in favour of the tax amnesty law. You said that a significant step would be to look at those who paid regularly and to suggest that those who paid regularly, introduce a rule that VAT returns to them in a shorter period of time, means in 15 days. They were referred to by my objection to you. I'm really sorry I wasn't completely accurate. So, citizens don't have VAT, so they'd be discriminated against here as regular payers, compared to the legal entities we'd sooner return VAT to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6355	Thank you. The word is Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6356	On the same principle as Honorable counterpart Djuric, without reason to give the right to a replica, warned me, and I don't understand whether the police are public enterprises, so the problem is whether and if the director of police, future director of police, will be SNS. I really don't know, but I don't think the police are a public firm. That's one thing. As for Mr Dmitry Djurovic and that burdensome motive, that his two firms are in a blockade because of seven million dinars, and which one of us has no problem with the housing loan, with some kind of burden? If it's Mr. Djurovic's problem, which has seven million dinars of credit, and if it's only burdensome, then I'm going to ask you, and who's the director of Belgrade's water and sewerage? Cvijo Babić, my last namer, vice-president of the DS City Committee, is the same man that DRI applied for because of unconscious business and what they did in public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6357	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6358	I thank Minister Kalanovic, I have just checked my presentation, because that part was written and absolutely refers to the company, that part of the exhibition, but you can't say that the law itself in this part I read doesn't apply to you. As far as these qualifications are concerned, I'm sorry, firstly, because obviously the ruling majority doesn't understand what radio, public service and what public enterprises are, and we've actually heard some kind of political threat through what's been said. Very because it simply removes this doubt. Dispose of the law of the possibility to form public enterprises in the domain of information. If you do not, everyone in this country will have a reasonable doubt that you want to do so and make every media in Serbia "World plus info", and that will be very harmful to the citizens of Serbia. What's for sure, according to the Police Act, which you don't know, unfortunately, can't be a party person's director, it's written by your coalition partner, Ivica Dacic, and I'm sorry you don't know the law. You can't tell me what's wrong with someone from SNS running for Director of Police. It is a problem, or you'll freeze it, as you all freeze when you sit in a chair, and then you defrost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6359	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can talk about who's a member of the party, whether or not the official, etc., I accept that. But in the SNS, it was not up to the president of the Republic to be president of the party. That's what happened to DS. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is the founder of the SNS, its first president, is no longer a member of the SNS, because the president reflects the unity of all RS citizens and cannot be divided by political membership, it was a violation of the Constitution, not the law. When it comes to the police, who can you forbid to be a member of the party? The second thing is if he becomes a official, director of the police, then you have the right to say – he is a member of the SNS and to decide whether he will be a director of the police or a member of the party, and I hope it is not disputed. I have listened to many claims made by my previous speaker and in his first presentation, and what do the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have to do with the directors of public enterprises, where is the founder of local self-government? Absolutely nothing, they're being set up by the founder. One more question, and how do you determine who is first on the list of candidates for director? In alphabetical order? By the shoe count? By what? Maybe by eye color? The Commission has the right to propose a candidate for director, but all those involved in the competition must also propose a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6361	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6362	Yeah. As for the means of public information, that there is no possibility of a public undertaking in the field of public information, then from the moment of entry into force of this law to the privatisation of all the media, whose founders are cities and municipalities, these companies would be outside the law. Secondly, the strategy itself foresees the possibility of regional, public service and is not an imperative privatisation for all existing public enterprises in the field of public information. One complaint from the DS parliamentary group, which is absolutely correct, which is that it is a great pity that there are already elected directors and businesses, to which this law will not be applied, is that they will not enjoy this privilege, but will, by the end of the term of office they were elected to manage these companies, unfortunately, have to go according to the laws adopted by the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6363	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6364	President-in-Office of the Assembly, honourable representatives of the government, fellow MPs, draft law on public enterprises, which is on the agenda today, is a step forward towards reforms promised by the current government. I believe that this is one of the best laws this government has proposed, because despite criticisms brought by some MPs from the former authorities, it will stand in the way of politicising the management of public enterprises. It is clear that the aim of this bill is to departisate and professionalise the work of public enterprises. The main newspaper, this law provides for the abolition of the boards of directors, and under a new proposal for a law on public undertakings as managing bodies, we have directors and supervisory boards, i.e. executive committees are introduced in the two-cameral system. The political parties will no longer be able to host their staff through the boards of directors and supervisors. Public enterprises will no longer be a cake that will be shared among parties, both at the republic and at the local level, as we are used to by parties from the former regime. This bill introduces that directors are elected in a public competition, which is a kind of newspaper, and the conditions that persons must meet to be directors. Also, a kind of professionalisation is carried out by introducing a resolution in case no business results are achieved, or Article 38. The draft law is prescribed when the Director is bound to be authorised, or Article 39, when it can be resolved, discretion granted to the authority responsible for the appointment of the Director. The members of the Supervisory Board will have to meet the conditions laid down in Article 16. The bill, in order to be elected members, among them most significant, that the person appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board must have a higher education, that he is an expert in a particular area and that he has at least three years of experience. This is the way it's given priority to the profession. The criticisms raised at the expense of this bill are not clear, as this bill has long waited to be passed, and the previous government has not dared to bring the same, although it has had the opportunity, while the government has shown its willingness to pass such a bill and to professionalise and departise public enterprises. It is important to stress that the World Bank is satisfied with such a proposal for a law on public enterprises, which will improve and modernise governance within public enterprises. The way in which public enterprises were managed in the previous period has brought many founders to an unfavourable position all because of inadequate and unprofessional management. Public enterprises have become the site of corruption and crime, which is most viewed through public procurement procedures, which will be prevented by introducing a public and labour control institute. The SNS will support this proposal for a law on public enterprises, and I urge you to all vote for this law in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6365	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6366	Mr. President, you've injured Article 107 by not giving me the right to a replica and allowing certain interpretations here, which are contrary to the truth, and we haven't been given the opportunity to explain. So, I have to say that Mr. Arsic said that what directors have to do with relationships, I'll remind you, with the directors of public enterprises at the bar, if I'm not mistaken. They have connections because they can initiate the shift of anyone anywhere at any time, which means they put pressure directly on these people and then they put it all in their pocket. That's what you have to say. It's a notorious thing. If anyone thinks otherwise, they can't say it has nothing to do with it. Read the law. It's full of holes, it's full of defects. Either correct them through the amendments, which we will support, or withdraw, because I see that you disagree with each other about what this law should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6367	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6368	Gentlemen of the now ruling coalition or, as you say, the ruling regime, when you say so, well imagine who did this ruling regime. In the previous assembly, we had slightly less than 60 MPs. As you know, the parliamentary majority is 126. True, some of them were on our list, and they wouldn't have crossed the censorship, but that's our problem. But most of it was the current coalition. When you say the former regime, look at your front half or the opposite part of the hall where SPS MPs, G 17, etc., Mr Babic, sit down and see the minister who sat down in the previous session. You're making a lot of lies. Now you have talked about information, about strategy, and in the previous two governments your ministers have acted and represented information through the ministries led by both Mr Bradic and Mr Markovic. Whatever significant area you're headed to, you're seeing your coalition partners. So, DS did have a prime minister. She couldn't complete the reforms just because of the law and the bill that she now puts on the agenda your part of the coalition, which you support and which in any way do not bring any change and departmentation, but cite for the next period of particulation, partocracy. Now we see that there won't be a problem and that the Director of the Police is a party official.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6369	The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6370	I would ask MPs to speak what is true, not to put other words in some's mouth. Anyone under the constitution can be a member of the political party until he becomes a public function carrier that is incompatible with membership in the political party. Don't break the Constitution. We can write in the law that he hasn't been a member of any political party in the last five years. Do you think it'll pass in the Constitutional Court? This article 37 is misread because it refers to public enterprises where it is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It has nothing to do with public enterprises where the founder is local self-government. The minister responsible for the affairs of local self-government can replace any director of a public enterprise in Serbia? That's impossible. It's local self-government. It does not say in the law, it refers only to public enterprises where the founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are competent resolution ministers. I would ask my fellow MPs not to mix those two things. Local self-governments have their place in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia cannot leave outside constitutional jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6371	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6372	Mr. President, with all due respect, the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2), have been violated. The previous speaker, I don't mean a colleague of Arsic's, in any case, is permanently speaking to another MP. You need to warn him and take away his word, because it's not allowed under the Rules of Procedure. In one thing, I'll thank you, and that's because he gave me the opportunity to answer one very important thing, which is that the Director of Police, and the police are not a public firm and do not apply this law to the police, will be elected by law and will not be a member of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6373	Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6374	Article 107 is injured. Mr. Arsic really insults dignity and the National Assembly and all of us as MPs, reasonable and grown-up people. In the proposal for a law on public undertakings under the marginal title, the termination of the term of office does not say the termination of the term of office of director of the Republic public undertakings.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6375	Mr. Guric, I will not allow you to abuse. I'm taking your word. Mr. Kasalovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6376	Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104(2). In fact, shortly before, Mr. Janko Veselinovic was granted the right to a replica with the pretext that the DS was repeatedly mentioned. Article 104, paragraph 2 literally states that if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to a parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. Mr. Vesenovic is not even president of the parliamentary group, and I don't think he's an authorised representative either. Obviously we have been listening here all the time to speculation about a subject that is very important, about laws that are very important from MPs who really overestimate that these are system laws that will bring much good to the Republic of Serbia, and in this way as this session takes place and how some MPs are trying to direct this debate, obviously that is not their goal. That's why I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure consistently.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6377	I think I have fully respected the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Veselinović is an authorised representative of the DS on this agenda point and on behalf of the DS he can represent. On this basis, he has the right to receive the right to replica when the DS parliamentary group is mentioned and he has used his right to do so. The next person registered for the word is MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6378	Did I get my word? I ask you to calm the ambassadors who receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6379	I ask all MPs to remember that the order and implementation of decisions at the session of the National Assembly, the old president of the National Assembly. Please make it possible for the MP to be able to speak in peace. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6380	Ladies and gentlemen, we have eight draft laws ahead of us, and the fact is that we are considering all eight laws by emergency procedure even though there were all conditions to be considered in the regular procedure. I think it's a bad practice in the National Assembly, that in this conference of 70 laws and other acts, about 60 were considered by an emergency procedure. If 60 out of 70 are considered by emergency procedure, not by regular procedure, it is bad for the reputation of our highest body representative and holder of constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. I think it's bad for our ID, both in the country and in the environment. Especially in the way of European integration. With regard to some of these laws, I will look back only with a few words. As regards the proposal for a conditional law in the write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, it would be necessary to adjust certain dates, but should also be accompanied consistently by the use of certain terms which are clear in other regulations, and in particular by the accounting of how to reward the orderly payments. With regard to the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, I only ask – does a Serbian citizen have the right to open a foreign foreign exchange account under this law or not? I'm going to take a special look at two bill proposals. This is about the deadlines for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions and the proposal for a law on public undertakings. We can believe that there are good intentions of the government behind the proposed law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions. However, an analysis of the bill shows that there are a number of ambiguities, even provisions that are contrary. It is nice that the state undertakes to pay its obligations in commercial transactions within 45 days, or within the time limit set in the draft law, but it does not prevent the whole public sector from paying its obligations immediately. For the purposes of equating all creditors who have claims from the state or the public sector, it is fair to supplement the law by prescribing that the same deadlines apply to all the obligations of the State and not only to the obligations of commercial transactions. Is it not more important to set payment deadlines and any commitments that have been made even in court judgments, and practice shows that obligations are paid after a long wait, while citizens' rights are compromised. There are amendments in that direction, but we will discuss this in detail. I have been particularly interested in the proposed anti-constitutional way of contracting in commercial transactions. For example, when two economic operators contract payments within a period of 60 days, the consequences can be horrendous. For example, for a contracted job worth 2,000 dinars, if payment is made in accordance with a contract signed for payment by three months after 62 days of service, the fee for late payment shall be 20,000 dinars. Violent penalties are prescribed between 5,000 and 2 million dinars, respectively. That's what the bill says. Attention should be paid to the issue of respect for Article 82. The Constitution, which speaks of market economy, open and free market, freedom of entrepreneurship, independence of economic operators. The provisions of the bill are also contrary to the Law on Liabilities and Article 516. The laws on bond relations and contradictions are with EU directives 7/11. I don't think it's going to be possible to protect small businesses with dragon penalties, but by strictly applying the anti-monopol law and other regulations. The discussion so far said that, for example, trade chains should be obliged to pay no later than 60 days of obligation. It's not all the same position. For example, if bakeries deliver bread with large trade chains, that bread is sold for one or two days. If this is going to be paid in seven days, I think it's much fairer than the bill says for 60 days. So the bill doesn't achieve the protection of those where we say it applies to them. There are many things about the indeterminateness of this law, but I would now like to say a few words about what is causing special attention, which is the proposal of the Law on Public Enterprises. I believe that the proposed law does not allow the departementisation or depolitisation of public enterprises. It may have been intentional, but the proposed text of the law doesn't go that way. In addition to the fact that the law itself is unclear, inconsistencies, contradictory, technically I find insufficiently written, I believe there is a lot of inconsistencies. I would just point out that there is a contradiction between members 38 and 39. The proposal for a law as to whether if the Director has been elected before the term of office, if, during the period of the term of office, he or she is legally sentenced to probation or unconditional imprisonment, he or she will be dismissed by one member, according to another member. Where's the truth, where's what we want? Whether in Article 38 or Article 39. In Article 37, regardless of the intention that some members of the ruling coalition here have made a proposal to dismiss the director of a public enterprise whose founder is the Government or authority has a Government, that the minister may propose a resolution there. In article 37, it says -- a proposal to resolve the director of a public enterprise, does not say at what level. It may be submitted by the Supervisory Board of Public Enterprise as well as by the Ministry responsible for the area of activity from which a public undertaking is established. If there are no amendments, the ministry has these powers. The second thing, article 27 says that the president and members of the commission who are to elect a director, says – the president and members of the commission cannot be MPs, council members and autonomous province or the Assembly of Local Self-Government, nor appointed persons in the bodies of the state administration, bodies of the Autonomous Province, local self-government... But ministers can. So ministers can. I don't see why the National Assembly should vote that ministers can, and that MPs can't, or that someone else can or can't. I may speak too loudly, I apologize, I'll try to be quiet, but my conscience is clear, so I speak loudly. With regard to everything that is proposed in public enterprises in this proposal for a law on public enterprises, I must also point to certain inconsistencies. I ask the Government's representative, in article 67, what does the property of a public enterprise mean by greater value? This concept – the property of a public enterprise is of greater value, with all my efforts I have not been able to find. I'm done. It's in article 470. The law on companies terms – acquisition and availability of large value assets, where 30% are predicted in relation to certain balance sheet items, but this term used in the law does not clearly correspond with other terms. Let's get this sorted out. Finally, let's explain to me how this voluntary organisation of cities and municipalities, I repeat, voluntary where not all or not have to be local self-government, regardless of how highly I feel about the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, but it is a voluntary organisation, the law introduces public powers, that they propose members of the Commission and local self-governments that are not members of the Permanent Conference of Cities, and that voluntary organisation is also given jurisdiction to commissions at the level of territorial autonomy. We could have transferred some of these powers to both Sinod or Meshihat, to any other organization, to have the same connection, or not to territorial autonomy. Let us finally start to deal responsibly with all forms of organization, regardless of whether they are voluntary, whether they are based by law, specifically I mean certain proposals that have been found in the procedure in this Assembly, specifically I mean a large system that currently exists, which is a chamber system that we need to see, that we are not playing, but by the end of the year to fix what to fix, not to break up, if we have broken down the system of the SDK and the system of the Institute of Accounting and Payment, whether we should play with every system that we manage to build up. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to consider all the amendments that have been tabled, to try to remove what is wrong, to fix what is possible, and especially to remove what is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6381	Mr Branislav Mitrovica is not here. The word is Mr. Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6382	Dear Minister, dear colleagues, in this short time, I will look back on only one proposal to amend and supplement the law, I mean the Law on Privatisation, something about which, at this moment and today's debate, was or was not, and if there were, there were many words. One such important act that we are about to adopt today is finally limiting something called restructuring of companies that are in the privatisation process or failed or that have been annulled. Finally, we come up with a date that is limited to 30 June 2014 which I believe is an extremely fast deadline and that finally all privatisations in Serbia are one way that suits the citizens and ends. Why did I just choose to talk about this? Obviously, there were a lot of words about public enterprises, distribution of prey and boards of directors and boards of directors, but I am interested in being the chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of Citizens, several thousand for three years, there were complaints of citizens, of which 80% of all these complaints from various associations, small shareholders, cooperatives, trade unions, referred to privatisation. I think that's one big problem facing this society, and I hope that this move on a limited deadline when the Serbian government plans to complete the restructuring process finally brings in a large number of citizens and show that the government of Serbia and the state thinks about its workers and citizens who are facing the privatisation process, and not a small number of times they have been poor characteristics when it comes to the privatisation process itself. I would especially point out the impact here, the role of the Privatisation Agency, which is in many cases, I have to admit and to be open, I have also acted on these Assembly committees and on us as MPs, simply blatantly, you couldn't get any information from the Privatisation Agency, because it simply didn't exist as a possibility that you could talk to someone, even if it was an argument that made sense. In any case, I believe that by this date that is in this law, and one of the shortest laws that has come to the Assembly, there are only two members, simply put, will be completed and the process of restructuring companies and will finally know what has been sold, and what has not been sold, what is returned to the state, what will be sold again, and for workers and citizens interested in this matter, how much a peaceful dream for the future of them and their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6383	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6384	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the shortness of time and since there are more registered speakers from the DS after me, I will only talk about one law, although there is room for criticism about other laws, but I will talk about the Law on the Amendments of the Law on Privatisation which my predecessor also spoke of and who said that there was not much talk about a very important law, I mean this one. I agree with him, and that's why I'm going to say a few words about this law. Yesterday in the opening statement, the minister cited the reasons why the company restructuring process should be completed by 30 June of next year, and there is not much to be added and all the speakers who talked about it also agreed that it should be done by that date and I have no dilemma that it should be done again, for reasons that have been said here many times and I would not repeat them. I would not agree with one finding of the minister, which is that the adoption of this law will associate the directors and managements of the enterprises in restructuring, to work faster and better. I know a lot of directors who work in enterprises that are in restructuring, very well working, do their best to secure salaries, because the problem is in these companies to pay the salary, come first in the month, and there's no pay. The problem's on the other side. So restructure companies have lost their markets, restructure companies have outdated technology, these companies have lost the best personnel to work in companies where wages are better, where conditions are better and these are the reasons why companies in restructuring cannot achieve desired results. I am sure that most of these companies will not be able to leave the crisis until 2014, which means that these companies will go bankrupt, i.e. they will be liquidated. It's a process that has to happen. I'm more interested in what the minister didn't talk about yesterday and we haven't heard a clear plan of what's going to happen to 50,000 workers who are currently working in these companies. The answer has not been received and I hope that the government has a clear plan and a clear vision of what it will do with 50,000 people who will join the army of the unemployed in the state of Serbia. Now I will say something about the city I come from, since, unfortunately, the town of Kruševac was an industrial centre in the old Yugoslavia, in the SFRY, and today because of the transition, because of the poor privatisations it is far from that image, but I hope that the leadership of Kruševac and the government has a way and a desire to restore that image to the town of Kruševec. At this point in Krusevec, there are as many as seven restructure companies, and I will say because of the citizens of Krusevec who are companies. It is the 14th of October, with 1,700 workers, Župa, Branko Perišić, it is the mill-peker industry, oil factory, oil factory, modern home and NIP Victory. What's important is these seven companies employ over three thousand people. Imagine that in 2014, all these companies go bankrupt, another three thousand people and Kruševac won't exist. A pear, unless something is done and these companies can't, unfortunately, get out of the crisis themselves, because if they could, they would have done it by now. I repeat, I am interested in what the government is planning to do with the town of Krusevc, but also with others in central Serbia, because most of these firms in restructuring are currently in central Serbia? What's going to happen from regional development, you're the Minister of Regional Development, if the companies go out? Of course that job won't do anything. In addition to October 14th, the restructuring process in these companies has just arisen due to poor privatisation. The company Trajal with two thousand employees, which was also poorly privatised and had no intervention by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in May this year, would have already been on the street, as it was opened before the bankruptcy procedure. Thanks to the 22m-euro conversion, Trayal workers survived. As long as we can see. What I want to potential, and what is very important, I say again for the citizens of Kruševec, because I am their representative, all these controversial privatisations were made in the period from February 2004 to May 2007. So, at a time when DS was both republican and local, it was in opposition and cannot possibly be responsible for the privatization carried out. I will ask whether Minister Dinkic or Deputy Prime Minister Vukic to examine these privatisations too and to see who is responsible for such bad privatisations that are good companies such as "Fam" have led to ruin. I will remind you that "Fam" is a company that after restructuring, which is valid for the mill and bakery industry "Branko Perisic", which works very well and regularly pay salaries. Fam, unlike those companies I was talking about having out-of-date technology, they don't have personnel, Fam has it all, and good technology, has a market, which is also very important and important and has good personnel. Fam was ruined because the previous owner owed Fam 30m euros to save his other firms. Fam workers have nothing to do with it, and I don't think the state can let Fam go bankrupt, because, realistically, in a year and a half, they can't make 30m euros out of profits. The same is true of the dairy industry Branko Perisic, which today works hard, which regularly pays salaries, but still has several million debts made by the previous owner and which cannot return from the profit of Branko Perisic. I could still talk, but it's a little time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6385	Thank you. The word is Mrs Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6386	Dear President of the Assembly, a respected minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Priboj, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, will refer to the Law on Public Enterprises, refer to the Law on Privatisation and refer to the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Public enterprises are designed to carry out strategic activities in the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. Respected citizens of Serbia, works of general interest, which are set out in this law, are activities in the fields of production and distribution of electricity, in the fields of production and processing of oil, in the fields of research, production, transport, distribution of natural and liquid gas, in the areas of nuclear management, in the area of the issue of "Official Messenger", in the area of information, in the area of use and promotion of goods of general interest, such as roads, water, forests, spas, in the field of waste management, in the area of municipal services. Of course, the founder of public enterprises can be the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Government as well as the bodies that are established as founders by the Statute of the AP and the Statute of local self-government, which are largely the parliaments of autonomous provinces and the assembly of local self-government. The law on public enterprises is significant in several segments. The most important segment is the introduction of professionalisation and responsibilities in the management of both directors and members of the Supervisory Board. The second significant segment of this law is the establishment of responsibilities, of course, through the introduction of a re-registration institute, both directors and supervisory board. Another segment that is very important is transparency in work. What does transparency mean in the work of public enterprises? Transparency in the work of public enterprises implies that public undertakings are obliged, in accordance with the law, to deliver a business programme for the following year to the founder by 1 December of the current year. The program is considered adopted only when consent is given to the founder. Of course, the business program isn't expensive, it's not decry, it's not a set of good wishes. The Public Business Programme should also contain both significant elements, and such elements relating to politics, company revenues, projected expenditure by opposition, company profit allocation policy, company loss policy, the criteria set out specifically for the distribution of aid, the criteria set out for compensation to members of the Supervisory and Management Board, the criteria specified for propaganda, the criteria specified for sport activities. Of course, public companies' plans, i.e. public enterprises' programmes, must be consistent with the government's policy, especially in the part relating to the price of municipal services and in the part of profit and employment. They must be in line with the government's projected policy in part of prices and services, for reasons that certain parts of the Serbian state's territory would not pay, i.e. certain local self-governments pay disproportionately high prices for municipal services. As far as the public is concerned, in the selection of directors, of course, the ministry as the authority responsible for calling a competition for the selection of directors, on the website is obliged to publish conditions for the appointment of directors, and the competition is also required to be published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, in the "Official List" of Local Self-Government as well as in one year which are readable, or available in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Another mechanism being introduced is the three-month reporting mechanism, as public enterprises are legally obliged to report to the competent ministries, and this, their resolution ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, on the coherence of projected and realised activities. Every public enterprise, every local self-government and every ministry, if there was one project, and certainly there was, where they applied for EU funds, they certainly understand these procedures, because no one can give money and no one can spend the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia without having feedback and no control mechanisms. Public enterprises are also required to submit monthly reports to the Ministry of Finance on the deadlines for meeting their obligations to other economic operators. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that every law, including the Law on Public Enterprises, is a living organism, a living organism founded in reality, but that as a living organism and as living tissue, changes are made possible, and in terms of modernising the law itself, so that laws, as has been the case so far, would not remain an empty letter on paper. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that professionals, highly educated professional staff, doctors of science, masters of science and people with academic education with at least four years of university education are the most important potential in the Republic of Serbia, and certainly these are criteria concerning members of the Supervisory Board, but also the criteria relating to the selection of public enterprise directors. Control of the financial management of the public enterprise is a condition for reducing corruption and corruption in public enterprises, and the fight against corruption is a strategic definition of SNS. The introduction of procedures, the establishment of clear rules certainly to contribute to the democracies of every society, including the democratisation of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of clear procedures in this regard also contributes to business, as these are businesses that provide services of vital importance to citizens of Serbia. The second law I want to refer to is the Privatisation Act. This law is significant with two aspects. We all know that uncertainty is the worst ally in the business business of each company, and uncertainty is also a bad ally for many employees working in the restructuring process. The law is significant in this respect, which determines the time when forced collection is not possible, i.e. forced demand for money and leaves the possibility for enterprises to restructure by that deadline, which is June 2014, to find the possibility of survival through finding a strategic partner or in some other way. Since I come from Priboj, I must again appeal to the Minister of Finance and Industry, who is not here, and you will certainly, Madam Minister, pass it on to him. The car factory in Priboj is one of the enterprises in the restructuring process. I expect that FAP management in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and Business will find a strategic partner that the Priboj gates, as a city, would not be closed forever. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, it is significant from the aspect of legal certainty, so-called composite companies, i.e. companies that have not yet separated life insurance and non-life insurance. They were obliged to provide proof of the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance to the National Bank of Serbia by 31 December this year. However, that deadline shall be extended until 31 December 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6387	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6388	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to refer to the two draft laws we're discussing at this very moment. One is the draft law on settlement deadlines for commercial transactions. The second is the Law on Public Enterprises. What I'm interested in is who you're passing this law on the settlement of monetary liabilities. Is that the law that the state makes for itself? It's a well-known thing that the state is the biggest debtor. Other economic operators shall regulate their relationship with each other by contracts, and in those contracts they shall define payment deadlines. I don't understand why the state is proposing this for itself. How and in what way does the state in general come into trouble with the reconciliation of its obligations? If we adopted the Republic of Serbia's budget the other day where the plan and programme of work of our administration is clearly defined in the next year, then how can it happen that our public enterprises and business creditors, first of all in the infrastructure, are in a situation that they cannot settle these obligations? Five or six years ago, we had this principle established. You then made this payment model, and then the biggest debtor in the Republic of Serbia was the Directorate for Construction, i.e. the Public Enterprise of the Ways of Serbia, where you settled your debts towards contractors based on short-term placements through privileged commercial banks. Then you paid a few dozen billion to construction companies in the Republic of Serbia through which they paid huge interest depending on the length of the period on which they received certain funds. Are you trying to do the same thing with this again? That's the question. What is the intention of this law? Why do you need to do this yourself? Is the state that brought the budget, as the most important act, not responsible for what it did? That's one serious question. We've brought our construction operation into an entirely unequal position by this process. The consequences of this were that our largest construction company, the Bridge, had come into a situation that could not have charged its claim from the Road Directorate, it was disqualified in the business of building the Beška Bridge. That job was entrusted to the Alpini for six million euros more than the Bridge did, and the Bridge was a subcontractor at the job. Is that how it works? Then you led, Mrs. Kalanovic, your political party led the Ministry of Finance. That is when the payment form and the way in which the Serbian state's obligations work was established. Is that a model again, a mechanism that is being established to reconcile the government's obligations? That's a question - for whom do we pass this law? This is a populist law that's just advertising. There's a bond law. There are many more elements within our legislative system that define these things. I don't understand what this is all about, except for some pulsism or pointing to some of the problems it doesn't have. Let the state settle its obligations according to the work done. If someone signed the situation in a timely fashion, did the work, there are mechanisms of control, that money exists in the budget, and I don't see where the problem arises. In which way I need special arrangements to arrange that the state has to pay for what someone did. In these other segments, where there are interrelationships, businesses, they edit their jobs by mutual agreements. Someone's looking for something, someone's offering something. Based on these relationships they have established, someone will pay or try to make their claim in court or in some other systems. I don't understand what the intention is, do I? The same way this justification was done by the restructuring companies. Please, gentlemen, the restructuring companies have been created as a result of the annulled privatisations. The state received some money from these privatisations. Why didn't you build a fund to help these companies get on their feet and that those who have some potential can work today? Are you contrary to the views expressed by Goran Knezevic, the agriculture minister, and Minister Dinkic, who says those enterprises that are in restructuring from agriculture will come into a situation that, if they have not settled their obligations, they put them back into some other privatisation processes. The agriculture minister says it will help PIC Vienna write off debts or reprogramme debts for renting agricultural state land. Make arrangements within you what your intentions are. It's one serious resource. There are hundreds of people working there. You can't behave like this that each of you uses what he likes or doesn't like or depends on who performs political function in that part of where it comes from. The second law I want to refer to is the Law on Public Enterprises. He doesn't understand what the papers in this law are, about public utility companies. And today the directors are elected on the basis of the competition. The public in the work, plan and programme of works of public utility companies is being adopted in each assembly, it is being discussed. I don't see the point of what you're doing. What's new about that? If you want to run social policy through municipal businesses, then you're putting them in serious trouble. If you want the heat not to be losers, then don't edit prices with the Government of the Republic of Serbia's memorandum how much it will cost the services provided by local public utility companies. You subsidize "Serbiagas", give them money so they can deliver on favourable conditions gas to local heats and then it won't be ballast to all citizens. Not all citizens use the remote heating system. Why should this be the obligation of all citizens on the territory of a local self-government where heat exists? Don't run social policy through public utility companies. Do not run a social policy by saying that the Capital Investment Fund, local self-government should address the Government for unsettled obligations, because the Republic Government did not transfer to the province's debt budget. You'll guarantee the funds in two years. Pay off what it is to the AP Vojvodina, pay off the debts made, not through the budget of local self-government to run social policy by reducing the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Not all social policies can be broken on local self-government. Local self-government in Serbia spent 300-400 billion and 700-800 billion spent the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're trying through local self-government to make some kind of social policy. Every time you try to break something through local self-government, and you've advocated deparation, decentralisation, and I don't know what kind of flossules you've used to get into a situation that we have a completely opposite process today. This corporate governance mechanism was established in 2003. Esnaf, my vertical, I'm in charge of it. Now you're trying to do that with utility companies, not only these national ones, they're the government's national problem and I don't want to discuss it, but local self-government is the problem. Why are you getting into it? Another thing, if you want them to have economic conditions of business, then let's go towards making social cards, so that those people below the poverty line can get into a situation that they can have according to privileged conditions of water, heat energy and all that is. This is how you try to make one universal law, not seeing specifics at all. What are the effects of that? We have pulsism – here, we will now transparently. The directors are still elected in public enterprises and in a bar at the competition. The public in the paper, that's the paper in the law? So each of them has an argument in the congregation. You yourself talked about a DRI that controls depending on which local self-government and will likely have the capacity to cover everything. I don't see fear of ourselves. Who do you bring these laws for? For yourself? It's just that there's too much that doesn't make sense and too much is not applicable. By passing these laws, you're putting some of the previous good legal solutions out of force. What you're planning with the budget, you either honor it, or the funds are being spent unintentioned, and then it's not going for the first and second states, but it's going for the local and untegorized roads. Is that how you make that hole in the budget or how? These are very serious questions, so that we can come into a situation here today to discuss a law that the state makes for itself, so that the state itself can make itself pay for what she ordered someone to do to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6389	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6390	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable for the citizens of Serbia to discuss such a large number of laws within one item of the agenda, and the laws under emergency procedure. It's not clear why we have an emergency procedure on all these laws. Citizens are having a hard time following this debate because every MP is talking about another law that's on the agenda. I suggest that in the future, when we determine the agenda and the way it works, we do it differently. I'll talk about the Public Business Act. It is nice and very commendable for the government of the Republic of Serbia that it wants to professionalise, departize and introduce modern management methods in public enterprises. Indeed, after the experience that Serbian citizens have, and each of us knows of at least one example of a public enterprise where the way of managing party personnel has led to poor staff policies, poor business policies, etc. who could be against departmentisation, against the intention of professionalising the management of public enterprises? Nobody. And we, as DS in the opposition, would support such a law, if it really meant such an effect. My predecessors spoke of a number of provisions that question these goals, and I will mention only some. First of all, the provisions of this law are very contradictory, very vague and in the very way that this law is conceived speak in favour of the argument that a further rooting of particisation and party governance in public enterprises is actually clouded. First of all, let's look at the conditions that have been defined to make someone a director or a member of the Supervisory Board. It is said that there should be, for example, higher education, so that he can be a doctor of science, master, master or have a degree in elementary studies. It's quite a range in education. Of course, only for those public enterprises whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It says how vague the law itself is. True, it also predicts that the founder can set other criteria, but this is rather vague and the question arises why do we define conditions in this way? As for the intention to professionalise the management of public enterprises, do we really think, when we ask ourselves honestly, that the fact that a party member puts his party function in some state of rest, which is nowhere defined, by any law, is not known what is doing party function in a standstill, that it really means someone's independence? It is not a question of whether he will participate in party bodies whose member he is, but whether the party will have an impact on his decision. That's the essential question. When we say that someone should put their party function in a state of rest, we really cannot believe that he will be out of the reach of the party affecting his decisions. Second question on the independence of the director of public enterprises. The bill stipulates that its stimulation, which is additional income, additional compensation for its work, will be decided by the government. Do we really think that the director of a public enterprise can then be independent and will lead a serious business policy, that he will not make an effort to love the government as much as possible, when his interest, the direct benefit he needs to receive, monetary stimulation, depends on the government's decision? When we talk about this committee of appointments, which is highly praised as an independent body, an independent commission, we know what its composition is and that two members for each individual appointment are actually determined by the Government, or they can be from the Government, because it is said that a member of a committee of appointments in a public enterprise whose founder is Republika Srpska can be a MP, can't be a committee member, can't be appointed a person in the bodies of the state administration, but can be a minister, can be a state secretary. This means that members of the appointment committee can directly be representatives of the government. They will propose candidates to the ministry based on a public competition, which the commission believes met the criteria for the position of director of a public enterprise. So, to avoid confusion, it is not the committee for appointments that makes the decision, but it is the committee for appointments that creates only the ranking list, those who have met the criteria, and then further decides the competent ministry, i.e. the founder. In the end, executive directors, it is one newspaper that presents itself as a significant newspaper, but it is actually a future haven for religious party personnel and thus continues to be rooted in even the multiparty management of public enterprises, because it is decadent and said that executive directors must be in a working relationship with a public company. These few provisions, which I have set out, clearly states that this law does not contain any clear mechanisms that would lead to departisation, to the professionalisation of public enterprises and the main arguments used by the Government are public competition and the abolition of boards and their replacement to supervisory committees, and in fact they are no newspaper, when mechanisms for the application of a concrete procedure are in fact both vague and contradictory and speak very clearly that the division will continue to exist as a very rooted practice. I think our country's citizens expected much more from the announcement of the Law on Public Enterprises, a team before they took into account the promises that have been made in the election campaign by many parties now in the Government of the Republic of Serbia very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6391	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6392	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the Honored Representatives of the Government, listening in these two days to a debate on the proposal for a law on public enterprises, as well as a large number of MPs who have taken part in this debate certainly confirm the importance and interest of this law. If it comes from the assumption that the basic reasons for the adoption of this law and such a law lie in the need of professionalising the work of public enterprises, and above all by hiring professionals in the management of jobs, as well as ensuring a high degree of transparency in the work, two important conditions for better business of public enterprises are provided. I don't think there are any more dilemmas in this country that are businesses that have been the generator of the greatest losses and where corruption and crime have moved in like their own house, where it was necessary to introduce some order. In order for any order, whatever, or something to be done, is not enough just to want, but must be regulated by law, but also the application of the law to control. If the full application of this law is achieved, then we are left with only one mistake called a human factor, and it is known whose jurisdiction it is in further action. What is very surprising is that this law is mostly commented on in the part relating to the public competition obligation on the basis of which the directors will be appointed, and I think it is important to point out the following. Professionalization of management is not only introduced through the way the director is appointed, but also through the introduction of a resolution institute. It is clear that the increased level of responsibility also increases the necessity of professionalism, i.e. professionalism, above all, at least with responsible authorities. The introduction of a control mechanism through the obligation of an audit committee to prescrib the procedure and to control the way in which businesses are managed, would prevent what has been possible so far, and that is that no one is responding to anything. This law also introduces the regulatory and control functions of the Government, but also the control function of the public. The control function of the public, i.e. citizens, is introduced by the obligation of all public enterprises to publicly publish their programmes, as well as a report on business. It is also important, and by applying this law, that the government's control function, which is viewed in a manner and measures to prevent certain parts of the state from being in a significantly irregular position because of unrealistically high municipal services. I appreciate that, in my presentation, I have probably stated something that my fellow MPs have already said in their address, but my intention was not to comment on some parts of the law to strengthen the impression of the necessity of its adoption, but to send a clear message to Serbian citizens that this government is seriously accessing the problem that this country and its citizens face on a daily basis. In the end, the application of this law will cease to apply one rule, a rule which is often and in a comical way spoken and persuaded among citizens, which is the rule of three written envelopes that the old director leaves in the amanet of the new director after the term of office. I won't tell the whole story, but I have to tell the last sentence, and it's like this: when you open the third envelope, read it, it's very important to you, and in the third envelope it says, write three envelopes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6393	Thank you. In the words of the People's Parliament, Theodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6394	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Minister, distinguished fellow MPs, today when we talk about a united debate, about a set of laws, then we can most clearly look at a few paradoxes. Although there was little time, the laws are by emergency procedure, but by careful reading we can see that we have before us a law that regulates tight interest and where it is called, practically in an explanation, that this law is adopted under the Constitutional Court Decision, which is disputed, with the other constitutionality of the provision, but also the opposite of the Law on Liabilities. At the same time, we have a second law in front of us, which regulates the reconciliation of monetary obligations and the setting of deadlines that we are directly against the same law on bond relations, and in a completely different way we regulate, i.e. we influence the freedom to negotiate between economic operators and we normally touch the provisions of the Constitution which also speaks of that freedom. So it's very strange that at one session in a united debate, in the same set of laws on the one hand to what we call on, on the other hand we immediately violate. What was most important to everyone in this set of laws is certainly the Law on Public Enterprises, and I'm just going to say a few words about it. So, although we had great doubts just by improving the election of directors in public enterprises, today in the discussion when we are told that a commission that will help in the election and which we suspected, but the ruling coalition has convinced us that it will be the real commissions that will count, put the candidates together by the number of shoes, then we must really say that you have encouraged us very much. It is very interesting what has been avoided or not said in today's debate, in order not to repeat other things, is the way the Law on Public Enterprises prevents the actual implementation of the Budget Law. It's probably the only example in the world, and there's probably no more. So, in addition to the way in which the budget is implemented, that means, the commitment that we establish in the budget, then the Law on Public Enterprises, we're actually suspending the implementation of the budget. It's about rigorous, rigid penalties for local self-government, if a public enterprise doesn't bring in a program, does not perform its programming obligations or does not pay within the deadlines. So, not only are the sanctions directed at these public enterprises, but they're aimed at local self-government. Such sanctions are inappropriate, can lead to complete collapse in certain environments, especially in those environments that are not strong enough and do not have their original incomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6395	Mrs. Vlahovic, just to tell you that the time has passed for your parliamentary group. So please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6396	So, in this discussion, it's not the Fund for Development Act, it's about the Development Fund Act, because the Minister is there, I would just draw attention to the need for precisely regional development to take care of the creation of the foundations of certain institutions that would work at regional level, to support the development of the economy. So there's no legal basis for microcredit, there's no legal basis for certain funds and foundations that aren't private in the region. That's what I'd like to ask if it could get in the process soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6397	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6398	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, there has been an increase in tone here today in the discussions of opposition MPs, although the topic is quite decent, new laws in several areas, which bring well-being, above all the budget that we adopted the other day, but there is no scale, it has to be criticised, and we have to say how things stand. I'd like to say a few sentences, first of all, on the draft law on time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions and on the proposal for a law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt. This is where the financial discipline returns. What was found by coming to power of this government and this parliamentary bloc, it was that in public enterprises, you could only do business with them on condition that they would pay you for their obligations to you within 200 days. It was done by some Serbian tycoons, and so we poor, humble and ordinary people had to share this life with some, lend them 200 days each, and they flew around the world, rode in yachts, and thought that the Serbian was too rich, which is why they are bothered by this law. He says, 45 to 60 days. State 45, and in the last transactions between legal entities, 60 days. What does that mean? This means that they will have to settle their obligations quickly, pay off their debts and cut short their travels around the world. It's not bad. There's a car to drive around in Serbia. There's a lot to see. When it comes to the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, several advantages are given to this law. First, it accelerates the payment of tax obligations, speeds up the dynamics of public revenue collection, speeds up the dynamics of payment of obligations among those taxpayers who have the conditions to do so. Second, erasing blocks from their accounts, so a lot of things. First, to be able to communicate with banks, to pay their commitments, to collect incomes unpaid, unfactured claims, etc. A number of small businesses and crafts actions will be able to apply to credit banks, as they will not have the criterion of blocking an account, which prevents them from applying for credit. In this way, a business cycle will be launched in a number of small businesses and businesses and a return point will be placed on products, goods, services, etc., what is important. Of course, the third thing will create a new environment, a favourable environment. The state has decided to cut things this way. It's an inheritance, please. One is the legacy of some time we've been through. This is where the tycoons were patted behind their backs to behave like that, because when public enterprises were paid for 200 days, then they could pay for 200 days. If you can supply wholesalers, if you want to be a supplier of wholesalers, then you can only ask someone to pay you after six months, or ask them to pay you earlier with goods, which he determines, at the price he says. So your product was much lower than your price. It's gone, you're simply going to charge for that product and that creation you have in your possession and where you're creative. This is the difference between this regulation and this other regulation that facilitates payment of tax obligations. As far as the proposal for a law on public enterprises is concerned, there is only a great deal of panic. It's just, a good part of the economy that was related to DS policy, you know, we have a lot of businesses, small businesses, even some state services, where you can only be employed on condition that you were a member of the DS. For example, municipal police officers had to be employed, and there you say -- it could be a communal officer who's been punished for up to three months in prison, which gives him handcuffs and pendricks and can bring him in and punish him. I guess he's used to the procedure that's been applied to him. The term "department" here is being misused in a pervasive sense, in order to avoid the shift of personnel now in public enterprises. It's been sitting in these companies for a long time. It's been good. It was only good for them and bad for the people. The people said – we won't do it anymore, and you say – give the department now, don't touch anyone. Our political officials are not parties, they are professional personnel, and when we say they are not well, they have to leave, they are full of newspapers about what these staffs were doing in Serbia, from individual ministers to public enterprises. The most successful are those companies dealing with marketing services. Suddenly they became so important and so important, it's very visible how capital is acquired in the fog. It might be good to do some fog tax, it would be very applicable in this case, but the fog is already visible, measured by billions in individuals and could easily be realised by percentages of tax to some, when in some countries it grows progressively and up to 90%. But there is still time to write such laws. The term "department" used in the sense that no one who thinks politically or thinks, and has a political stance, can work anywhere in a public enterprise. So, if it's different from what's happened so far, so far it's been party personnel. The term "yellow companies" has already been changed in Serbia. It has long been used in practice and is very visible, well, there will be no "yellow companies" anymore, no big deal, there will be Serbian companies, and that's good, that's great, we'll finally have the rights of businesses where civilised and better-quality people will work. There won't be any tenders. It's not a word tender, it's gotta be said – it's a set-up tender, that's how it's understood. It's just going to be a simple tender or a contest through which you'll be able to apply and work in that public enterprise. And again, the departmentalization and the constant detachment, not your party personnel. Please, if someone doesn't think Boris Tadic was a good Serbian president, then I guess he could be a good company director, if he means otherwise, and that's no big deal. There won't be any haughtiness, there'll be common, normal and civilized work. The situation is catastrophic. You saw at Kolubara that a good part of the political officials in power had bulldozers, Greiders or whatever they didn't have, they gave them little to use there, so they worked 25 hours a day. In Serbia alone, there is this term that someone can work 25 hours a day. No one in jail and no one. Of course it's the detachment again. Why the detachment? So that no one would be removed. People are not being replaced here because they worked in "yellow companies", but because people who will work in Serbian businesses should come and that's a big difference, you know. It is therefore good to pass a new law on public enterprises, try to regulate Serbia's economy in a civilized way, make these public enterprises operate in accordance with positive regulations, not to benefit individuals, to stop with established practice. The fear that exists at this moment is clear. It will stop the operation of a number of company leeches that had alleged co-operation programs with, say, "Colabar", with Elektroprivreda, with the water industry, there's everything and everything. That's very interesting. It's been coming out lately. So, it will cease to exist, conditions will be created for something to remain for the people. It is good for Serbian businesses to be formed, not to be "yellow companies" anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6399	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6400	I thank you, Madam Chairman. I think he's a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure, because the previous speaker spoke in an inappropriate, offensive way, making a clear alludation, speaking of the so - called so - called so - called. "Yellow Enterprises." (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What now? In terms of revealing this whole thing, I'm going to tell you what now. You probably meant Nikola Petrovic, so-called "non-party personality", the director of the public company "Electro Network of Serbia", which is co-owner of the list "Justice", the internal SNS, or when you mention "Colubar", you probably thought of Mr. Grčić, who graduated from Educons University, and otherwise had a roaster and owner of Fantasy cafe in Obrenovac. So much for "yellow companies."
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6401	Mr. Stefanovic, while you were advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you used your time. I have a registered MP, Janko Veselinovic, for a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group. You shouldn't have used time to hurt the Rules of Procedure to replicate Mr. Tomic. Please, let's all stick to the Rules of Procedure, so this session... (Borislav Stefanovi, from the place: The Rules of Procedure has been injured, not replication. )......................................................................................................... Seems to me like it is. The word is Mr. Mikovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6402	The fact is, I was saying something louder. I said it just because it's my conscience. That's why I spoke louder. Here, I'll do my best to say something quieter, because it's obviously the biggest grudge, is anyone speaking out loud? The fact is, we need to speak out loud if some laws aren't well written enough. I tried not only to criticise these laws, but to make proposals that should result in better legal text in the process of repairing them. I also pointed out certain discrepancies in the text of the law with the Constitution. I made a statement about this on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. As far as certain laws are concerned, here, I have submitted three amendments to the Bill on Public Enterprises, regardless of the need for much more amendments to be adopted to the very text of the law in order to be good. On my own, I have submitted six amendments to the proposal for a bill on conditional write-off of interest and tax-debted debt. I have submitted three amendments to the proposal for a law on deadlines and the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. I explained this, among other things, when I discussed in the principle of these bill proposals, what is the essence of all this repair, so that citizens would be better off, that there would be greater legal certainty, that all the creditors of the state would be in an equal position. In that sense, I made suggestions and asked questions. True, I did not get an answer to any questions raised by the government's present representative at today's session. I don't insist on getting an answer today, but I ask the Government's representative to consider everything I've discussed today and what is proposed in the amendments just to make the legal texts that come out of this house as good as they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6403	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6404	The chairman, I think that you are adequate in the conduct you had Thursday, when it was parliamentary issues, as you have treated counterpart Janko Radakovic, you should act, first of all, and according to the previous speaker and then you could say you are conducting this session neutrally. When it comes to the fog tax, if there were fog tax these days and all that was said by the ministers of the ruling coalition, you would have covered the deficit that was planned for next year, both the public and the hidden one. When it comes to yellow companies, we have tried to convince you these days not to make any yellow, blue, no red, no light blue enterprises, but to create public enterprises that will do business in one normal way, with professional management, because you promised it in an election campaign. You're doing exactly the opposite. Now you're repainting these companies, or you've already painted them in these colors that I'm talking about. When it comes to President Tadic, he is proud that President Tadic was the president of the Republic of Serbia. The people will say theirs when the time comes for elections again. Of course, an existing president can't even be his knee. When it comes to the media, that's the point that we could talk about for a long time, is that you have your own media, that in the media you muddle people who do their job and those who have to answer and those who are innocent. You judge them through your media. That's what further turns this country into a party state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6405	Thank you. National MP Dragan Tomic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6406	Thank you. I really didn't intend to provoke this number of MPs, to have someone come forward for a replica, because I didn't use any names or last names. I've used peorative terms used in the Serbian daily public in cafes, on the street. People say yellow company. What can I say? Well, I say the yellow company, too. I don't know who that bothers? Who knows the term "yellow company"? I guess whoever organized it, made it and used it for 12 years, sucked everything out of it, and now says department. Who should stay in it and who should cooperate with him. A sentence that is inappropriate has been used here – the current president is not the previous president. I must say that Mr Tomislav Nikolic is a very educated man. I'm sure there's been an increase in the pervasive level of communication that you're trying to implement here, but definitely the people have told who's down to their knees and downhills and falls to the articles and slowly disappears from the political scene. That's not bad for Serbia, that's good. A man will rest. Serbia must move on. It's got to come out of this mud, crime, corruption, and everything she's found herself in. There can certainly be no help from DS, these people who think differently and who think otherwise, who are optimistic about Serbia, that there is no more yellow business, that there is no other party office, that there is no other way of saying goodbye to the people, that there is no obligation for 200 days, but that it is paid properly, 45 to 60 days, which is civilized and is talking about some torque capital, and that there are no more yellow businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6407	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, who is to whom not to his knees are not determined by party cheerleaders, but by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections. The claim made earlier is very dangerous and looks to me like an attempt to end the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, expressed in the May 6th and 20th democratic elections. Serbian citizens said "no" to Boris Tadic on 20 May. You told him, too, after all. They said they wanted to change, they wanted to move forward. They said no and that's something that's unchangeable, regardless of your cheerleading attempts. On the other hand, I think it is bad if we use the parliament of the Republic of Serbia as a single address, i.e. for individual empowerments of individual directors of public enterprises, because also if the only objection to Mr. Mića Grcic, director of the "Colubare" is that, at some point, by fighting for existence, he opened the cafe, but did not wrong about the law. Those directors who have performed some very important functions so far, some ministers are not concerned by parliament, are dealt with by state authorities in charge of investigations, police and judicial matters. We see that for some solutions that are now party-set in Belgrade, the DRI has filed reports. It's only relevant, not whether Mr. Dmitar Djurovic is in the blockade or not. Anyway, not a single piece of SNS was wrong about the law, and when the law goes wrong, I'll vote first for it to answer and end up where everyone who goes wrong about the law should end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6409	Thank you. National MP Ljuban Panic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6410	I'm advertising Article 109 and Article 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask you to remind the MPs who speak offensively to certain political groups in this House because we are all here with the votes of some citizens, that this debate would not turn into what the Serbian citizens decided in May's elections, so when it comes to ending the electoral will, we may also be able to discuss what is going on in the Caves, in Sapac, in Belgrade. Is it the end of the electoral will of citizens, when in the local elections you get nearly 200 thousand votes less than the DS, and then you use all the force at your disposal to change through the media and pressure on the councils and authorities in local self-governments or to talk about who has or does not have the right to talk today about something in Serbia on the day Uros Misic, who wanted to fire a policeman with a torch, your law on amnesty today, or to talk about how much the relationship with the same police officers and prosecutors is, when it's enough for someone to spit at the work of every prosecutor and police officer in this country by not amnesting someone but by a criminal procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6411	Mr. Panic, I did not warn Mr. Babic, as I did not warn you that the MP group was using all the force. I had a right to warn you. So I'm not warning anyone. I think all MPs express their political will and have responsibility for everything they say about this speaker. The word is made by the People's Messenger Janko Veselinov, by the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6412	I won't answer my word again unless I'm provoked by the bar dictionary as one MP puts it, to convey it to the Assembly. I agree that President Nikolic is better than former President Tadic in making brandy, even if I think so, and if I get that brandy from Mr Babic, I will indeed confirm it. He normally owes me an apology for saying last week that I won't be a member of the DS again since Monday, after the DS Assembly. Here I am today, a member of the DS, very proud of it, and I say that I will contribute to bringing this debate into normal circulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6413	The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, by the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6414	I'll be very brief and repeat myself and try not to repeat myself to a young colleague, who is unfortunately no longer in the O.R. but I'll say the same thing I told Mr. Stefanovic last week about this mathematics. We won when all the voices get together I don't know where. Remember the final score and all this looks like when the coach wants to keep his job and he's going bad at it and he wants to keep his job so he says, you know, we had bigger possessions of the ball and we had more corners. No, remember the score. The result on May 20th said 3-0 to the SNS and that's a fact. On the other hand, of course I won't apologize, and I have no reason to, but I'd be happy to do it if I didn't do it for God's sake. What I'm going to say is that we are not coming into a situation where someone asks for a return of office so that someone else, or a previous MP, apologizes to me because he won't return his mandate, so maybe they'll end up in another party the next day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6415	You've been looking for a replica for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure? Please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6416	Madam Chairman, I'm sorry, but we did mention it directly because it was a direct response to my presentation on names as said. We can get into who's better now. The citizens have said theirs. It's incorrect that you should say such things right now 3:0. I wouldn't qualify it that way, and if I explained it nicely to you then, if you remember, that was not 3:0 at all. In any case, time will show the results of those who have now received the citizens' trust whether they deserve it. What you don't need to conclude is when two examples are mentioned, three examples I listed with the name and last name that it's an ad homen and that it's an attack on a certain man or on a SNS. No, I don't. It's an attack on the attitude that you brought out earlier by your MP who didn't mind voting for Djindjic's Law, which is that we now have yellow businesses. So I asked a legitimate question -- if we have yellow companies called companies where Dmitar Djurovic is president of the SNS Economic Council, head of Serbia's corridor or Milorad Grcic, who is now head of the Kolubara. There are a number of other things, Nikola Petrovic, a non-participating figure of the Elektro Network of Serbia, co-owner of the Justice List. I don't know whose "justice" is or who she's close to. My question was in that sense. If you pull that trigger and say yellow companies because you heard it at the bar, then you have to explain what color these companies are. It's better if we all avoid it. This law confirms that you don't care about the department and that you don't care about the company being painted in some color, so make it yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6417	Thank you. Since we have returned to the yellow companies again, the right to the replica has Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6418	I didn't expect this appointment to last 20 minutes here in the debate. Apparently, someone's been hit pretty hard. This folk slang that has existed in Serbia for twelve years has been created as some kind of angel that you can't do anything about, because it's been party prey all these years in every respect. Those who sat as executives and those who worked with these companies were closing the circle. Thus, besides these companies, tycoons grew and tycoons grew and Serbs grew smaller and smaller. I guess it's better to have Serbia as a good country and disappear so-called. yellow companies. Department means nothing more than new people in these companies. It's no big deal if they're new people. Go home and get some rest, not bad for a change, let others work. Anyone else in this Serbia knows how to work in these public enterprises. Then you won't be able to get your best friends, relatives, children, neighbors, pensioners, snorkels and curtains, and who can be the owner or co-owner of the companies with whom these public enterprises worked. That's why it's not a bad term for the department, but in this sense, how I used it, not in terms of how you used it. All those people who come to public office will not abuse public enterprises and will not play with the property of the Serbian state. We're a different world. A whole other planet and we think differently about it in this Serbia and we look at it differently. It's not bad that we have a yellow company appointment today, we're going to bury him tonight and they're not going to be in Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6419	Please, we won't use that term anymore. The word has Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6420	I'll be very brief. I'll invite you and the other colleagues to return to the normal session flows and let us talk about the agenda for the last twenty minutes we have left by the end of the session. I will not remain unconcerned and will respond to a respected colleague called the companies run by Mica Grcic, Dmitar Djurovic, Nikola Petrovic. They're called successful companies, and that's how they're going to stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6421	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, by replica and by this I am closing the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6422	I assumed you wouldn't give a word to the MPs who have been using the pay phone so far and giving hurtful words, as they themselves say to the persuasive, previous authorities. Since 1990, when a multi-party system was introduced into Serbia, the least in power was DS. The only constant in power since 2000 is G17 and Mladjan Dinkic, your current coalition partner. It reminds me of my colleague and Rasim Ljajic and the SPS. So I hope you'll have some calculations before you say such hard words and I don't want the times around the colors of public enterprises to be the main topic tonight. We're talking very important things about who's going to run public enterprises. As the law is designed, it will at least be professional and successful enterprises. This does not promise their biographies and the way they choose does not promise to be successful enterprises, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6423	The word is Milorad Mijatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6424	I ask my fellow MPs from the ruling party, the position and ruling opposition parties to spare little of us from small parliamentary groups their bickering.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6425	Mr. Mijatovic, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6426	Indeed, Article 107, we do not engage in your discussions, and therefore we ask you to leave us aside, because we really do not want to listen to these discussions, we want to listen to the laws that are on the agenda, and I would ask you, Madam Chairman, to return to the laws and to finish this point, that we can work on other points of the agenda tomorrow, and leave who is as much in power as you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6427	Vladimir Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6428	I really don't see what the problem is that we're in power. I think that all political parties in Serbia and in the world are struggling to be in power and that is an indication that we are successful at it. If you have a problem with it, if it's envy or jealousy, I can understand it. Today we are invited out of the coalition by your parliamentary group, I assume you've offered yourself to our partners again, but they won't, as far as I understand. Don't blame us for being successful, it's good for both Serbia and us, and I'm sorry that you're in a position where you are. Think about it. I told you last time, power and diapers change for the same reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6429	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Honorable President and Honorable Citizens of Serbia, we have indeed shown that we are a passionate people with these replicas, and the strongest passion in every human being is the passion for power and power, and we have just demonstrated that to the citizens of Serbia, but I ask you to get back on the subject, because we are finishing this session and I am not going to abuse the time of the parliamentary group, but I will use it to say in the shortest time some important things that have defined us to support this set of laws today in front of MPs in this high house, believing that the adoption of these laws is being extorted by the current difficult situation and trying to overcome in a wise way the problems in which Serbia, above all, economic problems. In this light, we have been looking at the laws that came before us, so I will only briefly refer to the Law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, because at this point, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, there is a debt of 517.5 billion on the basis of the interest generated on the basis of the basic tax debt. If we know that basically every tax, first of all, is one coercion that implies forced payment, then we know why resistance occurs, not only in Serbs, but in every nation when it comes to paying taxes. In addition, we had a difficult transition, in which the tax was paid by small and medium-sized enterprises, and many in the meantime, thanks to the interest that grew and could not be achieved on the basic debt and shut down. This is an attempt to bridge something and save a part of the business, save both the number of jobs and save a part of Serbia that lives and works. I'd also like to say something about the law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions. It is a law created and extorted precisely by what is said to have jobs in Serbia, but there are no charges. The charge is the main problem. Such a legal solution will in some ways discipline everyone in this circle to make the charge feasible and to actually start the money in terms of increasing production. As for the proposal for a law on public enterprises, of course it is a difficult and slow process of separation, it is the slowest process in Serbia and will be the hardest to overcome. That is for sure, this has been the practice so far, and with this current practice is difficult to deal with, and just when we talked about the Budget Law, I think I mentioned that at this point in Serbia, most people want to get a job right now in the companies that are funded from the budget. There are few people who want to go to the economy, at least how healthy the economic operators are, because they think there's a safe salary on the budget. It's the one, as a colleague would say, the slang that rules the people. However, the budget cannot be the biggest employer, the biggest employer must be the economy. In order for the budget to be rich, powerful and not have to pass laws that will necessarily and in some short time solve the problems of citizens and the functioning of the state. We know that the budget comes first of all and that the tax is actually a derivative revenue that makes the budget come true. What we consider in this law on public enterprises to be an important change, these are members of the selection of directors, it's one newspaper that refers to the responsibility of boards and boards of directors, and so far has been a popular practice to be in the membership of a board of directors, it comes to you as a reward, in front of a political party for a certain action, because you had an appointment, and you had no responsibility at all. However, this practice is changing and I really hope that this law will come into practice. I have already said, and I personally believe, knowing both Serbia's economic miles and Serbia's political miles that it will not be easy, but that this step is to get to it and get public enterprises that will be responsible, whose work will be transparent and indeed public, because they stand in the service of citizens and should only exist for the sake of citizens. I will also refer briefly to the Law on tight interest, which is a concept that is famous in Serbia, and I would like to meet citizens of Serbia who at this point can calculate their tight interest if it has come to some debt, there is no such thing. So, the Constitution has brought down the current way of calculating tight interest rates and it is good to pass this law, because many citizens have come, not only in a difficult position, to say in some kind of debt slavery on different grounds, and there are no citizens in Serbia who haven't had to be in debt in the last two decades on various grounds to resolve their existential issues. So New Serbia has found in these laws reasons why it should support them in the voting day. We will listen carefully to everything that colleagues have to say through the amendments, because we think there are good amendments and I think Mr Dinkic has just said that some will adopt, that these laws can be made even better, but this is just one step towards a more perfect and better arrangement of this public sector to which we all belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-04-0.u6431	We're closing tonight's session and continuing work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
