ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Susana Spasojevic, Vesna Stepic and Katarina Rakic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education for Technological Development, I have called for the members to attend and Radina Todovic, State Secretary of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Vera Mavric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Shani Dermaku, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior and Radoje Savićić, Head of the Group for International Agreements on Social Security at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 2 to 5 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint and uniform search on the draft laws under points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 170, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Does anyone suggest that the time of the debate be extended? Thank you. ) Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: SNS - one hour, sixteen minutes and 48 seconds; DS belongs one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; SPS -30 minutes; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; United regions of Serbia - 18 minutes; LDP - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; New Serbia – nine minutes and 36 seconds; Unity Serbia – eight minutes and 24 seconds; The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians – six minutes; SC – the Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes; the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina – six minutes and the National Minority, the National Party and Rich Serbia - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall determine, by mutual agreement, not more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorized to this agenda point: MP Predrag Markovic, the parliamentary group of the URS, MP Dusica Morchev, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and Mira Petrovic of the United Pensioners of Serbia party. I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on the Mutual Recognition of the replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Italy; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on Social Security; Confirming an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on Social Security and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual representation in the provision of consular protection and services in third countries. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Thank you. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Predrag Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2633	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in continuance these two days, and yesterday and today, we have the same matter in front of us. A bit of a joke. Last night, I told the Minister of Education that since amendments to the Law on Education are the result of agreements with all the interested and reached agreements in the previous period, which means students, representatives of the academic community, colleges on finding opportunities and for colleges, and for students to enter a year after simplified conditions and to finance themselves from the budget. Likewise, these agreements, which are interstate agreements, can all be brought under one item together. Of course, one kind of law, and these are ratifications. They are naturally separated, but the goal with which the Government has or proposed in this session to amend and supplement the Law yesterday, which concerns regulation of the agreements and agreements already reached, or ratification of several-year negotiations, such as ratifications to be discussed today, are to address the shortcomings observed in previous years, which are at the end of the line concerning concrete citizens' problems. That is why yesterday, in discussions of MPs of different parliamentary groups, and I am sure that today, too, there will be no political folklore, which implies, and he is legitimate, that we first speak of what someone has done good or bad, instead of talking only about what we are going to do with what we have declared in the Assembly to provide for our citizens. A typical example of a social security agreement concerning the relations of the Serbian state with the countries of Austria and Slovakia, as these agreements partly reflect problems that have arisen, or because of inadequate regulation between states, and these countries have changed. Slovakia is today's follower in one part of the commitments of the Czechoslovakia Republic. Serbia is a follower of a whole series of rights and obligations arising from Yugoslavia, so SFRY, SRJ, SCG. So a whole series of questions and problems some have not been solved for years. I would like first of all to say that these agreements are the result of the great work of different governments' expert teams in previous periods and, finally, the fact that the EU accession processes, which Serbia started with the decision of this National Assembly in October 2004, acquired the conditions for some of these countries' legislation, above all I think of Slovakia, are easy and simply ending those agreements that were controversial in previous years. If this seems too subtlely theoretical to anyone, I will remind you of the information, it seems to me that Prime Minister Dacic has brought it to the Committee, which concerns social security under the Agreement with the Republic of Austria, in fact regulates issues that have not been regulated since 1957. These are issues concerning labour rights, which means pension, social and health insurance. Do you know how many thousands of people are involved, our citizens, who were or are employed in the territory of the Austrian state, or those of Austria who are employed in the territory of the Serbian state? There are a number of practical problems that we often do not have in mind. When we talk about these people, we can easily talk about them when we are proud of those figures that come into the budget of their incomes, because they are sent to relatives, when we proudly say that they are guarding the tradition of our country, when we lightly swear that they will help the diaspora in something that we did not agree in the country of origin, and the absence of such agreements directly affects the daily problems of achieving their rights, and not in a period when they are in full working power, but much more and more difficult in a period when they are no longer and when they need to exercise their rights precisely on the basis of the work they have invested in previous years. Perhaps an even clearer example, as the exact date of the talks on reaching an agreement, the phase of the agreement, is the issue of replacing driving licences, i.e. an agreement between the governments of the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Serbia. In the explanation that we have received, we see that the basis of the agreement has been reached, if I am not mistaken, will correct me, in government meetings on July 12th and 13th, or 13th and 14. July 2011, but here I can testify that the process is much longer. In October 2006, I learned about this problem by the former Ambassador of the Republic of Italy, Mr. Zandi. I discussed this with the president of the Italian Parliament in Budapest, then here at the House of National Assembly with the president of the foreign policy committee of the Italian Parliament, the Italian ambassador then joined and began to agree on resolving these problems, and were continued in the term of the current outgoing Ambassador, Mr Variki. Representatives of the three governments, meanwhile, agreed to reach this agreement. Why are we saying all this? From the moment one of the highest places and the other countries were determined the will to solve one problem, it took five years for us to find ourselves now in a situation where we can discuss and finally declare this agreement, to create a precondition, and it is two months for the actions to be carried out, it says in a member of this agreement, or a bill, in order for the citizens concerned to benefit. Often because of our mutual political differences we do not take as a Assembly, it refers to all MPs, technical steps that even if the Assembly does not slow down the final result of these multi-annual efforts. The problems of replacing driver's licenses are not a traffic problem, they also concern the work problems of our citizens, who work for our transport companies, transport companies of third countries and carriers in the Republic of Italy. They often lose their jobs and their licenses. It affects the exchange of goods, because there was a whole series of problems, which you can see from the proposal for an agreement. The promoter worked hard to give us all examples of all examples and permits and necessary bureaucratic procedures to be agreed on, to see what forest regulations stood in the way of people to generate income and, of course, to use part of that income, not only for their existential problems, the achievement of their labour rights, but of course for the income of Serbia's budget. Since we see from this example that it was necessary for the five years that something, which no longer slows down, only comes to the agenda, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, while the President of the National Assembly is here and while MPs of positions and opposition are here, however someone is currently pleading, as we know it is changing, to say that, when changing the Rules of Procedure, those parts that have been seen in the previous session have either not written in legal language or changed circumstances, so it is possible to simplify, one of the possibilities of simplification, and this is not a small job, because look at the list of laws that this Assembly has adopted in the previous session, and you will see that there are a huge number of laws concerning ratification and around them opening plenary sessions, it is possible in the spirit of previous Rules that, or at special sessions, there would be no vote on these points, as well as a matter of urgency for the parties to agreeing that it is necessary and the parties to agree that it is possible for the parties to agree, and the parties to be possible. In this way, what cannot come into force without voting in the National Assembly would allow us to get to the vote more easily and faster, and, independently of the work of the plenary session on committees, to hold an additional debate and to meet precisely those representatives of the parliamentary groups who understand, or have an interest in, their own parliamentary groups, whether they are citizens who represent themselves. Since I have already said that I am certainly ready and independent of what the leadership of the National Assembly takes, that I will certainly propose some amendments, I ask all the MPs, if they have this kind or if they have seen some technical or any other kind of shortcomings, so that this kind of remarks of delivery so that we all try to arrive together and that after the text that will not only allow for a more effective work of the Assembly, they will allow the results of this work to quickly give effect or at least do not slow down what often generations of experts have negotiated, and then create an opportunity in interstate relations that both citizens, and one, and other countries, see the benefits of that. So there's no confusion, of course, we're talking about our citizens here, but these agreements apply to each other. Of course, this will be a good signal, that there is no confusion, when it comes to changing driver's licenses, clear categories by which, it is not a question of passenger vehicles, immediately to be understood, it is the least of the problems, it has nothing to do with the Fiat at the moment it entered into this process, but it certainly does now, because a large number of professionals with driving licenses issued in Italy will also have a problem, and it is important that they be easily and quickly engaged in the business of the company, which is, as you know, joint ownership of the state of Serbia and the Fiat. In relation to everything I said, MPs of the URS Group will, of course, vote in favour of these agreements. Finally, some have voted in the government to come to the agenda of this Assembly, I am talking about a previous meeting, and it will certainly not appear in a further debate, unless there are reasons why there are parliamentary or business reasons, but there is no reason why there is no reason for us to allow these agreements to come into effect as soon as possible, because of the benefit of all the citizens concerned. That's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2634	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the DSS, Mrs. Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2635	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Secretary, the agreements that are on the agenda today are very important because they regulate an area that concerns our citizens living in the territory of other countries, which is vital to them. So we regulate the area of pension disability insurance, health insurance, unemployment, work-related injuries. These social agreements are necessary because a lot of people live abroad and in their working life they exercise their right in several countries, so this makes it easier for them to connect their work experience easily and these agreements allow us to have no double insurance. What is more important, as regards these social security agreements, is the regulation of the rights of our diplomats abroad in the areas of social and health insurance. Our diplomats haven't regulated it in all countries, let's say in the United States they don't have it regulated. We should resolve this issue so that in all countries, where Serbia directs its diplomats, they have regulated health and social security. As I said, it is very important that this area concerning the social security of citizens be covered not only for our citizens abroad, but also for our citizens in Serbia. We need all citizens to be equally important, no matter where they live. In Serbia, we have 6.9 million health insurance. Can all our insurance companies use their health care rights? All of us here know well that the answer is negative. As you know, in the last few months we have encountered a major problem in Serbia, which is that a large number of our citizens cannot exercise the right to receive health care because they cannot verify their health book, because simply employers have not paid their contributions, the state has not carried out enough good control to control employers to reconcile their obligations and enable its employees to verify their health book and to exercise their rights – the right to health care as well as the choice of doctors. The procedure if it does not pass the procedure to choose its doctor, unfortunately it cannot verify the health book and can only use the emergency medical care. Health care, among other things, and timely and effective treatment. How many citizens of Serbia are waiting today for scheduled diagnostic checks per several months? Once again, I would say, it is good that we regulate this area of social security and the health protection of our citizens abroad, but not wanting to spread the subject today, we should also seriously deal with citizens living in Serbia's territory and their rights that they can use or cannot use, that most of them are not their fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2636	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2637	The esteemed president, respected ministers, dear colleagues, will, of course, support the draft laws confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Serbia - the Republic of Slovakia. Of course, it is clear to all of us that a great deal of effort has been made here, as well as all professional services and people who led the ministry in the previous period, but I must also express my great satisfaction that Mr. Krkobbic is currently at the head of the ministry, because our party, in fact, is a party, which is based precisely on the concern of the social security of citizens. So it's a great pleasure to be able to finally ratify these agreements now, on the other hand, I must admit that our responsibility, as well, is related to the takeover of one such ministry, is just based on that concern of the socially endangered population. We have here a responsibility and a real seriousness in solving social security last week, very clearly presented to all our fellow citizens, and you have to admit that half a million people who received financial assistance in the view of that so-called. Thirteen pensions is just one of the confirmations of what we stand for. We think it is necessary that, and hopefully, in the next period because of the situation that we have, that we are headed by Mr. Krkobic, we will be able to make agreements with some other EU countries in which many of our fellow citizens are working. That we will thus provide them with security as well as pension-invalid security to health, labour injuries, etc. My predecessors were pretty much talking about what these agreements mean. It is up to us to support them, and I hope that we will all do it together because it is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the foundation of our party, it is also one of the principles of co-operation with the international community, but of course to the extent that we can protect our national and our social interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2638	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all these bill proposals are mostly regulated by the rights of our citizens who are on temporary work abroad and that of someone who is so entitled to do so with us. As I come from Braničevski County, which probably has the largest number of employees who are on forced duty abroad, that is why I know all the difficulties they have in order to achieve some right that should literally belong to any citizen, in any territory. When it comes to the agreement with Austria, I can only say hello, because a large number of our citizens who have obtained the right to retire have a problem if they check out their residence on the territory of Austria and come to live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they have significant pension cuts. They must bend in various ways, or leave no place of residence, but leave the number of banks in which to pay their pensions, and once in six months leave, or empower someone else to raise that money for them and bring it here. It creates certain difficulties and problems for them. In the end, one type of pressure that must constantly be in fear that some of the rights they have obtained from work relations do not fail, and we all know that labour rights are considered human rights that are protected by the UN Charter. This agreement with the Government of the Republic of Austria can only be welcomed. As for the Agreement with Italy, there is also a large number of problems. I wish this agreement was a little more detailed. He describes only one technique, but we also have some life problems that the application of this agreement itself will not solve. Also, many are likely to know that we have a large number of people on temporary work in Italy who have problems with driving licenses, especially when it comes to professional categories. They were simply left before the election – either not to have any permission, or to take a driving test there. In the past, driving tests in the native language were possible. However, back a few years ago, except that it costs quite a lot, even for their standards, laying was possible only in their national language, i.e.. in Italian, so because of the specificity of the terms used in traffic, a large number of our citizens could not achieve that right. They are given certain opportunities, however, there are a number of people who have not achieved this right on any basis – they have driving licences they have not replaced, they have been laid down for amateur categories in Italy, they drive amateur vehicles, but professional categories are kept for some other time. Because if they give their Serbian driver's license there, they will lose professional categories in Serbia as well. The law itself treats the Agreement that this is possible only in a period of one year from the moment of the application of the person on the territory of Italy. And what about those citizens who have been registered for a long time, they meet the condition that they have a driver's license that's older than the date of their application on the territory of Italy, and they haven't replaced that driver's license? Will this period be applied to them for the past year, since they have so far been unable to accomplish it? There was no legal basis, nor was there an interstate contract. If we leave this formulation the way it is now, that it is valid, I know that it is international contracts and it is difficult to regulate it afterwards, but to try through negotiations with the Italian government to supplement this agreement and to allow those citizens who have met all the conditions and have not changed their driving licenses, to replace those driving licences in some future period, precisely because of the fact that this solution, as it is, is certainly giving certain opportunities, but does not solve a complete problem. Many citizens came and complained and wondered when we'd give them the right to do so. It's tried something, but I don't think most of this benefit is going to cover it. It may be necessary, therefore, in some subsequent discussions to try to remove the shortcomings of this agreement. Because these laws are certainly not a fruit of someone's political interest, but exclusively in the interests of citizens, signatories of the agreement, the SNS will support these agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2640	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr. Micunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2641	Dear fellow Members, we have before us laws that may not seem so attractive to the audience or to the MPs themselves, but I think they are extremely important. This is about human rights, first of all, about so-called. The second basket of human rights – on social rights. The right to work is one of the universal rights to which we are bowing, and I hope there is no dispute about it. Today, however, this is important because of another question. It's very common for us to talk about how to save, save the country, but mostly by cutting costs and so on. general consumption, and when we see what this is about, then we see that it's about pensions, social giving, health care, schools. So there's something about citizens far more direct than the profits of certain companies. That's why it's very important that we approach this issue that way. At the same time, in these agreements, we see that the states respect the rights that people have achieved based on work and that he has worked anywhere, in Austria, Slovakia or anywhere, conveys those rights here. This means that retirement is not, as it is often said here, some humanitarian function that depends on goodwill, but it's a category that is social in the sense that we are community, both young and old and all together, but at the same time it's an economic category because there's money invested by people from the time of work. So, one part of that profit is there. It's respected. There are no laws that make it a right for people to retire. Speaking of humanity, let's not bring her down to charity. Humanity is a much wider matter. It takes care of a man as a man, of humanity, of a species, of her survival. Unfortunately, these concepts are under the influence of the liberal economy today quite devalued, so they are mostly considered third-rate concepts in comparison with efficiency, social growth and many other things that, of course, are important and have somehow become the assumption that something is progressing from something. So there's not much to say about laws here, except that we welcome and take the same example of respecting the work and the rights that people have achieved, separating some of their earnings through work. One of the predecessors talked about various topics, including the Rules of Procedure and served one proposal that I don't think is good. When it comes to interstate agreements, then it should not be discussed by the Assembly, unless 50 people do so, but it should be done by the board. It's a degradation of parliament's role as a carrier of sovereignty. We are obliged here to discuss the most state contracts, because we represent the state and its sovereignty and we cannot delegate it to any committee as if it were none of our business. We must be concerned with relations with other countries and obligations that our country assumes by means of an international contract. I don't think it would be a good idea for us to degrade this matter in such a way as to bring it down to something that the committees will discuss a little bit, and we only want to confirm it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2642	Thank you. Since we no longer have registered candidates, we are moving on to the list of speakers set out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First, MP Marijan Risticevic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have signed up for the simple reason why I see that some interest has not been particularly expressed on this subject. Since our diaspora numbers between three and four million people in the world, and of which 500,000 lives in Germany, lives temporarily, lives and lives in Austria, 300,000 of our people, this shows the importance of the Pension-Invalid Insurance and Social Security Agreement signed with Austria and which we today need to verify. The Serbian diaspora brings $4.6 billion annually. It is 13% gross social product, and the Serbian industry brings 17% of gross social product. When we consider this 13% pure profit, that this country has hardly invested anything in our people who live and work abroad, and in Austria it's a huge number, then we just see the importance of this agreement, and then we see the importance of our people who live and work abroad. What's interesting is that wherever our people work, they fall into good, honest, hardworking and hardworking workers, only these same results they can't make in their own country. What I'm saying is that in countries that are truly democratically organized, they make and what a result. The position of Serbs in Austria lately has not been God-knowing and therefore this agreement is gaining even more importance. I should remind you that of these 300,000 who work and live in Austria, half of them are in Vienna, and many of them, since they could not regulate their rights, have received Austrian citizenship. At the moment, the number of Serbs who received citizenship in Austria is almost 100,000, with 40,000 in Vienna alone. To remind you that recently in Salzburg they have even asked to be recognised national minority status, given European rules that in every country where there are about 1% of the population, the right to obtain national minority status in that country is acquired. So much for that law, by adding that from the 1990s until today, the Serbian diaspora is more numerous for more than 150,000 highly educated people, that the American estimate is that the schooling of a highly educated man costs between 300 and 500 000 dollars and when you multiply it, we see that we lost at least 45 billion dollars in brain drains. So far more than we owe. Therefore, these topics need to be approached extremely seriously, and I am somewhat disappointed that the number of debaters is very small and that this topic did not particularly interest anyone. Finally, I would like to state that, according to World Bank estimates, from 2000 to 2010, Serbian diaspora has brought $43 billion into Serbia. I believe these are the ones who brought out more, the ones who ruled. So, the Serbian diaspora can't get as much as the previous government could out of this country. So much for the law with Austria. The number of Serbs in Italy is more than 100,000. In northern Italy alone, there is 40,000 living, thus the agreement on mutual recognition of certain documents with Italy is important. It is to believe that the people who are staying there have their driving licenses and thus we will facilitate their position, or recognition of documents when they return to their country one day, and I hope that it will be soon and will return to a better country than they were forced to leave. As for the deal with Bosnia, I'm here to support it. I'm half happy about that one entity. I'm a little concerned about providing this consular protection for that other entity, since half of BiH, I want to say with the Republika Srpska, we have exceptional relations that can be called allied, more than cordial, while with this other part we almost do not have good neighbourly relations and dependence on consular representation from a country where they will also arise certain problems, so they can appear in the Middle Eastern countries of various mujahedins. So I'm a little worried if they're looking for consular protection that's down to a few of these guys. Anyway, of course I will vote for both, with the fact that I am happy that the agreement with BiH contributes to some Serbian-Serbian integrations that are, in my opinion, very necessary. I even think it would be necessary to implement them before EU accession. I would like to welcome the laws, or agreements that have been signed, by being a little disappointed that the Serbian diaspora has not again found the right place in this House in our discussions how much it contributes to the development of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2644	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2645	Thank you. Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not used to saying hello to the two ministers and vice-presidents of the government in the O.R. around one point, which is obviously very important. I really think it's very important because it refers to a large segment of human rights. When it comes to other human rights in this room, there are a lot of speakers. Unfortunately, today, the kind of human rights we want to talk about is obviously not interesting to the MPs. The second topic covered by these agreements is actually the Serbian diaspora. It is a topic that we certainly need to talk about, and it is certainly good that we talk about in this House, but obviously this topic is not the same, even with these on-call diasporists, as I would say, it is not very interesting that they are talking about it here today. I want to talk about two type-approvals. One is the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on Social Security, and the other is the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on Social Security. This is an issue that is very important for the citizens of Serbia, especially for those living in the territory of the two countries. These agreements can be said to be type agreements because, practically, they treat one substance in the same way with the same procedures, so it's about type agreements. Rights under these agreements have already been treated by much older agreements with then-Yugoslavia, that is, Austria and Czechoslovakia at the time, on the other hand, from 1957. So we see when some things are set up well, then they last a long time, unlike some of our laws that come here every day. At least once a year, we have the opportunity to see the same laws that are being processed and corrected. Meanwhile, for both of these countries, for Yugoslavia, on the one hand, and for these other countries, Czechoslovakia and Austria, there were some changes that were significant and political and territorial, so these agreements had to finally come to order, especially in this House, because, as far as I know, the Austrians had already ratified this agreement. Apparently, Serbia is late in the work because it is not very obviously interested in the diaspora, i.e. Serbian citizens living in Austria. These agreements treat the right to health insurance and health care, therefore, a large group of human rights, which is also important for the work of people who live even in Serbia, and at this point has been moved to the territory of another country, then treated as a pension-inhabited insurance, then rules relating to motherhood, insurance for labour injuries and occupational illness and unemployment insurance, and what is one area, which applies to children's allowance, therefore, what is practically the area in Slovakia and Austria countries. What is important is to say, the accent is therefore on the insurance and that this should be made clear, first of all, who these agreements refer to. So I've told our people who live in the territory of these countries more than once, in fact, to avoid that double insurance, especially in terms of pension-inhabited insurance, it's significant, because many of our people gain practically one part of their pension rights in this country, and most of it in another country, let's say, in Austria, it's a case and then there's a really big problem with how to achieve this right. That's why this agreement is so important. It refers to our diplomats who work in these countries, they also had occasionally major problems with this health care, so it is good to be treated with these contracts and applies to our citizens who are tourists in these countries, especially this part of the right to health care, which is also important, because, in fact, because of the poverty that the previous government has introduced as a model of life in this country, there are fewer tourists who can allow themselves to travel for some other reasons, but that part of this area, this tourism, is actually very important and actually the health insurance of tourists is very important. I can't say one thing that would be bad, which is treated in these agreements, but I would like the same rights that are provided here for our citizens in other countries' territories to be secured in this country. When I say that, I watch Mr. Krkobic and the pension-invalid insurance in this country. When I say - pensioner, today I can only say that it is an army of poor people and that indeed this country and this new government must and how to deal with reform of that system, and they have to find a way that pension is not a social category, because it is obviously becoming a social category, but also an economic category, these people have earned their pensions. Most people have earned their pensions, and they have to live with dignity in their old age. Unfortunately, I have a rare opportunity to see you, but I want to open that question, because I see you, why the accent is being put on, and this government is putting an emphasis on the fact that local self-government has to help that the Pension Fund can't pay off, or the state can't pay off its pensioners. It's degradation and it's discrimination against people. Budget in my town, I'm from Valjev is unable to handle such givings. He really can't take it. We've had some war destruction, of our own, as you now say, our present friends, who have honored us with bombs, cassat bombs and various other bombs, so our main Krusik has been destroyed. The city lived on it. So the city can't support its pensioners right now. Why are they discriminated against, in relation to Belgrade's pensioners, the strawberry pensioners, some other pensioners, you have to take care of that. You can't commit to local self-government, because you took everything from them, so they don't have the conditions to pay it to the pensioners, you make sure that people can live in their town with dignity, that not everyone has to live in Belgrade, that they're okay. On the other hand, social givings in this country are far below each level, they are increased, but bureaucratic procedures and bureaucratic apparatus are designed to prevent people from exercising their rights and unfortunately, it is difficult to fix, quickly and simply. It's a bureaucratic relationship to reality, right now I'm fighting for two single mothers, who can't exercise their rights even though they have all the rights and have the right to social benefits, I can't help them, because we have problems with bureaucracy, which clearly doesn't understand the language, the one that's prescribed in the law. At all, the story of the interpretation of the law is really funny to me, because it's very clear to someone's right to achieve something, it's very clear and in the laws it's quite clear and I don't see the need for something to be interpreted, that it takes two years for it to spread. Health insurance in our country has been said in this parliament, I think our colleague Milan Dimitrijevic spoke of it at least one hundred times in the past term. The new government is aware of what it's caught up in reforming the health system, the system with the most corruption, the system with the least personal relationship of a doctor, because if you've prescribed a tape to be run by patients to meet the norm, then we can't talk about any contact. I have to say that most of the treatment is personal contact and trust, everything else is the least of the medications. My colleague is going to open another topic that is very important, and I'm going to end up here. I want to say that it is nice to help our citizens to exercise their rights in one legal way in the country they live in, and it is not their country, homeland or country, but I would like Serbian citizens in Serbia to have the same rights and that the state allows them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2646	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mira Petrovic, who appears on the basis of a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2647	Dear colleague, I felt the need to explain to you about local self-government and what you just said about discrimination against pensioners, Valjev and all the other cities you listed. Our MP group is proud of what we have managed to do, that what we have been doing in Belgrade for the past four years, which is helping pensioners, to expand this time to the whole Republic. I think that's our biggest credit. We had some other things we did here in Belgrade, from free transportation, from helping pregnant women, you didn't mention them this time, but I'm going to give you an example that in Arangelovac at the time we were here giving aid to pregnant women, the Arangelovac found that there was no means, that local self-government had no means, and there were only 17 births, or women on pregnancy. So it's not always a matter of whether local self-government has the means or not, sometimes it takes good will, and I think this time we managed to do it, and that the Belgrade model is being repainted, and that half a million people, the pensioner, have received that aid of 16,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2648	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2649	Dear colleague, we can talk like this for a long time. You're potentialing one topic that I don't like to treat that way, you know, in Belgrade, rights are achieved but in other parts of Serbia they're not. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, not to go back there and tell you how the pensioners live, that's what I'd like my colleague Marko Jaksic to tell you if you haven't already gone there to see. The number of 500,000 pensioners is one third, less than one third compared to the number of pensioners. When one third of pensioners have rights and two thirds do not have discrimination. I'm just saying what's very important for us all to understand, the state has to systematically address the measures for all categories. There are no categories of Belgrade pensioner and categories of Valjevo region, no. Systemically resolve the measures and then everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that this topic has not caused more interest in the National Assembly. I am also amazed by the fact that the government representative did not address the MPs today, that he simply did not need to say anything about these agreements, although they are extremely important, but I am glad that this topic is very important for the discussion of DSS MPs and Mr Marijan Risticevic. So, just four MPs today to talk about this topic, it's not common, and in the end, I don't think it's correct in relation to what this subject is being treated for. I will only talk about these two social security agreements Serbia signed with Austria and Slovakia. I think it is a good thing that they are coming together for the purpose of protecting our citizens abroad and for the protection of foreign citizens, i.e. citizens in Serbia. It is particularly good that they guarantee equal treatment for citizens and insurance companies in both Contracting States. This agreement with Austria allows all workers in Austria, i.e. all Austrians working in Serbia in Austrian companies, to exercise all pension-inhabited rights, all other rights arising from working relations, as well as rights arising from safety at work. This agreement was signed, as far as I could see, in 1998, but only now is it adapted to international standards, and so far he has not been able to be ratified. The agreement is very important because today, we need to know, 300,000 Serbs live in Austria, 180 thousand of them in Vienna alone. On the other hand, Austria is one of the largest foreign investors in Serbia. Since 2000, she has invested about three billion euros in this area, and the trade in goods was only around 500m euros in 2011. Of course, the importance of this agreement should also be seen in light of the fact that immigrants, natives in Austria, are very difficult to exercise their rights, more specifically they have much more difficulties in the process of integration than in any other country in the EU, and by this criterion Austria is 24th in all countries ranked on that list, well below the EU average. It is particularly worrying that the number of Serbian citizens, now deliberately speaking not of a citizen but of citizens, is decreasing abroad. Of course, he is even more concerned if we look at him in the light of the fact that the number of Serbs in Serbia is also decreasing. The reason for that is very simple. Our people abroad, in order to have the right to a normal life and to be able to exercise all their rights, since the state does not do much in this respect, are determined to accept the citizenship of those countries in which they live. This, of course, makes them normally able to live, so that they have all the rights relating to their civil, personal, particularly political rights as citizens of those countries. In that sense, I think it is very important to this agreement. As I said earlier, a huge number of Serbian citizens live in Austria, and of course, the Serb community is much bigger, even than the Slovenian, Croatian and Hungarian communities in Austria, if we look at them comprehensively on one side. Unlike those who were in 1955, my status as a national minority has been gained, Serbs in Austria have not yet. I remind you that Serbs in Austria have lived here since the end of the 17th century, that the most important works of Serbian literature have been printed in Vienna, I will only mention the "Serbian Dictionary", "The first Serbian grammar". It is also important that Serbs participated in the formation of social life in Austria since the 17th century and here. This, of course, I am saying in favour of this issue that it is necessary for the state to be much more committed to obtaining the status of a national minority, because the position of the Serb community in Austria will, of course, be much more protected. On the other hand, in order to obtain the status of a national minority under the Constitution of Austria, it is necessary for Serbs, or national minorities, to prove the presence of one of its institutions for up to 150 years. I remind you that the Serbian Orthodox Church on the territory of Austria has been in existence for almost two centuries and has recognised its official status. So, on the one hand, we have met all the conditions for obtaining national minority status in Austria, and on the other hand we see that there is absolutely no desire, or the will of Austrian officials to recognise our status. So, in such a situation, it is necessary for the state to make every effort to intensify bilateral co-operation, i.e. bilateral relations with Austria, to improve any type of co-operation with Austria, so that this request from the Serb community in Austria can be achieved one day. Unlike Austria, specifically Slovakia, this second agreement I'm talking about, in Slovakia Serbs have the status of a national minority. It seems to me, in February 2010, the government of Slovakia and officially recognised the status of a national minority to the Serb community. I must admit that the Serb community is not numerous. More specifically, the Polish, Hungarian and Ukrainian communities in Slovakia themselves are much more numerous than the Serb community, but the Serb community has national minority status there. Of course, it is very important that as a state, we establish a single policy in the protection of Serbian interests, especially if we know that this government has abolished the Diaspora Ministry, which has previously dealt with this issue as much as it has. Also, it is necessary for the Serb people in the region to enjoy a much greater degree of rights than it is now. I think Serbia's position and policy should be to advocate that Serbs and in the region, which are very many, according to some official statistics over two million, should be our goal of having the same rights as national minorities in Serbia. I remind you that the rights of the Serb community in the environment are strongly and seriously compromised. Perhaps the most drastic example is the issue of achieving these rights in Croatia and Montenegro, and the best status regarding achieving these rights is in Romania. That is why it is very important for the state to finally understand how important this issue is, to establish a single policy of protection of Serbian interests, wherever Serbs are, and especially Serbs in the region, because I must tell you that as a state, we will never be able to be respected, neither modern, nor truly democratic, if we treat our fellow citizens in this way, primarily in the region. Thank you. I'm sorry I'm the last speaker in this session. I am sorry that my colleague Sanda Raskovic Ivić will not have the opportunity to speak, because we are obviously finishing the session now. As a former ambassador to Italy, she had a lot to say about the agreement that's on the agenda today, but this is the outcome that no one could have predicted, that we're going to end this quickly, given the pace of work we've had lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2651	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2652	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-26-0.u2653	I'm sorry, you're not an authorised representative. On what grounds did you answer? Milorad Stosic, from the post: As an MP. You have no right. I read clearly – do any of those who were right in accordance with Article 96 want a word, so, excuse me, but I really can't give you a word. (Milorad Stosic, from the scene: I thought I would constructively answer some questions, gentlemen, as far as local self-government is concerned... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on draft law proposals under points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. I'm scheduled to resume the session for tomorrow, September 27th, at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
