ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 99 MPs are present and to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Petar Kuntic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4266	Thank you. I am asking a question to the Prime Minister, and I am interested in the government's position towards the Intergovernmental Mixed Commissions following minority protection agreements. I am primarily interested in the issue of the Intergovernmental Mixed Commissions, which follows the Agreement on the Protection of Serbs in Croatia and Croats here in Serbia. I can say that over the past few years, four years, when the backbone of the past government was made by the DS president of our Serbian side was MP Janko Veseinovic and I can say that he did his job well. Now the government has changed and is likely to appoint a new chairman on the Serbian side. On the Croatian side, Mr Barisic, the chairman, and the information we have at our disposal, the representatives of Serbs in Croatia are ready for this conversation. So it is only here to see who will be representatives of the Serbian side and to maintain the continuity that has been in the past four years when the leader of our Intergovernmental Mixed Commission was MP Janko Vesenovic. It is very important because 90% of the issues that come to the Intergovernmental Mixed Commission refer to issues that are legally resolved both in Croatia and in Serbia, and are not consistently applied as it is imagined. So, a question from the minority self-government or as cultural autonomy of the national minority community is otherwise said. We cannot wait indefinitely for this to happen if it is not now by the end of the year, then it will certainly not be until the second, third month next year, and then the question is whether we will be able to hold another session before Croatia enters and becomes a full member of the EU. So far, we and the representatives of Serbs in Croatia have been a constituent people in the former common state, and now we have to build our national and minority communities urgently, as the other old minorities already do. I think the government should be more efficient on this matter. I know it's a matter of all sorts of issues, a matter of resolving Kosovo, but this is also an important issue for citizens living in this country. So my question to the Prime Minister is when will be the next session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Commission to follow the implementation of the Agreement on the Protection of Serbs in Croatia and Croats in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4267	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4268	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to forward my question to the finance minister, and in fact my question concerns one life issue, one factory in Zrenjanin, a rubber factory. Therefore, that question should be asked to the entire government. Namely, the rubber factory processes fraction C 4, it's a by-product in the production of gasoline. The rubber factory hasn't worked in a few months. The workers are on emergency vacations, with 22 cisterns filled with C4 raw materials, which are actually processed by the rubber factory. However, they cannot use that raw material because someone’s error in these tanks has been marked as driving speech. For this reason, the factory should pay 600,000 euros in excise duty, and the factory simply does not have that money unless it produces and does not work. So is this the way to strengthen the economy? Is this a way to overcome economic difficulties, is this a way to help the economy in its problems, while fighting corruption, bureaucracy and its procedures. In fact, the price of couches on the world market is 6,000 euros per tonne, and if the factory does not work for months and does not produce, it means that workers cannot work, to increase the percentage of those unemployed. So when it comes to the discussion that this government has one policy towards the economy, according to the growth of the economy, by reducing unemployment, it should be considered that something quite the opposite is happening on the ground, that there is not enough support for those who produce, who fill this so empty budget with a high budget deficit. Therefore, the finance minister and everyone else in charge of this problem should respond, why they overlooked it, why they haven't done anything for months, and when they think and what they think they're doing to overcome these problems. Everyone knows very well that there's one fraction of four in those tanks, that's some side-product of gasoline production, and everybody knows very well that it's not fuel. However, each one takes off responsibility and does not take what is necessary for the production in the rubber factory in Zrenjanin to start and strengthen. The economy without serious support from the government cannot survive, cannot develop, and the economy cannot produce results, no matter how much it has been talked about and how verbally it has been advocated for Serbia's economic rebirth.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4269	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić – Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4270	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before I ask a question, I will make a small introduction, last month the leading American geneticist Ralph Skorca, an expert in the genetic promotion of fruit at the US Ministry of Agriculture, at the Faculty of Agriculture in Belgrade, gave a lecture in which the Serbian public met his child, the 15-year-old work of his team, it is a genetically modified variety of plums, called "honey sweet" and which should be the answer to the problems facing the Serbian plum that has a problem with the infection. I need to remind you of a few facts. The first is that Serbia has passed a law prohibiting the production and transport of genetically modified plants and to clarify these are those plants that have changed the gene composition in a way that would never happen to classical reproduction in nature. On the other hand, those who need to implement this law that I have to say, restrictive, means those who are in the country's leading inspection structures don't hear the best, and they're making the ignorant when it comes to growing parcels of genetically modified soybeans. It's both in Vojvodina and in Sword. They don't hear very well when things like the famous firm run by one of the tycoons and one of those who pay one big party, who sells genetically modified seeds. Experts dealing with corn suspect that even among corn seeds there is one that has been genetically modified, at least according to the tags marking the seeds of genetically modified plants. I must say another fact that there are Serbian officials who believe that our law regulating and the production and transport of genetically modified plants is restrictive and that it will be a problem for Serbia to be admitted to the World Trade Organisation. I want to remind you of another fact, which is that the EU has laws under which it is very seriously necessary to mark any food that has been genetically modified, and on the other hand, America is exactly the opposite, and they are allowing the transport and production of genetically modified plants, and they do not mark that type of food. What I want to draw attention to is the fact that there are three points on the list of the 75 taxis that the Ministry of Finance and Industry have brought in to relieve the unnecessary burdens of Serbian citizens and Serbian companies regarding companies dealing with the production and transport of genetically modified plants. Under the regular number of 63, 64 and 65, the list contains provisions which release companies, legal persons and organisations involved in the production of genetically modified organisms. Therefore, the tax for a solution is abolished to determine that the person meets the conditions for assessing the risk of limited use, introducing and placing on the market genetically modified organisms and products thereof. Is that an accident? Is this perhaps the introduction to a small door of something Serbia doesn't need at all? Will genetic-modified organisms, i.e. genetic-modified food, like nickels, be Serbia's way out of the crisis? Of course not. I'm asking the Prime Minister and the Minister of Police, then the Minister of Finance and Business and, of course, the Minister of Agriculture. In Serbia, the Law on the Banning and Transport of Genetically Modified Plants still applies, who then made such decisions to bring both the transport and production of genetically modified plants into circulation? Who's responsible for this violation of the law? What will be done according to the one responsible for such a violation of the law? Third, is this announcement actually about the law of genetically modified food in Serbia, and is it an announcement of a change of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4271	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4272	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will very briefly ask a question which I refer to the Minister of Health, Ms Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. In 2005 or 2006, the Chamber of Health Workers was formed under the patronage of Minister Milosavljevic. At that time, around 5m euros were collected from health workers. I talked about it a little bit in the tide, and now I'm asking the official question. These are the most non-transparent funds that have been collected and I'm asking the question of what these funds have done because it's a very large sum. I have information that it is primarily purchased a very luxurious business space for the Chamber and that a number of administrative and other employees are employed in the ministry. Then, every month, all health workers pay the Chambers and that's about 150 thousand euros a month. Also, I ask the question of where is this money spent and what kind of benefits do health workers have from that amount that collects every month? I claim and stand that almost no benefit healthcare professionals have because all licensing and all the meetings of the experts formed are funded by the health workers themselves. So I'm asking, is this money being collected to support the Chamber administration or is it intended for other purposes? We do not have insurance as health workers if there is a possible professional error in order to pay compensation, which from these funds could be worth it. So, the total money collected from health workers either at the beginning, or these 150 thousand euros collected every month, goes to us health care workers in the unknown direction and I want a clear and precise answer from the health minister where that money is going and what kind of benefit we can expect from that money that's being collected every month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4273	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives, want a word in accordance with Article 287? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4274	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, being that the new power, above all, was Defence Minister and First Vice-President Mr. Aleksandar Vukic announced a sharp fight against crime and corruption, whose advocates both the SP and the Democratic Party were, and will be in the future, so that we absolutely support it. It has also been announced by the largest party in the country that the investigation and disputed privatisations will take place. Namely, the SP, as well as the Demochrist party, believe that so far most privatisations have been carried out mainly in a criminal way, so that those privatisations that have been conducted fairly can be counted on their fingers. The Serbian Renewal Movement is the same as the Democratic Party wants to examine not only the 24 privatisations required by Brussels, but to examine in fact all the controversial privatisations in our country. If we look at the ownership structure in those countries that need to be our role model in the business of private businesses, in terms of relations with employees, working conditions, their earnings, origin of capital, etc., such as the example of Germany and France, then we can see that these are the European principles of business of private equity, at least as the Democratic Party of Serbia and the SPO sees, and not so far quasi-privatisations conducted mainly by tycoons and criminals. Those privatisations, mostly after their implementation, were being robbed of company property, the dismissal of employees to the treatment of employees as slaves and, unfortunately, in our country, became a model of privatisation being conducted, which is why the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia and the SPO strongly oppose. Hence, in this regard, I ask Mr. Alexander Vukic the question, not only of these mentioned privatisations that Brussels has ordered, but also of when the investigation of criminal and disputed privatisations will take place, such as former giant "First Spark" Baric from Obrenovac, also the company "Posavina", "Bora Markovic", "Leteks" from Leskovec and numerous other privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4275	Thank you. Mrs Gojkovic, just to let you know, given that your parliamentary group no longer exists, you have no right to ask the oral question now. You can take the written route and ask for it. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Slobodan Veličković, Ivan Bauer and Biljana Pantic. We continue our work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts set out in points 9 and 10 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions under items 9 and 10 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have withdrawn the proposal for a decision on the election of the Board of Governors of the NBS, which should be considered as the 9th item of the agenda, and only the proposal for a decision of the 10th agenda will be considered in the context of this search. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group Serbian Progressive Party - one hour, 19 minutes and 19 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, three minutes and 13 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 31 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 26 minutes and two seconds; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group - 19 minutes and 50 seconds; the Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 17 minutes and 21 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - 14 minutes and 52 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 11 minutes and nine seconds; the Group of MPs of New Serbia - nine minutes and 55 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - eight minutes and 41 seconds; the delegation group of Serbia; the Democratic Party of Serbia's six minutes; and the six minutes of Serbia's Democratic Group of Serbia -- the six and the sixth group of Serbia -- the six minutes; the former members of Serbia -- the former members of Serbia's Democratic group of Serbia -- the six and the six minutes; the six minutes; the former members of Serbia's group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, MP Vladimir Cvian, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4276	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, Madam Vice President, Mrs Grubjesic, we are pleased that you will be at this point to share some thoughts together. At first sight, a routine thing, the National Assembly should give consent to the Statute of one of the hundred and some agencies as many as there are in Serbia. It is enough that there will probably be only a few speakers talking about the subject. This should be a matter of common congregation practice, one of many decisions, where the statutes are confirmed. To repeat, the confirmation means that we can't change as the National Assembly not one single letter in this document, we can just accept it or say that it has to be done again. The agency's council almost a year ago, in fact on 31 January 2012, passed the Statute by law and forwarded it to the National Assembly for confirmation. The previous assembly of parliament and the Assembly Committee, I think for industry, have considered and forwarded this document further. This could be a routine thing and this is a very short document only 30 members have. The statute as an act of internal arrangement is an important document that needs to tell us how this body works. There's a lot of talk in the public about the work of agencies, sometimes the right sometimes not, about the way they spend money, the way they provide money, the amount of income. There's often a lot of unargumented in there. This statute has 30 members. When transitional and final provisions are rejected, including those in force when confirmed by the Assembly and published, there are 25 members who regulate matter. Article 2, for example, says the agency's headquarters is in Belgrade and the agency's name is the Energy Agency. Article 3 informs us that the Agency for Independent Legal Entities is functionally independent of any State body which of all organisations and persons engaged in energy activity. So, quite a lot of independence, quite a lot of power, influence, and it's always a question of whether power, influence and responsibility are in correlation. This statute was delivered to the National Assembly without any explanation, without any explanation. There is no explanation for any of the items in this Statute. There's the only explanation of the board that's been considering it, the standard explanation that the board's been considering it, that he delivered it to us, and we don't have any feedback on what the motionor wanted to solve with this document. From 25 members, three members to details describe the seal, what the seal looks like, what its dimensions are, and Article 8 even says one of those 25, says the agency has a logo that determines the agency's advice. So, the agency that regulates the entire energy area, one of the most important branches in Serbia, of the 25 members, one commits to having a logo. Article 9 introduces us precisely to the Agency's competences and informs us that, in fact, the agency brings a methodology that determines the price of electricity for public supply, the price of natural gas for public supply and all other energy sources. The Agency shall continue to give its consent to the Labour Regulation, etc. Article 11 defines the election of funds, thus providing the agency with the resources for work from revenues obtained from license fees, and Article 12 says the agency refers to the financial plan the National Assembly gives its consent to. Article 18 informs us that the Agency's tasks are being carried out in organisational units, and everything else will be regulated by its internal act. We knew that, they didn't have to spend the paper telling us they were going to have an inside act. Article 19 tells us that certain activities from the department of the agency can be carried out outside the Agency’s headquarters and nothing more. Everything else will be arranged by their internal act. I'd like to draw attention to article 25. The Energy Agency is based in Belgrade, has a total of 38 employees. There'll be two more next year, so they'll be 40. The structure is mostly highly educated personnel. Article 25 deals with environmental issues. "The agency's jobs are done in a way that does not endanger the environment." How does the Agency with these jobs and these offices do their job? It may be one of these entities in the energy sector and the agency can take care of it, but it can't affect the environment in any form. The statute shows that he is understood as having to accept the National Assembly. A number of dozens of members were delivered, explained in an indicative manner, without any possibility of the Assembly having insight into the real work and organisation of the agency. We're expected to formally adopt this. What may have the consequences of adopting or not adopting this act? What are the consequences of the Agency's work on all of us? I'll go back to Article 9. Article 9 states that the Agency sets the price of electricity and provides a precise methodology for the determination of prices. What does that mean? This means that everyone who wants to sell electricity, the exact methodology of determining the price of electricity, determines the Agency. If so, and it is, it says, then the National Assembly must not adopt such a statute. When you go to the Elektroprivreda Srbija site and look at what the price of electricity looks like, I think Elektroprivreda should receive a Nobel Prize for solving numerous problems of the Serbian economy and Serbian citizens. The price that Elektroprivreda speaks of is the price without value added tax. If such a price model were applied to all other products, at the same time bread costs 20%, milk 20%, derivatives, gasoline is no longer 160-170 dinars, but 70-80 dinars. They say the methodology -- well, we have nothing to do with VAT, that's the thing to charge the state. Well, there's no bread manufacturer anything with VAT. There's nothing to do with taxes. If this is the methodology, then we must not accept such a statute, because this statute allows very non-transparent funding. I'm an engineer, and I have a lot of trouble figuring out what my electricity costs are. So now, for wide consumption and for double-tariff measurement there are three zones – green, blue and red. Each of these zones has a higher and lower tariff, but that's not all. In particular, the fee for the measuring place is calculated, so the charge for the calculation is calculated in particular, so when all of this is added together, then the VAT of 20% is added to all of this and you get the electricity bill. Is that the methodology that the Energy Agency informs us of? Is that a way to determine the price of electricity? I have before me the bill of a Belgrade family. Since the tariff is lower than 2400 hours to 08:00 in the morning, that family spends green and blue tariff packages. That's 300 kilowatts in the upper tariff, green and 30 kilowatts in blue 220. Ten times the consumption in this higher tariff. Then how do we calculate that average electricity price? Of course, when you count one, the other, and the third, you get some prices for kilowatt hours that are not even the ones we can hear from television screens at all, but those prices are far higher. For the green zone 6.6, that is 0.6 Eurocenti. If you enter the blue zone, it's already 9.9, almost 9 Eurocents. It can be measured with other far richer countries. The National Assembly, based on this Statute, establishes a financial plan. It is very interesting to see that, since we need to give consent, and the National Assembly will allow this practice to continue. I have the Agency's financial plan for 2013, adopted on the basis of the statutes that apply. The Agency's total revenues are 180 million dinars and the same are the same costs. It's interesting to see what the biggest revenues are. A total of more than two-thirds of the revenue is the fees paid by JP "Electro Networks of Serbia" and JP "Serbia". The income from Elektro Network is 85 million, and from Srbigas is 34 million, almost eight million from Transnaft and less than a million dinars of Jugorosgas. So the biggest income is given to them by public enterprises, companies that are in trouble, which have far less pay and more. It's interesting to compare expenses. There are 38 employees, but due to the obligation to join the EU, the number of employees will be increased, so there will be 40. Thirty-two of those 40 are highly trained, two magistrates and one science doctor. To establish salaries, they hired the KPMG Consulate Agency to help them determine their initial earnings. So it couldn't have been done by the National Assembly or anyone else, but it had to be an employed auditory house that would help the Agency establish their profits. The cost of the Agency's earnings for next year is 126 million dinars. Two-thirds of total income is costs and profits. I'd like to remind you that he only has 40 employees. If we compare that with any other state bodies, say, the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic has a cabinet that has almost 72 employees. So it's slow twice as many employees as the Agency, and they have the same pay fund. The president of the Republic has 127m in the budget for next year, and this agency is also 127m with twice as many employees. The National Assembly should tolerate that? The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts has 147 employees and has a budget of 170 million. So four times as many employees and a little more budget than this agency. The trustee for the protection of equality has practically the same number of employees and 41 million. So three times less wages are paid by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality than by the Energy Efficiency Agency. We're supposed to accept that statute without a word? Of course, the MPs are sitting here, and I guess it's understood that we don't read it, because when you look at the cost of arbitrary services, you'd think the cost of production services would mean some kind of production or some kind of activity. It is a very interesting term for renting a business space, because the cost of production services is renting a business space for 40 employees. It was 19 million dinars last year, 16 million dinars this year. In other words, in two years, the Energy Agency will pay 35m dinars or more than 300,000 euros for rent. If this is recalculated to the monthly level, it is about a million and 300,000 dinars per month or 12,000 euros. When it is divided into the number of employees again, the Agency pays 300 euros in rent space per employee. A small apartment in Belgrade, said Sinisa Kovacevic, or a decent apartment in Belgrade can be rented for the same money. Not to say the Agency doesn't have to have headquarters in Belgrade, there may be somewhere outside Belgrade. When I say Belgrade, I don't mean Terrace. There may be other parts of Belgrade-Zarkovo, Batajnica or any other part. Is this the statute we need to accept? Is this the statute that should allow the Agency to continue to operate in the same way? Is this a way to save money? If you compare the profits and the profit fund, each employee in that agency is a gross profit fund of 250,000 dinars. What does that have to do with the government's decision and the law that we've passed on the capping of the profit fund? Then we are sent a statute defining the seal, explaining how the seal should look and explaining to us how the Agency has a logo, and not telling us how they've established such high profits. Is the Agency more important than the Office of the President of the Republic? I'm sure it isn't, and I'll always argue that the President's Office has a far more important role than any agency in Serbia. Then how can the fund be twice as big as the President of the Republic? Is it lawful for someone to spend so much money in this crisis to rent a business space? What space? Where? How? At what cost in a situation where people are left out of work every day, when 0.5% of the budget is allocated to culture in Serbia, as well as to education and everything else? I think the best way to start solving problems is to have the National Assembly reject this statute. To restore it to the Agency's re-determination, to reconsider the number and need for this number of agencies to exist. Finally, let's start taking care of the costs of the state. The adoption of this act will only allow, allow such and similar agencies to do whatever they want and absolutely no one to account for what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4277	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4278	The Honorable Chairman, I've already advertised before this speaker. I appeal to Article 103, which says - the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly. Perhaps by paying no attention, but I warn you that at the beginning of this session you have found that the MP Biljana Pantic is not present from the SNS, here she is, sitting at 9.45 p.m. So correct this material error. I also think that Mr. Borislav Pelevic was present. Just for the purpose of finding out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4279	Thank you, I accept. The service sent me the presence records, so I apologize to all those present, and I read them. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we don't have a word for it, I'm concluding a unique search. We move to the next item of the agenda, it's a principled search on the proposal of the Law on DAVANIA OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE USE OF THE SERBIA BANK A.D. NEW USA, "VOLKSBANK" A.D. BELGRADE, VOJVODIAN BANK A.D. NEW NOW, SOCIETE GENERALE BANK SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE, UNICREDIT BANK SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE, AMSTERDAM TRADE NETTERLANDS AND DEUTSCHE BANK AG LONDON A.D. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for the constituency groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group Serbian Progressive Party - one hour, 19 minutes and 19 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, three minutes and 13 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 31 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 26 minutes and two seconds; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group - 19 minutes and 50 seconds; the Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 17 minutes and 21 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - 14 minutes and 52 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 11 minutes and nine seconds; the Group of MPs of New Serbia - nine minutes and 55 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - eight minutes and 41 seconds; the delegation group of Serbia; the Democratic Party of Serbia's six minutes; and the six minutes of Serbia's Democratic Group of Serbia -- the six and the sixth group of Serbia -- the six minutes; the former members of Serbia -- the former members of Serbia's Democratic group of Serbia -- the six and the six minutes; the six minutes; the former members of Serbia's group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Are the representatives of Proposer Susan Grubjesic, Vice-President of Vladezeli's word? Yeah. ) The word has Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4280	I thank Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in short for the public, I will say a few words about a law whose title is long, but I will repeat it. I will explain the reasons for the adoption of the law, the constitutional basis and some more details, which will help with the debate that will follow. The reasons for the adoption of the law on the granting of a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP banka Serbia a.d., "Volksbank" a.d. Belgrade, Vojvodjanska banka a.d. Novi Sad, Ssotte Generale Banka Serbia a.d., Unicredit banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Amsterdam Trade Banka Netherlands and Deutsche banka ag London, under the responsibility of the public company "Srbigas" Novi Sad, are contained in Article 16(4). Public debt law. This Article shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The public debt law is prescribed that the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia is given in the form of a law. The issue of a guarantee by the Republic of Serbia is provided for in Article 3. Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the financing and exercise of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, established by the Constitution and the law. What are the terms of the loan we're going to discuss today? The loan agreement between "Srbigas" and OTP banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, amounting to 10m euros in dinar equivalent to the middle course of the NBS, was agreed under the following conditions: the nominal interest rate variable, three-month Eurobor plus the interest margin, which is 6.20% per year. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the total amount of the loan granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with a one-year repayment period and a three-month repayment. A 70m-euro loan agreement between "Srbigas" and "Volksbank" a.d. Belgrade in dinar equivalent to the middle course of the NBS was agreed on under the following conditions: the nominal interest rate variable, three-month eurobor plus the interest margin, which is 6% on an annual basis. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the total amount of the loan granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with a one-year repayment period and a three-month repayment. The loan agreement between "Srbijagas" and "Vojvodjanska Banka" a.d. Novi Sad, worth 20m euros in dinar equivalent to the middle rate of NBS, was agreed under the following conditions: the nominal interest rate variable, three-month Eurobor plus the interest margin, which is 6.95% on the annual level. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the total amount of the loan granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with a one-year repayment period and a three-month repayment. A 10m-euro loan agreement between "Srbigas" and Socita Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade in dinar equivalent to the middle course of the NBS was agreed under the following conditions: the nominal interest rate variable, three-month eurobor plus the interest margin, which is 6.65% on an annual basis. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the total amount of the loan granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with a one-year repayment period and a three-month repayment. A 10m-euro loan agreement between "Srbigas" and Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade in dinar equivalent to the middle course of the NBS was agreed under the following conditions: the nominal interest rate variable, three-month eurobor plus the interest margin, which is 7.25% on an annual basis. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the total amount of the loan granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with a one-year repayment period and a three-month repayment. The loan agreement between "Srbiagas" and Amsterdam Trade Bank Netherlands of 20m euros was agreed under the following conditions: the nominal interest rate variable, three-month eurobor plus the interest margin, which is 5.98% per year. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the total amount of the loan granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with a one-year repayment period and a three-month repayment. Finally, we also have a loan agreement between "Srbigas" and Deutsche Banka AG London of 50m euros, which is agreed under the following conditions. The nominal interest rate is variable, a three-month euribor plus an interest margin of 5.75% per year, plus an arrangement margin of 1%, i.e. in total the nominal interest rate is three-month eurobor plus 6.75%. The credit grant fee shall be 1.5% of the amount of the total credit granted. The compensation due to early repayment of the credit on behalf of the bank suffered due to early payment is 0.5% of the amount paid prematurely. The credit repayment period is five years, with the repayment period of one year and the repayment of the loan is three months. The funds of this loan will be used to maintain the current liquidity, issue guarantees from the Republic of Serbia to the 190m-euro business banks to maintain the current liquidity of the Serbian Public Enterprise Novi Sad. So much for me in the introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4281	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4282	Dear Vice President, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this session began a long time ago. We interrupted her twice. Finally, we have reached one of the last points of the agenda, which has been announced, or the Government has requested an emergency procedure in the agenda proposal. If you look at this part when the law comes into force, it should actually come into effect immediately after the publication of the Official Messenger, which points to a few things. The first of them is the financial situation in which the company "Srbigas" is located. I don't think I have to stress in particular how much LDP has said in previous years that the situation that exists in this company and the way it is organised, but above all the conditions under which it operates, that they are long-term unsustainable and that we will eventually come into this situation to "Srbigas", or state as a guarantee for it, is in debt under extremely unfavourable conditions. Your terms are frightening, and the interest that you, Mrs Grubjesic, have been talking about here by reading the reasoning of the law. If we compare them with the loans this country takes in other areas, especially for infrastructure, they are three or four times bigger. The margins on these loans are between six and seven, 7.5%. This means at this point that when the loan starts to be paid, which is in a year, at the end of 2013, that the interest that will be paid differently from the different banks that will be trusted will be more than 8%. In view of the current situation of the Eurybor and the very real projection for its movement in the coming years, it is clear that at a later stage of the repayment of the loan and interest will be significantly more unfavourable, i.e. significantly higher. It is clear to everyone in this country that "Srbigas", as well as other public and state-owned enterprises, whose government guarantees the loans they are taking, will not be able to service their obligations and that the state as a guarantee will pay these obligations in different ways, either directly or through various types of budget subsidies or other types of assistance will be able to maintain artificially in the life of the company. We talked here a few days ago about some other loans. And at that point I said – hardly that for a fundamental problem or that for all the problems in "Serbiagas" we could accuse those who have handled it for the past few years, including Mr. Bajatovic. The key problem of "Srbigas" is that under such conditions, with such an import price of gas and such a price of gas at which it delivers its product to end-users, it simply cannot survive and in virtually 200m euros of new losses each year. That's why these loans are so unfavourable. These are loans for liquid liquidity, practically easy cash loans, which are taken to service some old loans and to enable the company to operate elementally on the market. It's November 6th. So the company has already entered the heating season and whose business is vital to all citizens and the economy of this country. At the same time, the president of your party, who also announced the government's finance and economy minister, has announced sharp cuts in the public sector since January 1st, apostrophe of the public company "Srbigas" and several other companies, JAT Airways and others. We haven't heard any arguments until today, however, any more detailed plan as to how you intend to do it. At this point, two months before the end of the year, you have a company, a public firm for which you are taking a new 190m-euro loan from seven banks to finance liquid liquidity. At the same time, you claim that since January 1st, you will absolutely resolve this situation and we assume that these loans or some new loans in next year, for the new debts of "Srbigas", this country will not have to take. You didn't talk about it in an explanation. I don't understand how you intend to do that. In the coming years, will the import price of gas be lower, will you finally eliminate the mediator in gas imports, Jugorosgas, whether you will finally resolve after four years of constant announcements, on insistence and under LDP pressure, the property and ownership issue of the company Jugorosgas, or will you increase the price to end-users, or will you withdraw some sharp cuts in the company itself, which obviously have to include a reduction in the number of employees, a different way of organisation, a different way of managing? When you come to parliament and ask for a guarantee for a 190m-euro loan, which at the very least will be paid with all these scary interest rates, not to say more, then you owe us such answers, both to the parliament and to the citizens of the country who are taxpayers and who will pay this loan to the same citizens and businesses that are users, not to say customers, "Srbigas" and who each month have to pay the fee, or the price for that service, for the gas that was delivered to them. Every year over the past few years, it has happened twice a year, the government's representatives have done so and representatives of the past government, come before this parliament and say -- this is the last loan and the last guarantee and never again, and now we're going to make sharp cuts, we're going to fix the situation, and the citizens of Serbia will never have to finance someone's obligations in this way again. In the meantime, nothing has changed. We're still in the roof or a little less general contracts with Russia. You haven't told us anything about what's going on with that commitment that the state made to pay off that famous 30 million-dollar debt in the next few months came in late 2000 and early 2001. You haven't told us anything about any more precise conditions for gas imports this year. You may say that you are the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, but also how well you know that not only the question of this loan or the ability of the Serbian budget to finance this loan, but the general issue of gas trade, gas imports have a lot of repercussion and on the issue of our European integration, that it is doubtless the fact that we are both in the gas arrangement and on the issue of gas prices, the way we pay it, the service of some old obligations were in a much more favourable position that we are a member of the EU or at least a little further away in the past few years in the process of European integration. It might be good to hear at this point and some parallel price of gas at which the gas buys Serbia or "Srbigas" or at which some of the EU countries buy. Among them are some countries that we cannot compare with, say, Germany, which is in a completely different kind of arrangement generally with Russia, and then with the company "Gaspora", but also some countries that are comparable to Serbia – Slovakia, some countries around us, etc. If we heard that analysis, maybe we could talk about where the savings are, whether our brotherly and extremely successful business relations are, as they are often presented, with the Russian Federation just as much in our favor, or maybe there are some other countries that don't boast every day about how they're in close relations with Russia, and they're working with it in a much better, more efficient way. I don't mind Russia or Gazprom in this business. They, like any other country in international relations or any other company in business relations, are trying to earn as much for themselves as possible and to provide themselves with a better current and future strategic position. For me, the key question is – how does our country behave? What's taking us years to pull this issue of misunderstandings over an energy, oil-gas arrangement? Which is why, when we ask, what was the problem with the sale, or with the privatisation of NIS, we get the answer – as a substitute for that, as compensation we get a much more favourable treatment in this gas part of the agreement. When we point to the high price of gas, the question of intermediaries, the uncertainty of the job, then the answer is – compensation is on the side of NIS. The issue of "Serbigas", a loan for "Serbigas", cannot be separated from other similar issues, from the whole agreement with Russia, which was concluded in 2007, or 2008. What happened to those jobs in the meantime? We've asked here a few times, and we haven't received an answer yet, say, at what price will Gazprom Njeft pay, or what rate will they pay from January 1st? The issue was partly related to the end of modernization, i.e. works in Panchev. We saw that, a few days ago, he was engaged in the work of this facility, all with the operator's dialogue – here you go, Vladimir, and all the honors, Hansel. Didn't we hear what happened to this other part of the problem? In the end, the price is always invoiced to the citizens of Serbia. The price and interest for this loan and the price of gas in the coming period will also be invoiced for Serbian citizens. So let's narrow this down to a few questions. How are you going to fix the situation in "Serbiagas"? How is "Serbigas" going to stop making enormous losses since the new year? Does that mean internal changes in that company? Will the price of gas be changed for consumers from next year? Did you make it or are you on your way to get the middleman out of the gas import business? Are you on track to regulate, to establish Serbia's ownership of the Jugorosgas company? Do you intend to professionalise management in "Serbiagas"? Is this part of the changes that are announced through amendments to the law, or through the adoption of a new law on public enterprises? How do you intend to do that? You know, any change isn't always good. I mean, the last hundred days where we follow live on our skin as far as it can be a delusion. Just because he's an MP in this parliament and a director of "Srbigas" doesn't mean the next one who might not be an MP, but it's going to be a cartoon, and maybe not, the former owner of a roaster or a similar facility, doesn't mean that the Serbian administration will be better in the coming years. Well, at least we've got some control here. Mr. Bajatovic is with us more and more, so we can try to solve some problems in a direct conversation. When I get out of the public scene, I'm afraid the consequences will be much more difficult than they are now, that is, in the coming months or the coming years, we may have to take much more unfavourable and much more expensive loans. It is good that at least at this stage you do not announce the solution "Srbigas", which would be a similar solution for JAT, to leave the old company with the debt, and to reregister and start from scratch. Although, with the government's plans, no such thing is excluded. In this part, I focused my questions on these few topics. I hope that at least some of them I can get an answer in the follow-up to this session, and part of the time that I have left as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I leave for the end of the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4283	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4284	Dear colleagues, I will try, although I am not an authorised representative of the government, but an MP, to answer. I thank Mr. Djurica for the list of questions to be notified to the Serbian public. I have to tell you, I'm going to try to make a very clear attempt at some things. My impression is that, despite the good intentions of all fellow MPs, I am convinced, from the means of public information, about gas supply and the work of "Srbigas" and co-operation with Russia, which is a central issue, there are many communication forests, of course, there are also real problems. The "Serbigas" this year, as well as the previous two, three, started with a guaranteed minus. What does that mean? The price was about 30% lower than real. If we know we're going to sell 2.5 billion cubic metres, and you're selling 10 dinars below the price, which is under the management of social policy, because the government of the Republic of Serbia, not the Energy Agency, has decided on that price, as it should be by the new year. We had a guaranteed loss of 25 billion dinars. When you translate it into euro, it's 200m euros guaranteed a loss. There's nothing Srbigas management can do about it. On the other hand, our average invoices are paid to 300. You take a course 300 days ago and a course today, it's 10% - 15% loss on the substance of a money company. The next thing -- all these loans Mr. Djuric mentioned, which were taken to maintain liquid liquidity, they also cost. It's also a minus in the late "Serbiagas". There's another fact that's important to understand. Yes, at this point, there will be another 170m-euro credit line. These 190m euros, Mr Djuric, which we are now talking about are from the 2011 budget, because we have not been able to withdraw loans in Serbia. When the elections, Serbia stands, there was neither a cabinet session nor a parliamentary session, and we are now discussing the 2011 debt. For this year, it is worth around 170m euros, and it will, as seen by budget rebalance, also be by the end of the year. Or if we can't get to the end of the procedure, it'll have to be transferred in the next year. The mathematics of these losses is, under the precepts, absolutely correct. Any economic intern from the first year of high school can calculate that. The other thing is whether we should have run such a policy. The third thing you need to understand, at this point, "Serbiagas" is still more due than "Serbiagas" owes. Only the heat is 150m euros since last heating season, and you know how heat works. They charge all year round. Right? The gas is spent four to four months and a half. Did anyone think the heat would pay for the gas in November, December, January, February and March in full? No way. The price of heating is lower by cities than would be required by existing energy inefficient heating systems in Serbia. Why would I suggest that? It's a chain wheel. If "Srbigas" could collect all its claims from the economy – 400 million from the heat – 150 million from citizens, distribution systems, schools, hospitals, the simplest thing in all transition countries is what the Ministry of Finance has now suggested. We have to stop spending that kind of money. Let's try to compare that 200 million this year, and there will be more, when the exchange rate differences are included, that's the highway from Subotica to Novi Sad, that's two or three bridges on the Sava or the Danube in Belgrade, that's three bridges in Novi Sad. You could now find mathematical comparisons to build and invest as much as you want. That's more than the tranche we took over from the IMF. How much did the average family now save money for the lower price of gas? About 100 euros a year. There are 300,000 consumers of gas, it's 300,000 individual families and we've saved each 100 euros. That's how much we subsidized the price of gas. When you translate that into the account of "Serbiagas," it should be paid. You can figure out what that is. It's only 30m euros in minus. The delayed charge cost us 15m euros. In order not to give further examples now, the essence of the story must be the following. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia really wants to make this kind of social policy that I've spent before, I'll remind you, I'll say it's a little bit pre-named, we spend too much money, and the effects on households and the economy are small. There's a few things to do. We need to make a social map so we don't help the rich and the poor. In the economy, which owes the most, unlike prominent foreign investors, let's say from NIS or some other companies, when you're looking for some bank guarantee everyone wants to shoot you because it's understood that as a public enterprise you can't look for bank guarantees. At one point, I said in a joke that "Serbigas" could charge everything, block all businesses, which is about half the Serbian economy, so if the economy survives, if it doesn't survive what to do. To get the directors to act more responsibly towards public capital, we can file criminal charges for issuing notes without cover, so we'll arrest one 50 school directors, all the toplane directors, a good part of the president of the local self-government who spends gas. It's a good story about corruption. We are in a very difficult situation where we have to deal with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I'm talking about "Serbiagas", how the gas will continue to be paid. There are ideas and solutions – from January 1st, the agency determines the price. Let's do it by law and methodology. Make the price real. A social map to know which poor people are paid for. There's even a technical system. It's worth it to us, believe me, as well as to the EPS that wherever the poor consumers are, let me tell people who have a social map or local self-government, let's replace those numbers and put the numbers that are going to be some kind of voucher. It costs 50 euros, and the losses that we have on the basis of such deliveries go far beyond the annual level of something that will not be paid, so each will get one card in its social institution, local self-government or "Srbigas" so it puts it in every mobile phone and spends as much as it has. If he wants more, he has to go get a voucher with his distributor and make sure he spends more than that. That's how it's gonna be done. In the economy, we can't stop subsidising the economy in terms of gas consumption, but we have to separate the economy that makes sense to give cheap electricity, cheap gas. Why? Because there are some jobs there that really have a product, they really have a market and they really have some perspective, and even if the state spends some money, they'll keep those jobs, and they'll come back tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Many of these companies that are in the restructuring of the state pass in order to maintain jobs have no perspective. I think it's throwing money out the window. That's the third proposal I think should be done. The fourth thing that was important in the business of "Serbiagas" is the subsidiarity. It's these companies that Srbigas is taking over because of the debts. We have protected capital relatively effectively, unlike some other examples in privatisation, but we have now come to the situation that we have now cleared property-legal balances. We should go into investment. A good part of the money "Srbigas" can be charged by selling property. I'd like to hear from you if it isn't the DSS gentlemen. Now that you've already got your remarks, then listen. What's the point? A good part of that property that would have failed if we'd done privatisations as it's usually done today lies in the potential of investments in nitrogen that already has secured investments, investments in a meta-sercetical combination. I hope we do it in Petrochemy, as well as in Agrosiv. Somewhere around 200m euros, we managed to protect only through property. If these investments are brought to an end through agreed investment cycles where we do not need the help of the RS government, because we are not budget consumers in this regard, "Srbigas" could make up for a good part of that loss from these subsidies. It was also one of the big questions here, does this budget help the activities of the Serbs in other business entities? No, we've been given money to companies before in that way as much as possible to protect it. Here's an example of the Serbian glass factory. We charged everything for delivering the gas. We've made as much as two million euros. We even helped NIS pay off his claims. We sold the factory for 35m euros, plus 10m for bank payments and the Development Fund plus nine million social programme and 22m binding investments, and that if the new owner does not return the factory to Serbia in two years. The previous one was privatized for 100,000. We didn't allow this collapse of government capital. Did it cost anything to "Serbiagas"? I'll tell you it is. Agroliv paid 11m and 300,000 euros. Only the "Agrolive" brand is estimated today, where we have protected our market from Slovenian and Croatian companies, at 25m euros. We need to agree with the government that companies that have been badly privatized must enter the investment cycle. For this investment cycle, someone has to guarantee or we have to enter investment as a public enterprise, which is a big debate whether public capital, or state capital, should be the bearer of investment, I don't think that's at all a question, of course it should be, or should we find through the gentlemen some new strategic partners. I wouldn't go any further into it. As for the price of gas with the Russians, Germany and we, by 2010, had practically the same or similar price until the North. I can deliver it if you want. When the North Stream was formed they have long-term contracts for 10 years, 15 or 20 years, and we buy gas, we buy quarterly, annually. Of course there are other terms of the contract. I'm counting on us to sign a long-term contract by the start of December of the month, and I expect, I can't promise, for now we've taken down the price for now in negotiations from $490 to $420 per thousand cc's of gas, I don't know if that's gonna be the case, I'm risking that, initially in the P0 oil formula, we're going to bring it down to 360. That would mean that gas would have to collect around 10% for consumers who pay it in dinars, if we achieve that price, and if we don't have to, as it is said in the government to move on to the stock market that it is. About buying gas, I absolutely guarantee we have a class of prices in the region, even something better, but we couldn't have long-term contracts because we didn't have a warehouse. The long-term contract means that you buy the same amount of gas every day, so store it, so you deliver it to your system when it suits you more or less. We couldn't do that until now. I'll remind you that the "Serbigas" management has completed the 31st-year-old project, which is "Banatski dvor", where we have a warehouse today and that we can make real contracts for the supply of "Srbigas" and guarantee the energy value of Serbia on this issue. This suggests the next answer – we do not have a problem with the amount of gas in gas supply. We have a problem if we have money to pay for the gas delivery. If it is done with 30% unrealistic price on the domestic market, then Mr. Djuric is absolutely right. The gas will not be paid by consumers, it will be paid by all citizens in the budget. If it's paid by the citizens of the budget, of course it'll be less for the school, less for the hospital, less for the judge, less for the priest, I have no idea, for the sport, for whatever you want because, you're absolutely right, it has to be a public debt. I can't do an annual business with 30% minus the rate difference to make up for no profit on the market, and I'm afraid of any long-term debt transfer, which by law would be possible to consumers, because the figure is simply too large. You're right, part of it will have to be a public debt, and I plan to start talks with the RS government soon on what of this minus through social policy management will be part of which will have to pay for "Srbigas", and what will be the part that will have to be paid by the RS government. As of next year, the first annuities from earlier repayment duties are coming in, and we'll probably have to have some kind of budget assistance. Where are the resources? The resources are to increase the price of gas, i.e. to bring it down to a real price, and to keep it under control, with the help of the Energy Agency and the RES Ministry of Finance, that this price is realistic and that the charge is at least over 90% with a social map and all other measures that we can have. Since 2015, the state will start building in Serbia by the end of December, with at least 200m euros for fees plus the profit of "Srbigas" based on these projects, and from 2015 to 2015, we are likely to be able to return everything we earn on the basis of taxis in the South Stream to what we have now eaten during the economic crisis. There are resources. I agree with you that so far Serbian financial policy has been bad. In what way? First, we were in charge of banks in the short term, we went to overdrafts and short-term loans, which is the most expensive, which is where we agree, because we weren't able to agree to budget a minus that would come from "Srbigas" at the beginning of the year and take cheaper long-term loans. I hope that practice, that would be good for the Serbs, will be stopped. One more thing I want to say to you, I think it would be good, now we have the support and the current call of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have stopped the investment cycle of "Serbiagas". In total, we invested 180m euros in the previous four years, without South Stream, in Banatski Dvor, in distributions, in highway pipelines. We now have a guarantee in the budget that will not be the financial burden of "Serbiagas", or the state of Serbia for a simple reason because it is commercial projects that will be highly profitable. I have another question, "Srbigas" has fantastic opportunities from this strategic partnership with "Gasprom", to build gas power plants, two to four to 450 megawatts, probably plus a cogeneration of 200 to 300 megawatts depending on whether Belgrade or Novi Sad. Why would we drop it because we ran social policy? No, natural monopolies shouldn't be privatized. Those in every country in transition, and we can give an example of the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, who sold it, so now the state buys it. So, natural monopolies should remain state-owned. Who's gonna be the traders? Who's gonna be the sellers on our market? Our market is liberalized. Every company with an interest should come. I'm going back to the contracts. We expect the price to be cheaped out of the contract. What's good about contracts with the Russian side? We've never paid for a penalty. We do a billion dollars a year with Russian gas deliveries, and the bank guarantee is 15m euros. Find me a similar example in the gas trade in Europe. It doesn't exist. So we really had that understanding on the Russian side. Under a new long-term contract, they are seeking to apply the same thing they have to Germany, but I fear it will be quite unfavourable for the market and for consumers in Serbia. It's not that simple. I'll give you an example, in 2009, if we'd paid for the pens for the ordered and the undrawn gas, it would have been $200 million. Germany paid two billion euros that year. Turkey paid a billion euros last year. They're foams. Transport or pay, take or pay. We are currently in a dispute over the transport of gas to Hungary, to arbitration in Zurich. We're trying to cut transport costs and provide other conditions for the transport of Serbian gas through Hungary, which should cost a cheap price of gas. So there are other moments we should talk about. Please understand that gas is part of the Republic of Serbia's energy balance. Imagine a scenario in which last year there was no gas from which electricity was produced in such a hydrometeorological situation as the EPS would be. In 2009 and 2010 and 2011, we both received a warrant and heat to heat apartments to make it less electricity consumption, so that citizens do not heat up on electricity, so that there is less consumption in the EPS system. Imagine now that you're breaking out the gas as part of the energy balance. Do you think EPS can produce that much electricity? Is it cheaper than gas imports? I'll tell you, it's not. Whether it'll pay EPS or "Serbiagas," it doesn't matter. So we have to act rationally. We don't have so much coal, not so much wood, not so much alternative energy sources that we could be careless about the balance, when it comes to gas, and about social policy. Please understand, we've been through a lot of blows so far. Don't on the one hand, and that's a very common case, when the price of gas needs to go up, we all complain about the means of public information, journalists, politicians, the government, everybody complains. When we get to the point of taking credit and paying an unreal price, we're all rebelling again. Let's agree on "Serbiagas" in order to stop its collapse, it has to be a real price, we have to continue the investment cycle and there must be a strategic partnership with Russia, because other strategic partnerships at this point are unrealistic when it comes to the Serbian market and somehow try to place that matrix more honest, opener, and not only to undermine it under what we want politically to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4285	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4286	I believe that Mr. Bajatovic was given a round of applause as the director of "Srbiagas" and in that sense I can understand his exposure, but there is no part of your argument as vice president of the SPS, the ruling party. You talk all the time about how the government has so far had no understanding of your economically rational approach with which I agree at some points. I'm sorry, for you, for your party, for the last government and for this government that you're doing again, it's a responsibility for not acting differently. That's what I have to say because I don't think it's fair to this assembly and to the citizens. You can always give a speech like this. You do that a lot in public, but then nothing happens after that. Therefore, I insist that the government respond, unfortunately, not the Minister of Energy here, there is Mrs Grubjesic, but perhaps some answers can be given. From what you're saying, there's no guarantee the situation will change. You missed out on saying some things - which parts of the Serbian economy do they owe the most? The government, social, quasi-state sectors owe the most to companies and businesses. They're not companies, they're restructure companies that have been holding on to artificial breathing for years, and I don't know how you're gonna get them off that kind of state aid, especially if you're saying the opposite of what the president of your party and the president of Serbia is saying. So what you're saying here is quite the opposite of his exposé, his approach to broad social justice where no one will be fired, where all businesses will be preserved and that Serbia will get out of the crisis. If you want to fix this situation, then these companies can't exist anymore. They're falling apart. Those people who are officially employed in them, they're out of a job. On the other hand, the debts they make are reduced. So, the state sector, the public sector is the biggest debtor. The heat is state, local, and what they do lose is the cost of party policy being exercised by the government, above all at the republic's level, I end up very quickly, and then it looks like all over Serbia, if you crossover and emulate power, which is obviously intensity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4287	Thank you. The word has Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4288	Mr. Djuric, I couldn't agree more with you. Just a black and white picture of the Serbian economy where you would take the axe and cut it all off. I think it's a movie we've already seen. So, we've run social policy. The Law on Public Enterprises states that public undertakings can carry out certain tasks that do not necessarily need to be profitable if it is of public interest. Okay, but we're out of line now. The lower price of 30% is not something, and when it's calculated how much we've helped with it, we simply need to go to the stage of getting out of the economic crisis at this point. You're right, it's mostly state-owned, large enterprises and systems that we need, but we can't leave Belgrade to freeze, Novi Sad to freeze, households to freeze. We can't do that. We'll have to deal with that. You're right, I said in the part of this exposure that we're going to have to share these companies on those worth helping, that have a market, technology, employees and everything else, because who's going to help them if the state doesn't? Do we need these people, do we need those jobs? If they have a perspective, if it's economically justified, if it isn't, it's like the story of the bankruptcy law. If someone is completely bankrupt, it should not be maintained, but everything should be done to ensure that cases of bankruptcy or bankruptcy last 60 days, not six years, as a source of robbery and corruption. That's where we agree. I don't think it's that easy to do. They can't pay for what they charge for a year in four months. That's technically not possible. I think we got along just fine. You asked for what resources, I don't have time to go back to it now. So, we have loans for now, we have a charge increase, we have an introduction of a social map, we have some other mechanisms that could lead us to an increase in charge, but that's all we can do. The rest of us will have to iron together in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4289	Thank you. Mr. Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4290	I'm sorry again for the government's silence. I'd like to hear a credible answer to what's going to happen and how are you going to do it? You can attribute that to our, how can I say, ideological dissent. You think the state should be more on the market, more on investment, I think it should be less and I think the arguments are on my side, but not to overthink it. It's 2012 today. We're talking about companies that were essentially ruined in the '90s, and some of them even before that, and then 10, 11, 12 years we keep them artificial. The big question is whether people in these companies, do tax bonds, whether the market and all Serbian citizens are doing a favor or doing damage? If the right restructuring had been approached in the meantime, if they had gone bankrupt, failed, had some of these companies that obviously had no perspective, in the meantime the market would have developed on the other side, the production of these or similar goods and services would have developed on the other side, some of these people might have a job in the meantime, if they were overqualified, so you would have a much smaller problem than you have today. You have, in fact, in the good part of the Serbian economy, all the people who have spent almost their entire working life in an enterprise that in the dubiosis, in the loss, in the restructuring, who have never actually worked until the end of the work they have been educated for, educated and unable to show what their potentials are. You solved 2008, 2009 and 2010 to take over some of these companies. You say that these investments were good, but it's obvious that this situation is more unsustainable and you can't manage them, it's simply not the business of the Serbians, it's a terrible deformation of the market, it's also somewhat preventing private investment and the development of a private initiative, but we're not getting into these theoretical and practical issues right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4291	Thank you. The word is Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4292	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We may be ideologically different and certainly differ ideologically, but I warn you again, you represent a classic liberal or neoliberal model, according to which you say – it's all black and white. It's not all black and white. I agree that one part of the company had long had to end in bankruptcy, but one part of the company is a healthy part of the Serbian economy. Today, there are at least 60 or 100 companies worth recovering from failed privatisations. But if you're indecisive, who's going to do it? There's not enough foreign investment. There's not enough interest in all this. Then someone's got to do it. I don't see anyone but the state. Next, this story about privatisation, here, we have a bunch of privatisations where the state didn't interfere, that the privates took over by themselves. Sometimes for a little bit of money, once set up, sometimes a kilo of fish killed businesses to buy them. What have we achieved? So I'd be very careful in that approach if the state should help. Careful for two reasons. First of all, the state doesn't interfere. I don't think "Serbigas" is disturbing the market. I'll give you an example. We manufacture goods at Azotara at stock market prices. As long as we have stock at stock market prices, there's no mixer working at prices higher than stock exchanges. That went well for the government. If we hadn't taken Agroliv, what would be the price of chicken and who would be doing the manufacture of chicken and where? Certainly not in Serbia and not at these prices. Some laugh at that term "economic patriotism" and I personally don't accept it as an economist, but we have to think about ourselves a little bit. The other thing, seriously, I don't think there's enough interest to be invested here right now, at a time of economic crisis. Who's going to help that people? What are these people going to live on? We have to think about that, too. Is that something costing the state? Yeah. Is that the job of the state? Yeah. I'm not sure that the state, if it adheres to the market principle in the management of these companies, is disrupting the market. On the contrary, there are very good examples of state governance where the state does not disturb the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4293	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4294	I wouldn't answer, but Mr. Bajatovic made a classic accusation that I am a classical liberal or neoliberal. I'm not saying that the situation is black and white, I'm just saying that when you delay what's imminent for 10 years, you do damage to the citizens and that's socially irresponsible policy. It's actually a negative, what you're talking about, social responsibilities. You constantly view all citizens, all taxpayers as necessary as one whole. That's not true. When you help one and do it ineffectively and too long, you cause direct harm to others. That's not fair in the modern state. It's not fair in the country, in a society that has pluralistic interests of individual groups. We'll go into sociology, and we don't have any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4295	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4296	Dear Presidency, Mrs Grubjesic, I understand that you are today a representative of the government and that you should answer the questions of MPs and explain, i.e. you defend the State Guarantee Act to "Srbigas" withdraw, i.e. to contribute additionally to 190m euros. I have seen here all the time that you are actually a passive observer, that is, Mr. Bajatovic represents the government and talks from the government's point of view, or the minister's point of view. We heard in the previous presentation of Mr. Bajatovic the reasons why "Srbijagas" should be in debt - to cover the losses it has to cover, to cover the minus that was made, probably for real reasons, and that is the low price of gas on the market, or the lower price of gas that is sold, than the import parameters of the price that "Srbigas" buys gas on the market. We have some understanding of this emerging situation here. However, there are many things that are unclear and which are contradictory, and I will try to explain these ambiguities and contradictions and ask some questions that are logically imposed. So, "Srbigas" has been in debt in the past few years, 2010, and this year, where the state of Serbia was guaranteed, for about 570m euros, of which 430m euros were withdrawn from the loan that "Srbigas" mainly covered liquid liquidity. In the original 2012 budget, the state of Serbia was supposed to provide guarantees for a 190m-euro loan, rebalanced for an additional 170m euros, which is 360m euros only in 2012. Not all these loans have been withdrawn, but they are simply required by the state to provide guarantees that "Srbigas" is in charge of this kind of money. We got an explanation, although we shouldn't have, from Mr. Bajatovic, but well, he's the most called, he has the most information, that this debt was created because "Srbigas" buys at a higher price of gas, and sells it at a lower market, which protects the standard of citizens and because of the definition of the previous government, we see for now and these, not to raise energy prices because it further endangers the social situation of the population. This simply impoverished Serbian citizenship could not stand. We will not go into the story now why the population of Serbia has been so poor these years, as the standard of Serbian citizens has fallen since 2008 and how we have come into this situation. We understand that it was an economic crisis, but I am not sure that the economic crisis is an excuse for all, that Serbia's poor situation and the difficult social situation of the Serbian population are blamed for the economic crisis. There's a lot of objective, but there's a lot of subjective reasons why that's the case. In order to cover the loss that "Srbigas" achieves by selling gas below the price, the state of Serbia should guarantee that the company is in charge, i.e. the idea of transferring it over a year or two to public debt, given that "Srbijas", as Mr. Bajatovic said, will not be able to repay all these debts. After all, it wasn't "Serbiagas" who set the price for himself, but rather the state, so the state, as he said, should also take over some of those debts, to cover the negative business of "Srbigas". I said in the beginning that we have some understanding of the situation, but we don't understand things. Since gas supplies, by some estimates, directly or indirectly, about a million people, tell me what the logic is that the other six million people cover that difference they use as a benefit in the low price of gas of a million people? Tell me, what is the logic that people living in central Serbia and southern Serbia also cover these losses through their tax budgets that people do not live in that area as a benefit? Tell me, since you stated that "Serbigas" is making losses due to the low price of gas, what is the logic that, if the company is already making losses, the company appears as sponsor of many sports clubs, cultural events, religious, scientific etc? I understand, it's nice and noble of you, to act as a socially responsible firm and to help these spheres that, without the help of the economy, cannot function, but if you're making losses, if the company is having a hard time doing business and if you go into credit debt every year to cover the current liquidity, then it's not logical that the money you make from the gas bill is given to sponsorship and donors that are not so small. According to some estimates, about 300 million dinars of "Srbigas" have invested in these things. That's the data I got from one text that was done by professional people. I take it as information that isn't true until the end, but you're going to say whether it's true or not. I'm sure "Serbigas" is the general sponsor of the basketball club and handball club, if I'm not mistaken, from Novi Sad and sponsor of many events. I don't have the exact amount of protection. It's mostly clubs, organizations, cultural manifestations from Vojvodina territory. Since it's "Serbiagas", I still don't see the logic of why would the rest of Serbia cover those debts, if the gas is sold as goods under the price and clubs that have an indirect benefit of helping "Srbigas" again cover citizens who do not live in that part that has those benefits? You talked earlier about saving firms that are in a difficult position and their restructuring, the cost of social programs, and how it is a socially responsible policy towards Agrosiv, Azotari Panchevo, "Staklari" in Paracino, etc. and told all the time a story that led me to conclude that you speak as a minister of economy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "Srbiagas," as far as I know, is a public enterprise. It was founded to distribute gas, provide Serbia's gas and distribute gas to the population, i.e. large consumers. It's not the role of "Serbiagas" to convert debts, to buy businesses, to save them and to make chicken or artificial fertilizer. It is certainly necessary to conduct this national responsible policy towards domestic enterprises. It's the government's job, or the Ministry of State. I don't know why "Serbiagas" would do that as a company that's in charge of some other problem? The only thing that can be connected here is that chickens can be grown in halls where the gas is used as a heating agent. It's my only connection. It really doesn't make any sense that "Serbiagas" gets into that story. All public enterprises were profiled during the previous period by detaching all non-correspondences from these basic companies and operating special units. Only "Serbigas" spreads jobs and takes over the azotars, takes over the glass mills and stuff like that. I didn't hear it was the government's decision to act that way. The "Serbigas" job is to supply citizens with gas, not to buy enterprises around Serbia or to help. A special story refers to whether "Srbigas" as a company that operates on the market and sells gas, as a public company should finance all these things for which there is no money, or for which it is owed, and is there an end to it? We're in charge last year. We're in charge this year. I guess the same policy will be transferred for next year, to cover the debts. I welcome your proposal or your commitment to end this practice. I think it can be the only sustainable solution. The whole of Serbia should not pay the deplaced price of gas or electricity. This can get some minimum, or optimal level of prices that can and should cover basic costs, and those who cannot pay for it, do social cards for them and for them the state assumes responsibility. This is how the story is broken that this social policy is run by "Srbigas" in this case. In the next case, I don't know, Elektroprivreda Srbija, and in some third company. It's not a public business job. The business of public enterprises is to do positive business, to have minimum costs, not to waste everywhere they come up with, to be responsible enough for the environment they live in, but never to run social policy, do business on the market, buy other firms, intervene wherever they think they need to. It's a government job. It's not a public business business. Because of this behavior every year, they are asked to have the state guarantee that they are in charge of doing business and supplying heat, citizenship, and that the state, that is, all citizens are covering these debts. I don't think it's right for Serbian citizens who don't have that advantage, nor is it good business. On the other hand, there is not a single financial report on the business of "Srbigas" younger than 2008. The latest financial report on the business of "Srbigas" on the site "Srbigas" is from 2008, and the labour informant, which is required to have every public institution, company or the like, stands on the 2007 website. So these are some things you might have to answer us for. In any case, the DSS and its MP club will not support this way of borrowing until you provide us with a guarantee that "Srbigas" as an enterprise has done everything to drain their internal resources, to reduce or minimise the costs within "Srbigas" in terms of employees, in terms of earnings, in terms of other costs that I am sure can be far less. When you prove it to us, then we can talk about how a possible loss will be covered and how to solve this problem systematically. This isn't a system solution. We can now approve that the "Serbigas" is in debt, and after six months we'll be in the same problem that we have to go back to the same story and repeat and do something that's not smart, nor can it provide any benefit in the long run. The system solution implies that the price of gas is sold at the price it has to be and that social policy is run by the state towards those who cannot pay for it and that the company is operating at minimum costs, which cannot be as they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4297	Mr. Bajatovic has a word, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4298	Thank you. Dear colleague, just a few things. Your maths aren't very good. So when you say - a million people use gas, you're wrong. (Dejan Michael, from the place, on what basis do you speak? I'm mentioned. Is there anything else I should say? So math just isn't good. First, it uses a million people who are individual consumers, and what about Belgrade, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin? All these people use cheaper gas. So your math isn't good. The total economy, unfortunately, has crossed the so-called so-called legal solution. Public supply, instead of selling at commercial prices. That's the other problem with you seeing it. The third thing, precisely because everyone is hypersensive to us Vojvodina, we have been very careful that what we finance, we finance in all of Serbia, and I can provide you with a report. Do not carry out separatism in gas sales, but the largest number of consumers and the largest amount of gas is spent in Vojvodina and Belgrade. As for cutting company costs, the participation of all costs of "Srbigas", on all grounds, wages, donations, sponsorship, purchases of everything else, is less than three dinars in the price which is now 35, and should be 47. Therefore, if you can raise the costs of the company to some real five to seven percent, depending on what the price of gas is, I don't think it's too much of the participation of all costs in "Srbigas", those you might call consumer costs. It's not too big. Whether it can be a smaller number of people, whether it can be saved better, works more efficiently, so it always can, that companies do better than "Serbiagas" and do it continuously. A public company can work if it has to do with a minus if it's in the public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4299	Mr. Lapchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4300	You know what, the responsible manager if he's making losses or the responsible host in the house if he doesn't have enough income over the year, then he's not going with his family to the Bahamas for a vacation, but one year he skips, so he's not going at all. That means that three dinars don't mean anything to you at the price of those other costs that "Srbigas" makes, but if the basic price is 35 dinars, and it should be 47 dinars, and you add those three dinars to those costs that aren't necessary, they're not mandatory, then they make an even greater minus. That's exactly what I'm talking about. So you can laugh and act casually, but it certainly isn't funny for Serbian citizens who pay high prices, and they should pay even higher because you behave more comfortablely than the situation and crisis in which the country is allowed. That's what it's all about, Mr. Bayatovic, about the behavior you just stated earlier that it's not necessarily duchy. You know, back in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, there was talk, and I thought the gas power plant in Nis was finished. You didn't mention it at all, and you crossed it. There was talk of a gas hub in Nis, so you crossed it down and explained that it was the will of a Russian partner. We understand that it is the will of a partner from Russia, but answer us what is wrong with that Niš gas power plant that needs to produce electricity for all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4301	Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4302	I wasn't smiling at the citizens of Serbia, I was smiling at you how you understood the matter. I really don't know, you have to pay out of something, and I just said that the total cost of "Serbiagas" is less than three dinars in the current price. That means somewhere the company's cost is about six to seven percent. You'll admit that six to seven percent for the costs of one such company that has 69 branches has 1150 to 1200 employees, it won't be that big. On the other hand, I haven't crossed off any gas hub in Nis, and now it's the Nish gas hub. Someone confused the technical, Serbian system and the southern flow. The South Stream was never planned to go over Nis. So it's never planned. The whole circus was made in Nis, and they're easy citizens. There were three exit routes, only one entrance. Why would someone pay 300, 400km longer transport, and I'm talking about Hungarians, Austrians, Italians and others, who are behind us. Everyone wants to pay the shortest route at the lowest cost. Therefore, the existing South Stream tranche is an engineering route. As far as the Nish gas power plant is concerned, it's currently missing from the National Energy Development Plan, but we've asked it to enter. With Nis and Paracino, there should be 450 megawatts and there can be no heat more than 100 to 150, because Nis has no capacity to take on cogenerations. If you read in the means of public information, I was very precise Novi Sad can go between 450 and 900 megawatts of electricity plus 300 megawatts or 350 megawatts of heat. New Belgrade, 450 megawatts of electricity and 350 megawatts of heat and Panchevo for the needs of the refinery can go from 200 to 450. There'll probably be a Paracino for a hot spot and because there's an investor and there's a Nis. Other cities at the moment do not have the conditions for taking over and transporting electricity and heat. So if you ask me, Nis will be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4303	Mr. Lapčević, here you go, and we're closing a circle of replicas with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4304	You know, when you take out a group like that, someone eats meat, and a cabbage is on average a charm. Three percent of all costs. I've been very precise, no one mentions the salaries, and what about the other expenses I've quoted here, and you're constantly connecting, so everyone's in on it. I'm sure it's in those three dinars, a dinar and a half of something you haven't paid a dime for. Is it? Of course it is. So, I've been trying all this time to be very correct in the debate and to speak with argument, and you want to make an exec out of it. I just want to say that the business of the Serbians is not rational, it's not economically justified and any further borrowing and behavior in principle, when I'm in trouble, I'm going to be in charge of the bank and I don't care what happens after me, it's a sure guarantee that "Srbigas" is going to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4305	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, have answered the floor, we are moving to the order of speakers according to the application for the word. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4306	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to do a little crackdown at the beginning of my discussion, and this is about us continuing one interrupted session today. We interrupted the session to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, and the reason for the urgency of the debate under the law was that members of the NBS Council should be elected. Now, again today, we're getting a notice from the responsible Finance Committee saying it's withdrawing the decision from the procedure so that actually that point nine is not on the agenda of this session. So, the reason the session ended in the end was actually withdrawn. So this is some kind of confusion, such as confusion today at this session over the debate on this 11th item of the agenda, when the bill instead of the mandated proposing defends the director of "Srbigas", i.e. the MP. Then we have some confusion whether Mr. Director, or the MP here, is actually part of the legislative authority, so part of Parliament, or part of the executive government, part of the government. I mean, mostly in the last 100 days of this government, we've had this kind of situation, completely vague with many strange solutions. We've actually heard one key question here today. I think that key question defines actually the entire economic policy of this government that started 100 days ago. So the question is, are we supposed to be running a policy like this? So this was said by the director of "Serbigas" who was otherwise the director during this previous government, otherwise his party was part of the coalition in power in the previous assembly. Now, in fact, one additional question is whether or not this was a rhetorical issue or if someone really understood how much this kind of policy in the economic sphere, in the sphere of borrowing, is in the sphere of the state's relationship with public enterprises and companies and everyone else that is so dependent on the state, the right policy, and whether someone in this government has become aware that the results are so devastating that simple policy has to change. So far, we have not noticed that there is any intention of changing that policy. Today we heard a lot of figures, hundreds, 200, four hundred, five hundred million euros, dollars and anything else. However, the fact is that for 2012 we have a five billion-euro commitment, which is a huge burden for this country, whether it's a budget deficit or all of those, I mean the commitments made on the loans taken. Only interest in 2012 amounts to 90 billion dinars. So I also contribute to the numbering of all these powerful figures at this session by this point of the agenda, and probably also with these figures that I've listed, I'm just further strengthening this non-contamination that otherwise exists in public, whether this country can withstand further borrowings that do not stop. We are today discussing a bill relating to the guarantee of this state for seven loans taken. So that's seven times the interest that's been agreed, seven times the margin, seven times the fees that are also part of those loans. This is about huge amounts of money. On the other hand, the director of Srbigas notes that another new tranche of credit, also for Srbigas, will have to be taken here, some 190m euros. Some social responsibility is mentioned here as one of the primary culprits, or responsible for the fact that gas is bought at one price and sold at a lower price. I'd like to remind you that this social responsibility is the government, and it seems to me to be a valuable story, part of the story and this government as it was part of the previous one. So, if you really intend to be socially responsible under that principle, as you have suggested, when you were established as a Government, I am interested in how you will bring into harmony this fact that it is publicly recognised here that this social policy that has been implemented in relation to this public enterprise, "Srbigas", has shown this kind of creation and generation of damage to this country and to its borrowing. So, how are you going to solve the issue of citizens' standards, how are you going to solve the issue of further borrowing, and I think, if you go too far in debt, normally you're also going to question the survival of this public enterprise. So these are very important questions that I would really like to hear the answer to, because of this whole story, the glass, the vinegar, the livestock and the gas, I don't think we can expect any big results. The question is what results we can expect from this investment of the public company "Srbigas", because if you only think about the start of the construction of the South Stream, or the construction of TE on gas, I think it will remain in some area of unmatched attempt. One public enterprise cannot be an entrepreneur in that sense, in which sense it has acted so far and it is irrelevant whether it is a "Serbiagas" or a JAT, or companies such as "The Railway of Serbia" and so on. We always go back to what is fundamental that this country has problems with public enterprises, has problems with one policy that hasn't happened since yesterday, and that is so, but it's definitely still going on in this policy, no matter what there is a hint that someone might even raise their little voice, I'm talking about the government, that this policy is changing. These public enterprises, in fact, represent the shorts of one budget that actually has this ambition, that in the state of Serbia is the creator of all life, economy, economy, investment, imports and exports, and in which case it is normal to compromise privatisation, it is normal to highlight all those bad privatisations, and not to ask why some privatisations were bad, where who was when these privatisations were done, why no one was responsible and is not now responsible for any wrong privatisations and why in that EU, in which we are reportedly humming, this privatisation is one normal thing and one normal functioning of the economy, economy and in fact private companies are those who represent one engine and which is based on that standard and life that exists in the EU. We've done one very strange thing out of this whole privatisation, because we don't want to end it in any way, we take all the responsibility to privatization, and all the problems arise precisely from this relationship between the state, the state property, the state property to privatisation. I think that whenever we talk about giving guarantees and approving these guarantees for loans that have already been taken and taken in the future, we need to think carefully about where these guarantees are going to end, or where that money is guaranteed and which, in fact, these public enterprises in whose favour the guarantees and are given, spend all the money and whether we really have the right control, do we really want to have the right control of the spending of that money and do we really think that this could take another 10, 20 and 50 years with this level of public debt, debt, and in fact, centralisation and support of everything that really should represent some kind of initiative. The initiative, and it turns out, is best when it comes from privates, when it comes from some who understand the work they want to do. The state is a very bad employer and the state is actually a very bad creator of an economic and economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4307	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4308	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing to me that today when we are discussing giving 200m euros, and more, of course, with interest, the guarantee of state money to cover the debt of a public enterprise, there are so few MPs sitting in this room. It simply speaks of one relationship between all of us here, especially those who aren't here, about how the state's money is spent. This year, 360m euros are scheduled to go to cover "Serbigas" debt, which you will recognise is one huge sum. We're dividing our hair into fours here, for every penny, for every expense, but only 360 million is foreseen, so this bill and the budget rebalance to cover the debts of the Serbs. It is one serious sum, where decisions of course are made by the National Assembly, by MPs who do not attend this debate and cannot hear all the remarks and all the reasons why it is not necessary to do so, arguments why it should be done. According to me and the Democratic Party of Serbia, it is almost incomprehensible that every six months we hear the same story. Here's where we're going to settle the question, and this is the last time. You know, it's like giving a drug addict, like when a junkie comes looking for drugs and here's another time and then it stops. Of course it won't stop, of course we'll be in this situation for the next six months. Let's get back to the subject. I expected the government's representatives on this agenda to give us an argument and an explanation of a bill like this. During the debate on rebalancing and the presence of the Minister of Energy in this assembly, we asked for an explanation. From Minister Dinkic, when we talked about the rebalancing, we asked for an explanation, our amendment was related to the debt of "Serbiagas" and Minister Dinkic said – the first time I will give you an explanation of the structure of costs, debts and everything else that is related to the financing of the debts of "Serbiagas" by all Serbian citizens. All Serbian citizens finance the debt of a public enterprise, a business, through guarantees provided by the state and of course by "Serbigas" will not be able to repay, where these debts will be covered from the budget. Just to remind myself that the total social contributions, to raise by 100% in the budget, are 300m euros. Just to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, the amount of funds that are given to cover the debts of "Srbigas", 300m euros, is the amount to increase the social spending by 100% according to the Republic of Serbia's current budget, and of course by the future. So these are child benefits, various social benefits for all categories that are subject to this category, under this item. So we here, in this way, are making it very easy to give without any reason by the government, why 360m euros for this year. Did a representative of the government tell us how much the total responsibility of the Serbs was? We're deciding this here, and we don't know what the total responsibility of the Serbians is. When you go to the bank to ask for a loan, they'll first ask you for a credit card report, what your receipts are, if you have other loans, which are credit card debts, on all other grounds. We here need to make a decision without knowing what the total responsibilities of "Serbiagas" and what they were in 2007, 2008 and what they are now. The minister mentioned it was over a billion euros to be transferred to Serbian citizens. We haven't heard that number here, and we need to decide that for another 190m euros plus interest, we owe the Republic of Serbia. I think that, that the citizens of Serbia and we here, the MPs, you are obliged to give us at least some explanation for what kind of structure is the second, how much do citizens owe, how many individuals, how much does the economy owe? It is possible to calculate exactly what the cost is and how much the debt of "Srbigas" is based on what I say, the subsidized prices, at one household, is that 100 euros a year, is that more. It is possible to calculate the cost at the price of heating, to say in large cities, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, which are heated on gas. It is possible to calculate exactly what is the subsidy price. We here linearly all, linearly given to everyone. Well, he's not in the same position as who lives on Dedinj or who works in this agency, as my colleague Radojko Obradovic mentioned, for energy efficiency, who has three times more earnings than the employees of the Serbian presidency and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They're not in the same situation. I don't need a team working in that agency to subsidize the price, or those living on Santa, or living, I don't know where in Belgrade, New Sad, there. They don't need a subsidy price. But for those who live in Black grass, Babusnica or other underdeveloped municipalities, they need a subsidized price, and they may need to pay 10% of the price of gas, and these should pay a full price. Therefore, the way the government is trying to subsidise the price of gas is completely wrong. We fall out of error into error, we owe the state. Now, the state will owe with all this, 360 million, over a billion, but we don't know that, and no one has given us an explanation why it's over a billion. That's how he grew up debt by age, and we don't know that either. It's not a disputed price of gas coming from Russia, it's a controversial way of charging that gas, which is charged to, the tax costs of "Serbiagas", the organisation "Srbigas". How many people have been employed in the last four years at Srbigas? Can anyone tell us? They say it's more than 1,000. Is that true? That's all you have to tell us when you come here to ask us for 360m euros. You have to tell us what the debts are and how they came to be, what is the structure of the debts? Surely not all debts were created as subsidies for citizens and businesses. When we talk about subsidising the economy, why would a Babusnica citizen pay through taxes and through the budget of the Republic of Serbia that a business does not pay gas debts, and that all goes in the same basket. We will all be here and all citizens will pay the debts of some private company that does not pay gas and which today, tomorrow, will be liquidated, will go into bankruptcy and its claims will be non-refundable, and all of us will pay, and the economy is always in a privileged position to preserve economic activity, that is, not to look, to turn the vote, as the citizens return after two, three unpaid bills. We are in a situation, that we here as MPs need to make one decision based on the government's words that these debts exist and that we have to cover them, without any argument that will support why we need reckoning and everything else. I think you owe the citizens of Serbia that explanation. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports that all social spending is raised and that they are higher, and during the debate on the budget, we will propose that social spending be higher than this year and than is foreseen by the government's 2013 budget. We believe that this way is completely wrong, because it cannot be linearly subsidized and the economy, private enterprises, heat, citizens living across Serbia from luxury settlements, Dedinj, Novi Sad, Nis, anything else, to those in Babusnica, Crno Trava, wherever the gas comes. I don't think that's the right way and that the state should draw a line and say – social giving that, for those who are the most endangered, whether it will be through the creation of a social map, through an existing network of social institutions or in any other way. But in this way, simply, this is totally unacceptable to us, without any explanation. What is personally amazing to me, which is the ease of talking here about spending hundreds of millions of euros. It's like a song, it's here with a smile on it about hundreds of millions of euros. These are serious figures, and we as the Democratic Party of Serbia are simply aware that there are some debts that have been created realistically as a consequence, to say, conditionally speaking, subsidized gas prices. We have a rational explanation, to tell us this is the subsidized price of gas for the economy, for households, for the citizens, this is what it is for private enterprises, and that we have this scale, that we have this calculation, that we have the cost structure of the "Serbigas". Here, Mr. Lapcevic mentioned that there was no final account on the site "Srbiagas" in 2008. So how can we see how much costs go for marketing? How much does "Srbiagas" from its minus make a greater minus the credit it takes to finance various sports clubs, events and so forth? There must be order in public finances in Serbia, because the debt now being made is totally unacceptable. I am sorry that Minister Dinkic is not here, which advocates restrictive control of spending, pooling all the revenues in the government's budget, whether they are tax, whether those created by the work entrusted to certain public enterprises, administrations and agencies are to gain. In this way, we have an insight into the extent of the resources that the state of Serbia, all agencies and all the profits, but then we share the money, 360 million. This is how we throw in a well without knowing why. In a word, we believe that some of the costs incurred through the subsidy quasi, the citizens of Serbia and the businesses of Serbia are covered, in general, by businesses in Serbia. It will then all come down to us and then in the 2016 budget, when loans are due that are not paid, or for 2017, we will have an item – the return of the loan war on the basis of "Srbigas" taking loans, as we now have in the budget for this year. The state will pay it back. No one else will. That's why the state provides guarantees and the Assembly has to declare these guarantees, because neither the bank nor anyone else trusts anyone anymore, neither trusts the government. They believe only if the Assembly declares that it is a valid guarantee that can ensure the return of those funds. We are extremely dissatisfied with the way the government explained the new debt of the Republic of Serbia of 190m euros. Basic debt plus interest that will follow. Without any debt structure, what is the real debt based on quasi subsidies, what is the real debt based on the increased number of employees that are created, what is the real debt based on all other items, which are combed by all other companies and whose report we are adopting here. I expect the Government to approach the Assembly a little more responsibly and give one rational explanation. Not to us, but to the citizens of Serbia, that only one year will spend 360m euros, not knowing how much the real and real debt of "Serbiagas" is now estimated to be over a billion euros. The 15.5 billion we owe, whether it's in that 15.5 billion or an additional billion, we don't know. In fact, we don't know anything, and we need to make a decision to assign citizens of Serbia to 360m euros twice during the vote. So it's unacceptable for us at the DSS and we'll never and never support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4309	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4310	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, since it's a matter of incorrect information to the public, by fellow Michaels.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4311	Just name a member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4312	I don't know exactly, incorrect public information, article 107. Please, if you find it appropriate to search for accurate information, why are you so casually manipulating? The first thing that you've confused the public, you're unsuspectingly skillful about it, it's not about debt loans, it's about liquid liquidity. Part of the debt will be paid by consumers from the gas collection which is lagging behind. I've already stated, 300 days are paid a part late, part of the unrealistic price, etc. If you want the exact information, feel free to say so, we'll deliver it to you. It's not a billion and more figure, which is what you're talking about. The current duty on all grounds is 630m euros. Of which 220 million are "over drafts" and short-term debts, which will iron out with the existing loan. Third thing, it's not about spending this year. I said it was a complete debt from last year and this year for liquid liquidity. Right now, they owe, like, heat, petrochemicals, businesses, etc. It's mostly state-owned enterprises, not private, as you're trying to honor. So I'd like to pray, in informing the public, you were right in the part of things, that's what I have to say. So there are non-selective social policies that are too expensive. That's what we're talking about, you have the legitimate right to ask the government to know. There's no need to manipulate it. It's not about debt or debt. The part will go that way as a public debt, because it's not possible to iron it out of business, but the good part will be paid. The fact that we can't even charge from the heat last year, where do we find the money to pay for the gas delivery? What magic wand? No problem, we shut down Belgrade and there's no heating.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4313	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4314	I will not abuse the Rules of Procedure to give the replica. It's simple, I'm picking up the line. Mr. Bayatovic, you're right. I've got to talk to you in person, because I don't have a single piece of information. That's exactly what I was talking about, that neither the government nor you provided us with any information on the debt of the Serbs. What are we paying for now? Now you've informed us that we're paying 360m euros just last year. So this year he's waiting another 360 for his current business and for his debts. We are here in a situation to cover what already exists, to have new debts waiting for us, as we have heard from the Minister of Energy, the price of gas will not rise by the end of this year. It means we have new debts to come. That's what I was talking about to Mrs. Grubeshic. We need a calculation and a debt structure, to know how long it's due so far, and how long is that debt going to be by the end of the year? If we know that the price of gas won't rise by the end of the year, it means that this debt will accumulate, and no one here has told us, nor has he given us any valid argument that we can discuss this issue. We can pick up the data based on what we hear, we can talk here. No information from the government or anyone on this subject, except that "Srbijigas" should give guarantees of 190 million plus 170 million in rebalancing, that's 360 million. We didn't get anything. Then you give us a sermon for saying it like that. And how else can we talk? What is the relationship to a congregation that has no single argument? Otherwise, the gas is no lower than the Babusnica, but everyone will pay the debts that arise. Leskovac and Vranje will pay the debts created for the gas, this way of borrowing "Serbiagas", if it continues with the support of the government that gave this bill. So without valid arguments, without valid energy policy in this area, we cannot in any way support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4315	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4316	Mr. Michael, I have no doubt that you are a very informed man. All that data you're looking for is on the APR. I don't have to keep them on the Serbian site. It says there – the increase in the number of staff in the consolidated balance sheet is based on the takeover of the subsidiary. In the Serbians, in four years of this management, less than 60 people have been employed, and we've taken over the South Stream and the Banatical Court and Security and everything else that's going on. So it's enough to know that you're reading the consolidated balance. If you don't know, I'm sure your colleagues do. It's not about thousands of employees, but when it comes to consolidated balances, then all the subsidiaries are there. It means azotara and an MSK and everything that's part of "Serbiagas." That's the wrong information in the campaign. So, that data you're talking about, you have it on the APR and you can look at it. The only thing you don't have is a current, short-term "over drafts" duty, but you're an experienced man, and you could, by means of a public information commissioner, or a direct letter, you might get an answer. To box up information that the government didn't give you or didn't give you "Serbiagas", if we're just pushing it to the finish line. I'm not sure that this situation, in which you have not been objectively well informed as MPs, would you try a little political abuse?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4317	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dejan Mihailov, and that closes the circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4318	I am disappointed by the fact that we MPs need to box state data in our public enterprises. That we should go around, through the trustee, probably suing each other, complaining to Strasbourg, the UN to get state data from the Serbians, which is a public enterprise. If you said that if the state believes that there is an obligation to "Srbigas" subsidise one part of the cost of gas to Serbian citizens, also on the law where "Serbigas" has its public role, public function, there must be an obligation or at least a moral obligation to give the same report to citizens, to this assembly, to the Government. To present it to us when we are discussing this point, not that we MPs have to box around Serbia to get data on the state of "Srbigas". We know very well what the subsidiaries are, what this is and what it is, but we want to get that information as a contribution to this bill, we want to get it from the government, not to go after Serbia and fight for data. I don't think that's a tone, or the way to talk in this assembly, that MPs go around Serbia, boxing for data. That's highly unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4319	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. National MP Zoran Ostojic is not here, so the next word is National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4320	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, the agenda item is this proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia, and this debate has shown how much data it takes for Members of Parliament to make quality decisions and how many of these data are not in the laws that we are discussing. The topic is the proposal for a guarantee law, a total of 190m euros in seven commercial banks. What effect does this law have on public debt? What's the public debt, anyway? The question and the controversy have opened up in public over the past few months. Turns out there are several different laws that have different scopes. The National Bank runs its public debt accounting methodology, the government of the Republic of Serbia runs its methodology. According to the Serbian government's methodology, the public debt was about 16 billion euros a month ago. After that, a billion-dollar Eurobond show came in. The NBS debt is about a billion and 700m euros not accounted for in this mathematics, 500m euros in unguaranteed debt by local self-government, a billion and 300m euros in debt due to the services provided by goods, businesses and various other entities. It's all a public debt. What effect does this have on Serbia's economy? It's not possible it doesn't have any effect. Those debts have to come back. In 2007, the cost of interest was around 50m euros. In 2013, interest costs without principals are 850m euros, 20 times higher. If someone says that borrowing and spending beyond the border and beyond has no effect, they don't know the elemental stuff. I completely agree with the way Mr. Bajatovic has accessed the analysis of this whole thing. First, this can't be viewed as an isolated loan. It is an isolated loan from the "Serbiagas" aspect, but from the aspect of the state and from the aspect of the National Assembly, far from being an isolated loan. It turns out that the happy environment is in a given situation that the director of the Serbians is here because he actually gave answers to all those questions that don't stand in the way. All those questions I wanted to ask, Mr. Bajatovic, in part, answered. The first question is, how much does "Srbigas" owe today? We can read the reports. There is no report for 2012, so if nothing else, at least there are, the data is at least a year late. According to the Public Debt Administration, "Srbigas" owes commercial banks 380m euros and owes 50m euros to the IBRD, according to loans approved in the previous period. In the previous few years, the National Assembly approved a 210m-euro loan in 2011. According to the Public Debt Administration, the loan is realised in that amount. 170m euros were approved, the Bank of Inteza, according to public debt data, and the loan was realised. These are loans, at that time they were more favourable than today, let's say the interest rates are 5%, but the loan and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for various projects, but also for liquidity. The loan is incomparably more favourable, four or five times less interest. That loan was only realised in a third of its amount. So it's just realized for liquid liquidity. It's not realized for projects. From the point of view of the state, at least what the Government is declaring, capital projects are extremely important to us and it seems to me that it was much more important to realise these 100 million that were to be invested in projects. This has only been approved by the Assembly in the last three years. As for other loans, short-term loans in the country by various banks, Unicredit Bank, Raiffeisen Bank, Vojvodjanska Banka, Findomestik Banka, AIK Banka, about 80m euros. Foreign credit -- the Moscow Bank 100m euros, an old Russian debt unregulated, according to data at the end of 2011, I have no data that today, $43m, gas transit through Hungary is $11m, a commitment to Jugoros Gas 76m 950,000. The financial report, which Mr. Bajatovic air-conditioned, page 34 of the total 43, most significant obligations towards suppliers abroad "Gasprom Moscow", Russian Federation, $42.307.585, so-called. the foreign debt "Mol" Budapest, Hungary, 11.100.243 dollars, transit through Hungary, and obligations towards suppliers expressed in dollars 76.950.401 and related to the commitment of the gas to "Yugoros gas". That's exactly the report you've been referencing my colleague Michael. So, considering all this, it's obvious that the debts of the Srbigas are huge. In the government's plan of the Republic of Serbia, in the public debt position, Serbianagas is scheduled to borrow a 190m loan, to provide guarantees for liquid liquidity, 9.5m for the realisation of Fijat gas-related contracts in Kragujevac, 30m euros for the implementation of the South Stream project and another 170m euros for liquidity loans. It is obvious that from all this data, we can add them in different ways, and whether it will show that it is 650 or 680 or 730, of course it is very important, but the fact that "Srbigas" cannot pay it back and the fact is that these loans, like many others, will sooner or later become a commitment of the Republic of Serbia and will become a public debt, as is proposed for a commitment to drug suppliers. Then what is Serbia's public debt? How many payments are there going to be in a few years? In what way will we even be able to talk about any development policy, social policy and anything else? Development policy exists, social policy exists, education exists, but only in countries that can pay for it. Countries that can't pay for it can't even run politics. If we're talking about this loan, that's where I totally agree with you, the government needs to come out with its strategy. We haven't heard that strategy yet. We don't know exactly what the priorities are. The other day we discussed several loans the government proposed, again from different areas. Obviously, there is no clearly defined strategy when selecting priorities. You've made us quite afraid by the fact that the government obviously doesn't have a clear picture of how it's going to run politics in public enterprises and how it's going to run energy supply policy, because we can do this for another year or two, while there's a possibility of borrowing, while there's a possibility of finding the resources. You're an MP like me. You know that the law was passed seven days ago, that by law the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget, due to problems with the Agrobanks and the accession of the Postage Savings Company were several hundred million euros. If anything happens to Vojvodina Development Bank, it will again be the obligation of the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are not things that can encourage us. I fully agree with you that social policy is being run in one way, that public enterprises are being run in another way, that economic policy is being managed correctly. Any defect in policymaking will sooner or later cost us more. Any problem we avoid today to solve, we postpone it for tomorrow, it'll cost us a lot more. I don't agree with you on just one thing. What's the difference between the government and the opposition? The opposition says there's something to be done. The opposition proposes what needs to be done, and the government and the one who has instruments does not have a "need" in its dictionary, but explains the concrete measures that problems are being addressed. It's the only difference between the government and the opposition. The opposition here doesn't decide whether the air conditioning system in this room works or not. The opposition in the Serbian Parliament doesn't even ask about it. The government has taken responsibility, has a majority in the Assembly, has chosen its own government, and it needs to solve problems. Pronunciations don't serve anything. We can all look for excuses together, but I think it's completely irrelevant who was the Minister of Energy in the Government of Greece five years ago, who was Minister of Education in the Government of Ireland seven years ago, who is more interested in these countries? They have problems they can't solve anymore. The way the problems are solved in Serbia, the way they are proposed in Serbia in the National Assembly of Laws and the way the Government of the Republic of Serbia behaves, does not give us any hope, just points to the fact that we can expect every year harder than the previous one.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4321	Thank you. Dusan Bajatovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4322	I'm sorry, I must have pressed accidentally. I had no intention of answering the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4323	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic, on what grounds did you answer? (Milorad Mijatovic, from the post: as head of the parliamentary club. All right, I'll just read what's up to me. Since we no longer have a registered candidate on the lists of parliamentary groups, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4324	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable Members of the People, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have come to the floor not because of this guarantee law, because I don't understand it very much, but I am very pleased that the debate has begun, a little bit more, on the social state. I'm a bit afraid, our MP club says it's a Social Democratic Party, and I see that all MPs have now become co-democrats. I think we're going to have to change our firm or at least the name of our party very quickly, because everyone is now talking about social cards, about the social state, but in one way that I don't think is good. Please, we're talking about Serbia as a social state. The social state is expensive. I ask the question – why is solving social problems done in such a way that the part of the job is carried by "Srbigas"? Why am I saying that? I'll start with "Agrove." Agroliv is in one small place, and there are 1,500 people in that Agroliv. If we close Agroliv, be assured that we are free to take the title of the boards off of Cereals, because low won't be able to live there because they won't have anything to live on. As a unionist, I have asked Mr. Bajatovic very much to find a solution for these people and I ask the question – why do we not have adequate social policy? If the government contributed to "Serbigas" has a part of the social dimension, then we have to say this at this point, to point out that it has received a job that may not be theirs. I also ask the question – has anyone thought about why Agroliv is wrongly privatized? Why are a lot of assets out of Agroziv and the rest of them workers, who I have to tell you are working in extremely difficult conditions, for that little salary they get there, and they're very happy when they get it? To go there to see these are inhuman conditions of life and work. I've been to all these companies and I know how it goes. We're talking about "Azotari." "Azotara" in Pancheva also had privatisation. Feel free to say it was a robbery privatisation. Why? When bought, one part of the Azotare was cut off, sold for 30m euros. Did anyone else answer for that? I haven't read the executive verdict yet, and I can ask – who's going to talk about it? We are talking about 24 privatisations that the EU is to us that we need to review them and give the answer - why is this done the way it was done? There are many more privatisations that have been done in one illegal way, and therefore, as my colleague Vlad Ilic said last night, we have rudely rich and many poor. I can also talk about Petrochemy, because it's the same firm that went through the same situation. When we talk about social cards, of course we want an adequate social policy. I know this is about large sums, it's millions of euros, and a proper social policy would contribute to having a situation like this, to get help from someone who really needs it. I agree that people's MPs, as well as many citizens of Serbia, should not give us the benefit of electricity, the benefited gas, too, so that they can pay both kindergartens and schools freely, but most of the citizens of Serbia who live in poverty can't do it. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia insists and demands that social cards be delivered and that social assistance be given to those who really deserve it. Of course, there are still many ways to increase that social assistance to Serbian citizens. We're talking about the Law of Origin of Property all the time, we're talking about the Public Procurement Act, we're finally gonna have all these laws here. Only by increasing taxes on the property of those who have unwarrantedly been rich, will we be able to help a large number of Serbian citizens to endure this crisis, which is great. That is why I can tell you that we will support this law and we will also insist that the social democratic idea, and even if everyone becomes a Social Democrats, pass in Serbia. This will mean that Serbia will survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4325	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4326	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would not even report that several thesis in the previous discussion has not been presented here regarding the fact that it turns out that the citizens of Vojvodina are in some way subsidized as gas consumers by people who do not use gas and allegedly live in other parts of Serbia. That is true, but what should be known, or put into context of this kind of thesis, is that all oil and gas are also produced in Vojvodina. I think those who have spoken praises about the gas arrangement and "South Stream", and if we have already donated "NIS", we should not criticise the situation in which Mr. Bajatovic is, and that is that we are still paying gas at the prices at which they pay countries that have not done such a thing. Once called the Public Enterprise "Naftagas", which was later converted into NIS. The "South Stream" is gone, and the public company "Srbigas" is now in a position to be in debt with a minority of all banks ready to finance. It's just amazing there's no item in the budget, if it's already known in advance that "Srbigas" will work with a loss, not to allocate the funds in the budget that this loss will cover. Since the state of Serbia is now providing sovereign guarantees for the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", the second one says that the budget is able to be owed much more favourably than is now in a state-of-the-art public enterprise that has no balance, which would allow it to be in debt. If we don't make some long-term strategy related to our energy balance, one thing is absolutely certain, and that is that we will quickly come into a situation that we will fall into debt slavery towards those who deliver this gas to us and I think the consequences will be long-term, with just over the energy debts of some of the suppliers practically being able to take over half of Serbia's economy. Here among the banks that gave these guarantees, we see that the Russian Bank still gave the largest amount – 70 million, since the "Folks Bank" was bought by the "Second Bank", so of course they want to lend final customers, but it would be absolutely necessary for Serbian Government representatives to sit down and make some kind of long-term arrangement, where we will see if there is a "South Stream" or not. Then we will come to the question – which is why and how we sold NIS and at what price, since today we see that NIS is extremely profitable, except that no one has told the public the main cause of this profitability, which is that there has been an increase in the exploitation of domestic oil and gas from domestic sources that we also donated, and in this way it is now willingly NIS has become profitable compared to that previously, and we know that every normal state of the domestic reserve is guarding, and it is relying at least half on imports, which is no longer the case for us. We will have a situation very quickly that we will run out of domestic springs and oil and gas, and that we will enter debt slavery and there is nothing that we can do to the Russian Federation and that will allow Serbia to sort of disengage the position and we will be in a constant deficit. All in all, it is absolutely clear why "Srbigas" must receive guarantees from the state and be in debt, but such a situation will not be sustainable in the long term. Once again, I would like to draw attention to my fellow MPs that they are not burdensome to the citizens of Vojvodina in some way being subsidized by people who do not live there because this primarily refers to the fact that the biggest consumers in Vojvodina are in the economy and given that the population of the real sector is on Vojvodina territory, I am sure that Mr. Bajatovic knows best why the biggest gas consumption is right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4327	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4328	Let me give you one final word. We heard in today's debate a lot of information and information about the state of "Srbigas", although not from the government's representative, Mrs Grubjesic, from whom we should receive these data, but indirectly. We have heard that the MPs who need to decide and raise their hands, that is to say, to push the button to vote for the "Serbiagas" additional 190m euros, if they want some information on the state of "Srbigas", how many employees there are, how many average salaries, how much they spend on the team and other things, should actually call Rodoljub Šabić and get that information through him. I think it's a key sentence that reflects the situation in this company at all. It is necessary for the Assembly and the MPs who have elected citizens to approve each time and to guarantee that "Srbigas" can withdraw loans, to know that in a year it will turn into a public debt that will cover all citizens of Serbia, and that if they want to know what it is doing in "Srbigas", what state the company is in, how much it owes, and how much it spends on things that are not essential, they should write a letter to the director or ask Rodoljub Sabic to officially request that information as a trustee of public importance. I think it's extremely unserious and extremely not to say impertinent. When a citizen asks for credit in a bank, all in a row the bank officials ask for, from how much property he has to the blood group, how much he's in debt, how much he's capable of paying, through the guarantees of his loved ones, cover. Here we are to decide whether "Srbigas" should be in debt further cannot get that information, but we must look officially through other institutions. It's a disrespect for parliament first. It's two stories about a colleague talking about how inadequate social policy is. I must remind you, without a desire to challenge the replica, sir who spoke about inadequate social policy, the president of your party has been in Serbia's previous governments for at least five years, and I don't understand how you call this policy conducted by your party president as a minister and the government in which your party president took part. You were at least five years old, and it seems to me that Mr. Minister has been involved in creating social policy in Serbia for the past 12 years. Now you call it inadequate. You deny yourself. You could talk about both the social map and the ways to help socially endangered citizens to implement it so far, find a way to do it. We have come to this point in 2012, after 12 years of talking about how a social map should be done and how Serbia's budget should not be equally financed and touched by both those who have and those who do not, we are talking about how a social map should be done. For 12 years, we have been talking about the need to make a social map and to this day it is not done and we are coming into the situation that all citizens of Serbia who pay taxes should cover the debts from Agrobanka that we have come to because of the robbery of Agrobanka, because of irresponsible behaviour, because of tycoon ties, political ties and all citizens of Serbia will pay those debts. Due to inadequate pricing policy in "Serbia" and poor financial policies in "Serbia" all Serbian citizens will again have to pay to cover these debts through new borrowing. I think it's extremely unfair of those people who aren't to blame. What I care about is that someone took a loan and didn't want to pay back now as a taxpayer I'm covering it up, and it was caused by the previous government's cap and fist giving and robbing Agrobank for example, or that now the one who lives in a 500-square villa and doesn't know how much he pays taxes based on profit... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, he's supposed to pay the same price of gas as he who has 20 squares and doesn't have any receipts. I think social policy needs to be removed from public enterprises. We can't support this law because we don't have a single argument that convinces us that Srbiagas is doing business rationally and that's why we need to cover further debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4329	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4330	I have to talk to my colleagues from the DSS. The protector of the name is often imputed and Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic's reputation is seen. Everyone is responsible for his job and thus Minister Ljajic, who served as minister of labour and social policy in the previous government, cannot be responsible for the previous 12 years. I would remind my colleague that from their ranks, too, the minister of labour and social policy was Mr. Lalovic, and it was not done then either. We do not serve here to protect ministers, but to do our best for the state and the system in which we are. You know the previous governments were coalition. There was no hearing or understanding of adequate social policy. If it were, we'd have a system solution, we'd have everything we need. Unfortunately, we didn't have that. We had a privatisation where it was said to privatize, let's do all that, this country will blossom. The privatisations have passed, the country has fallen into great poverty. That's what I've been talking about, and it's been 12 years. What I will advocate is strengthening the institutions of the system, making clear policies, so one of these policies is social policy and a dinar that separates itself for social policy must go to those who need it most and most. That's what we're gonna stand for, and that's what we want as a SDP. Just that and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4331	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the proposals of the action from the agenda of this session to be delivered as soon as possible. I'm now setting a break for up to 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in the particulars of the 1st item of the agenda – draft law on amnesty, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Susana Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technology, I have called on the sittings to attend: Dr. Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Dr. Milisav Čogurić, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration and Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department for Normal Affairs and International Co-operation at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – the proposal of the Amnesty Law you have received amendments submitted by MPs: Janko Veseinović, Marijan Rističević, Zlata Đerić and Dubravka Filipovski and amendments of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4333	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. A bill of amnesty. With this proposal, I have tried to correct, correct Article 1 of this bill, which I believe is very dangerous for the overall legal system in the country, in terms of the fact that criminal sanctions should be a deterrent from committing criminal acts, to be for the purpose of prevention and to be some kind of state repression against those who commit crimes, again in order to prevent them and not some potential perpetrators of criminal acts from committing these crimes. Article 1 The draft law on amnesty, which I have submitted to the amendment, has practically accepted general amnesty for all criminal acts, except for the crimes listed in Article 2 which are practically negligible exceptions. Addressing Minister Obradovic, whom I truly highly appreciate, I think he did a proper job in the government where he was before, it will be much harder for him in this government that knows neither the direction nor the path, nor the goal to go, but in any case I wish him a lot of success and this discussion is not directed towards him, but towards the applicant of this law, which I assume is the Ministry of Justice. I suppose he's here today with circumstances, since the other ministers are busy, because I don't see any connection between what he's doing and this law. So, in Article 1. The bill on amnesty, I will also use the time of the parliamentary group, is said to be released from the execution of 25% of the sentence imposed in prison of persons who have been convicted of criminal offences prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia or have been prescribed by the laws which have ceased to apply, which are at the date of entry into force of this law, at the time of the entry into force of this law, on the maintenance of the prison in the Republic of Serbia, or have not yet entered into prison or whose transfer for the purpose of maintaining the sentence abroad. We know that these days, there have been hastening judgments to bring these individuals under attack, under quotes, of this law. This amnesty freed persons who were first sentenced to prison for the first time in the day of entry into force of this law for up to three months and who were largely released from the sentence of imprisonment, and persons who were first sentenced to prison for the first time to three to six months are released 50% of the sentence imposed. So those who are sentenced to prison for up to three months immediately go home, those who have been sentenced to prison for up to six months are honored for three months, and all those who have been sentenced to prison for up to 30 years are forgiven for one quarter of the sentence for the most serious crimes. Sentences from 30 to 40 years are said very rarely in our judiciary. A very wide circle of faces is covered and is practically a general amnesty. My proposal was for this amnesty to be covered by persons who were sentenced to jail for up to six months, so that their sentence would be reduced to 50%. It would also have the effect of prevention and sanctioning for crimes committed. I'm undermining, I believe that our judiciary is expressing itself in a large number of cases of minimum punishment. This means that these penalties are, in some way, minimal, but not wanting to interfere with the legal practice of our courts, I accept that a model like this could be accepted. Even, I wouldn't mind if the state had provided measures to take all these criminals and up to 30 years in terms of their resociation, in the sense that when they come from prison, when 3,500 of them come out of prison, or in the first wave of 1,500 and later 3,500, it's one large group of people, to be accepted, to provide them with rehabilitation measures and to be released on condition, and if they commit a criminal offence in the next period to continue to endure the sentence. No, they're unconditionally released, and those are the faces for the most serious crimes. Now, I'm going to lend you, without her knowledge, the Criminal Code, so I'm going to read you what crimes will be found at the freedom of the person to this Article 1 that I have submitted the amendment to. A person convicted of crimes against life and body, murder, serious murder, murder at birth, murder of a child, deprivement of life and compassion, etc., I will not read all crimes against life and body. So all these pieces are about amnesty. So, from murder to murder, etc. This amnesty also includes persons who have committed crimes against the freedom and rights of a man and a citizen such as violations of equality, unlawful deprivation of freedom, kidnapping, coercion, I could read to you members of the Criminal Code but I think I need, extortion, abuse and torture, endangering security, etc. All these faces will be at large once you gentlemen have passed this law. This law is not as you lied to us, adopted for woodwork, as some MPs are when other MPs speak, they sleep, and they convince us these previous days. This isn't an amnesty for perjury. This is an amnesty for perpetrators of the most serious crimes, such as crimes against election rights, such as violations of the right to vote. Crimes against labour rights, crimes against honor and reputation, insults, slanders, crimes against marriage and family, a complete body of crimes against marriage and family, such as bimarriage, an extramarital community with a minor, the abduction of a minor, the change of family status, the abandonment and abuse of a minor, not giving up support, violation of family obligations, childbirth. All these crimes you gentlemen from the ruling coalition put into the Amnesty Act and abolized those faces, you will let them go free without any resociation or follow-up of those faces. You've also amnested the perpetrators of criminal acts against intellectual property, not to bother you with criminal acts that belong to that group. Crimes against property, theft, theft, robbery, theft, fraud, petty theft, extortion, etc. You've amnested crimes against the economy, counterfeiting money, issuing checks and using credit cards without cover, tax evasion, money laundering, causing bankruptcy, etc. I can't, time limits me because 99% of the crimes are covered by this amnesty. Crimes against human health, enabling, using intoxicating drugs, unconsciously providing medical help, non-infectious medical care, nadrilekting, etc. All of this is covered by this amnesty law. Crimes against the environment, such as environmental pollution, killing and abuse of animals. Then, the forest theft that individual MPs concentrated on. Crimes against the general security of people and property, causing general dangers like we did in Novi Sad when they burned in the discotheque young children due to someone's negligence. Destroying and damaging public devices, not removing dangers. Don't forget that except for the crimes that I have cited against life and body, there are crimes that threaten the state, the rule of law, that people are locked up in houses in the duchy, not just duchess villages, to organize night guards, not party guards like in Kragujevac, but guards to save their lives and their families. You people who have persecuted these people, taken their money, strangled them, killed them, released them, or forgiven them. You're talking about fighting crime in Serbia? You're showing exactly how you fight crime. Crimes against computer data security. Criminal acts against state authorities are even covered by an amnesty act. Preventing an official from performing an official business. So, the police, officers who did honorably, lost many of their lives, you let those faces go. You're letting the freedom of a person who committed crimes cause, racial, religious hatred through a kind of cheerleading violence. To remind you only of a statement last week or before last, one of the most respected representatives of your coalition who said there was no state without an act of coercion, or without sanctions. The prominent member of the government said that on the parliamentary issue of a colleague, what will happen to persons who, I will not repeat those parolees, have been highlighted at matches in Novi Pazar and Belgrade. He said the state would work. Here, it works, the people who did it in the previous period will be released. This law on the amnesty of SNS, SPS, G17, or regions, SDPS, etc., and all other groups, and should mention them, will allow freedom and persons who have committed crimes against justice. Do not report preparing a criminal offence, not reporting a perpetrator's crime, false reporting, etc. Crimes against public order and peace, violent behavior, a deal to commit a crime, a merger to commit a crime. Criminal acts against legal traffic. Criminal acts against official duty other than two criminal acts of bribery and bribery, they are excluded from amnesty. Crimes against humanity and goods protected by international law are excluded from amnesty and, of course, I personally support it. However, no crimes against the Serbian Army have been excluded, and those persons will be amnested in some future period that will probably not be longer than ten to 15 days. So my amendment that I've submitted is due to the fact that by passing these laws that are very stingy in words, it produces very difficult consequences, which you have through the explanation of certain people who have not read the law or wanted to deceive the public, produced severe consequences. The fact that you haven't prepared those persons who need to be free, you haven't allowed them to resocialize, allows them to find at large persons who don't have the basic means of life, who don't have the opportunity to start a new life without committing crimes. You did not allow them to be paroled, which would give these persons the opportunity and oblige them not to commit crimes in the next period. I asked Minister Selakovic, who sat at the place of Minister Obradovic, if he would take responsibility if around 150 people convicted of the crimes of serious murders and murders were released, he did not give any answers. I ask Mr Obradovic if the Government will take responsibility for what the crimes will do in the coming days, as we have in Belgrade these days and in other cities, the debilitated drivers who step all ahead of them, the people who, knowing that the state will one day forgive them, commit crimes, and what will you do on that plan? Is this part of the fight against crime? Is this one of the measures against crime? I can't bring her in any way into a relationship other than to tie this to the interests of certain people to whom this situation suits? I don't know who these people are, and to whom does an amnesty like this suit without a measure of resociation? I repeat my position once again, I am not against amnesty, but I am against unconditional amnesty, against amnesty that does not accept the general principles of law and legal certainty in one country. We are not a state where crime is zero, or such a state does not exist. The previous government has done everything, Mr. Obradovic, to deal with organized crime, and this government has to continue this fight and as it has declared, it is being dealt with with with all forms of crime, this law does not confirm that you intend to do so. Please, what is the government's wish? To fight crime or to deal with crime in some way and in this way, by passing the law to the criminal mile that, in the light of criminal policy, he's acting on social conditions, and you've created a social condition with general amnesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4334	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4335	I would like to say just a few words, first of all, to thank Ambassador Veselinovic for what he said. I don't agree with what he said, but I want you to know that I'm here today because my colleague Nikola Selakovic is on a state visit to an area she covers. I think there's a replacement thesis here on your part, because if you look at exactly what the content of this law contains, you'll see that it very precisely determines what crimes are and what the object of amnesty, which are not. To be clearly seen, and in relation to the content of the concept of amnesty, to be understood why the legislator proposed this. I have some circumstances, but quite accidentally, I have a book here, something that I spoke in the Assembly 11 years ago, February 12, 2001, when the congregation majority then adopted the Amnesty Act. What you now have on the agenda is far more fair, fairer, more restrictive than the perpetrators of criminal acts and, if I may say, politically, since the amnesty has political content, far less than the 2001 Amnesty Act. I'm not saying this to talk about the 2001 Amnesty Act now, but just to remind myself that this is not the first law to be adopted in practice and in the work of the National Assembly, and that there have been before and that the arguments that you make cannot be accepted, because the law proposed by the Government is very precise. If you go into detail, you can always find one or more details that can confirm your thesis, but if you look at the whole, you will see that it has its own meaning and content, and the reason why the government has proposed this law for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4336	The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4337	I was expecting this answer and I prepared myself for it because it was the answer that the proposing representatives last time, the truth, not the promoter himself, the minister, because he didn't say a word to my very specific question, but to the party to which he belonged. So, yes, it is true, in 2001 the Law on Amnesty was passed and it was largely perhaps even wider than this law. I don't think that law was good from 2001 from this point of view right now. After the law was passed, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia was killed. Some people who were amnesty in 2001 participated in this murder, so I don't think you came from a good guess, that all what the governments did in the previous period could be a good basis for you to do the same. First of all, there were other circumstances, and that was the period after the wars, the period during which crime was committed due to social circumstances where people were returning from the wartime, they were brought into various ways, to say the least, to commit crimes, but I still don't justify that law. From the present point of view, in my opinion, I am not representing the DS position, but myself as an MP of the DS, and I think that law should not have been passed at that time. In that sense, your justification does not stand. On the other hand, there are other circumstances now, we are still in one period, when we need to reduce the crime rate in Serbia and when we are all trying together in the government and the opposition in this, we agree that crime should be dealt with. In that sense, it's not a real excuse and that's why I can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4338	The word has Minister Obradovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4339	Mr. Vesenović, I don't know if you noticed, I didn't speak more specifically about the Law on Amnesty of 2001, I just mentioned that there was a law and that it was much more political than today's law. I don't know if you notice one significant difference, but I was against that law at the time, and you admit 11 years later that you don't agree with that law. This is something I was saying back then, so it turns out I'm right, and all the other elements can be interpreted as you want. I would not like to turn this debate into a personal discussion, but after today's session of the National Assembly, I will be happy to present to you what I was saying then about the state's law on the fight against organised crime, that part of what the opposition said to the then government might not have been those tragic events that followed in 2003. It is unthinkable to publish the White Book, to publish a list of criminals six months in advance, and then what happened, unfortunately, tragically, that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia should be killed because it is a tragedy for every country. That's another topic. I'm telling you this sooner or later, some things are shown to be true or not, I just mentioned this law, not to claim that I was right at the time, but to tell you that even then the government had certain reasons more or less political, because amnesty has something political in it, but I said that this law is far more complete and that it predicted crimes and the extent of amnesty, as well as those crimes that are not subject to amnesty. You also have an explanation that I would not read, since the other MPs are not familiar with, and the public in particular, so you have an answer why the Government is not in a position to accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4340	The word has Janko Veselinović, we end up with a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4341	Well, I didn't intend to reply anymore to replicate. Now it's quite clear to me, it was clear to me before that you were against the Amnesty Act at the time, but I just don't understand why you're in favour of the Amnesty Act today, in one completely different and possibly more dangerous circumstances than crime. So, I don't want to go any deeper into this question, but you mentioned an explanation, and I'm just going to look back at it, and it's just an unacceptable explanation to me. So it's said when it comes to abolishing the sentence for persons who have been sentenced to prison for up to three months, that this instead of sanctioning is being prevented. So how can you prevent someone who's already committed a crime? So that's quite an inconceivable explanation. You can prevent someone who's just about to commit crimes. This is not to prevent him, but to encourage him to commit a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4342	Thank you. According to the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4343	I wanted to report as a member of the Committee on Justice under an amendment that was otherwise accepted by the Government and which became an integral part of the Amnesty Law proposal. However, given the amendments that are now part of the agenda, and given that amendments are being elaborated, I am obliged to say something for the sake of the truth and for the proper introduction of citizens on the essence of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, or the Law on Amnesty, I apologize. In particular, the Justice Committee has already resolved all these dilemmas and all these issues that have now appeared at this session. Namely, the Law on Amnesty is true, selectively defined which are crimes and which criminals can never be absolutely covered by amnesty. The second group of crimes are crimes with an increased degree of social danger, and thus with highly threatened criminal sanctions, that means penalties, which involve effective prison sentences for a long period of time and over ten years. It is these crimes that contain an extremely high degree of social danger that the Amnesty Act is treated so that their perpetrators, if they are convicted of acts of committing these crimes, can be amnesty, or freed from the execution of 10% criminal sanctions. Everyone else is in the crime scene category where this release from criminal sanctions is meant for 25% of criminal sanctions. What's the big deal here anyway? From the point of view of the Justice Committee, literally nothing. Because those who are perpetrators, so-called. for citizens of the most serious crimes, in this law they are not privileged at all, but they are also not discriminated against because they are all equal before the law. There are perpetrators of crimes that cannot be released, but those covered by the law are understood, so that the Justice Committee has accepted a selective approach. We have two groups of laws that systematically solved this matter. Previously, Criminal Law, where we have systematized the crime of robbery and robbery, with a qualitative element, which means with a deadly consequence. What's in the translation? In translation, a serious crime. In the new law there is a crime of murder that has four qualifications, benefits, low initiatives, etc., and these perpetrators so-called. The most serious crime under this law has been released, if convicted by law, only 10% of the criminal sanctions imposed. Therefore, citizens should not be fooled that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes are thus privileged. No, they're not. There is always, even if it is not covered by amnesty if it endures punishment, does not automatically mean that it has been carried out resociation, because today we have many returnees, as we rightly call it a relapser, even special returnees, and that means the perpetrators of criminal acts repeating crimes from the same group or related group of crimes where the resociation is not undermined under amnesty. Let us not lead the citizens astray from that side. Amnesty is one legal institute, and resociation is something else entirely. Resociation is exclusively regulated by the provisions of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The Amnesty Act implies a completely different approach and, in this sense, citizens should be properly informed, which means that, as I have already said in this amendment, amending and supplementing the law has been requested, it has already been contained in the amendment of the Justice Committee, which is an integral part of the Amnesty Law, that perpetrators who have been convicted for up to six months, so over three months 50% of the sentence will be released. There's absolutely nothing controversial about it. Those convicted of up to three months and three months will be released, but this does not mean that they are also privileged because citizens must and how well they know that relapsers or special returnees, in the event of the execution of a new criminal offence, will be significantly more severely punished because repeating a criminal offence in criminal policy implies a more automatic punishment. Therefore, it is not necessary to politicise the law, to interpret the law exactly as the Amnesty Act does not create a criminal policy. Criminal policy creates a court through court practice and we are imposing imperatives on courts that perpetrators of criminal acts adequately punish them. Adequate punishment involves punishment that corresponds to both the degree of social danger and the severity of criminal acts. The Amnesty Act does not speak, and the Amnesty Act cannot determine or create a criminal policy. If the amendment of the Justice Committee is carefully read, it is perfectly clear that the perpetrators of the crimes covered by the Amnesty Act are divided into several groups, that there is no danger that the perpetrators of the crime are even stimulated to commit crimes, but rather on the contrary, what Mr. Minister said – the Law on Amnesty has two decrees, one determination is more political content and it implies enabling the normal application of the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, and the normal application of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions implies the provision of conditions for the maintenance of penalties, especially in prison circumstances, which are and how they are difficult and therefore necessary for this Law on Amnesty. I will remind you, that even in the principle debate when the minister of justice here was present, the opposition reacted and pointed to the same, alleged, shortcomings that it points to today through the amendment that I am reporting for the word, and that is why the Justice Committee has looked at, analysed the original proposal and accepted what the opposition has suggested, that none of the perpetrators of the crime are unduly privileged. And he is not privileged, nor privileged; the perpetrator of a crime is punished, and he remains punished. Again for the sake of the truth for the citizens, the perpetrators of the crimes are being prosecuted in criminal records. Those covered by the Amnesty Act do not mean that they are deleted from the criminal record can be deleted from the criminal record. They remain registered as perpetrators of criminal acts and every new crime implies for them a far-reaching criminal-law situation and far tends to play a criminal-law role. Therefore, I will repeat, with the amendment of the Justice Committee, these dilemmas have been resolved. I don't think there are any criticisms relating to Article 1. The Amnesty Act, which, in its quality, is clearly improved by the amendment of the Justice Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4344	Thank you very much. According to the amendment, MP Mirko Chikiriz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is known to the public that the DHSS has acted in a similar way, whether we are part of the ruling majority or part of the opposition group. For what? We never look at any problem black and white. That's what I wanted to point out and that there's a minister of justice here, but there's a secretary of state, that the tendency to make everything that's been done by the previous and previous justice departments very bad, to say that chaos is in our justice system, etc. It's not good, because tomorrow with the same matrix, you, when you're not in that position, will come under the influence of similar unargued criticism. Of course Mr. Janko Veselinovic's amendment should be accepted. The argument he made was an argument I wanted to make maybe even 99%. We here need to think and compare and analyze three serious and crucial things. First, the promoter should have, on the grounds that he delivered us in numbers a list of groups of criminal acts of persons covered by this Amnesty Act. I tried to come by, and I got some very interesting information. In the absence of these statistical indicators, and someone can play with statistics one way or another and then we come to a large variety of arbitrary interpretations, etc., but the figures are inexorable. Based on the structure of the crimes in 2011, 1688 people were sentenced for heavy theft of property. In prisons there are 268 people for attempted murder or murder, 109 for rape, 392 for domestic violence, 313 for physical injuries, 244 for weapons possession and security threats, 41 from organised crime and 10 war criminals. We immediately see that the so-called minor crimes dominate. If there are about 11,500 people in prisons and 1,100 will be free immediately after the adoption of this law, then the perpetrators of minor crimes should be considered first and foremost. On the other hand, the savings the state would receive in this way could be invested in what is missing from our system, which is the real resociation of the perpetrators' crimes. Each punishment has two basic goals: to intimidate and to prepare the perpetrator for life after leaving the service of punishment. If the education structure is analysed, it will be seen that only about 2,500 criminals with secondary, higher school and college. So, we're left with the lowest education, those who go free will certainly not have a job or a well-paid job waiting for them, and they will, in these conditions and conditions in Serbian prisons and without what the country should have done, to throw the main accent into rehab, to prepare for life outside of prison. Whether or not, the most often will be retrained and perfected in prison in committing crimes these people are likely to be forced to commit crimes again and then we will have headlines in the paper that people who were covered by amnesty, for example, were murderers, perpetrators of crimes within a short period of time, according to their, temporary release from prison. If we look at how prisons were carried out through human civilization, we'll see that prison sentences exist in the Roman era, in Babylon, etc., but it was a classic prison. Only in England, in the middle of the 16th century, do they start to make prisons look like what they look like today - a prison-repair type. Penology comes to life in the early 19th century, and we in the 21st century don't put an accent on penology and that's what's bad for this society. Therefore, the SPO and the DHSS believe that these problems should be resolved by accepting this amendment. Unfortunately, in the short run, at the end of the legal period, we submitted some amendments that were very useful. We think that the government should think about what all future governments should think about, and that is how convicts, perpetrators of serious crimes, prepare for life after getting out of prison, how to minimise the danger of doing crimes again. Regardless of the various reports on the situation in Serbian prisons, despite the fact that the conditions of maintenance of prison sentences are improving realistically from year to year, they are still not good because of the overcrowding of prisons and because of the absence of work of people who possess multidisciplinary knowledge and psychologists and sociologists and educators, etc. Because, for example, prison in Sremska Mitrovica, a former school in prison has been turned into a dormitory and many, many prisoners do, since they do not have good and decent conditions of maintenance of the prison sentence, not that they do not have the necessary resociation, but in these conditions they seem to become even more willing to commit crimes upon their release. On the third hand, through the prism of the victims and the families of the victims, the perpetrators of crimes which, after the adoption of amnesty, will be found at large, and I am talking about the most serious crimes involving this amnesty, the families of the victims are bitter. You can already see their reactions in public. We don't want to, but if someone like that happens again immediately after leaving prison to commit a similar or criminal act from a group of these crimes, then, above all, they will be wronged by the Ministry of Justice, which this law has proposed, by the ruling majority who supported it and who voted it. There's something else I want to say that's very correct. For the situation in Serbian prisons, because there is no necessary resociation, it is not the government and it is not the government's fault, but if they want to implement a new policy, and if a new policy is meant to be better, then there is no need to implement a new policy that is worse. Secondly, it is mentioned that the waters have changed social, political and economic opportunities. Nothing important has changed, no economic opportunities, no social opportunities, and not even political opportunities, because we have, say, a SPS that is a symbol of continuity in power since the 1990s and until 2012, only with a smaller or greater participation in power. This is not an accent on responsibility just for the SPS, I don't want my discussion to be understood, but this is proof that there are no significant new social and political and economic circumstances. I believe we'll all agree on that. To conclude, it was quite logical for us to use amnesty, because easier crimes were committed for the first time and because of overcrowding in prisons, and for saving the state, and for the government to fight corruption and crime, so it is assumed that there will be room in prisons for those who will be struck by the fight against corruption and crime, which we fully agree on. We think that amnesty should only include the persons, the perpetrators of easier crimes, and that the savings achieved in this way are directed towards resociation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4346	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4347	Yes, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4348	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of my amendment is to forgive half the sentence, which is laid down for the sentence of three to six months, and to say that it is valid from three months to one year. The reason I did this is to allow the perpetrators of the most minor crimes to be amnested in the greater degree, unlike those who are convicted of serious crimes. This should be borne in mind that when a verdict is reached in a completely different way, persons for easier crimes than persons who are charged with serious crimes and often, as I say, with a reformed deformed judiciary, use easier cases to impale the number of cases they have received. Appellate courts are very easy to confirm so-called penalties. So there's usually no bigger one, judges one judge, judges in a shortened procedure, and there are possible mistakes. It's very simple crimes. I'm sorry there's no punishment for community service, which most of these penalties could be replaced. In previous discussions, which I must state, that I am almost astounded by the objections of the former regime, the height and manner in which the relevant perpetrators are amnested by this law, that is, the punishments of the prison. I must remind you that in 2001, in February of the Law on Amnesty, they are by amendment of the Government, who was a participant in parliamentary life remembers that, were released for amnesty only by pedophiles. It's about Republic law. The exemption of those perpetrators follows the government's amendment following proposed amendments by MPs. It was some kind of general amnesty and was amnested by a total of 6,000 people, 4.200. It was about amnesty of 7,000 perpetrators. I'm also amazed that someone admits that they amnested the crime of killing the prime minister in 2003. So, the faces of his party were amnested. That information was unknown to me. I'm also amazed by some other data, complaints, since most of them mention the 2001 law here. No one will mention two federal laws, and under these laws have been amnested guilty, accused and convicted of acts of state terrorism, for association for hostile action, for armed rebellion. I especially must stress that the amnesty is so-called. "Drenic Group." So it's most likely the former regime, as the people say, that the yellows have also amnested those who committed a crime in the yellow house. As for my amendment, since it's the urgency to create places in prison, I want an amnesty to let a certain group go free. I think, given the fight against corruption and crime, there will be a growing need for space in criminal institutions. Thus, a sudden inflow of future prisoners is expected. As a human man, I'd like to appeal that in these mildest parts of them, some socially beneficial work is being prescribed, so that we peasants are also going west to pick corn, to bathe corn, to do Polish work, and I don't see any harm in it, because we're not condemned to do it every day. It would be good if for the mildest political offenses, which is expected to be convicted on the rise, so that these mildest crimes are not sent to prison, so that the one from Major, from New Montenegro, you can automatically send to me in the field. We should deal with this high political crime, whichever group, for the sake of obedience to the international community, because of its imperial policy and its imperial attitude, has been granted the right under the umbrella of the international community and European alleged politics, to fundamentally rob its people and state. Someone here said they'd see how we'd fight crime and corruption. I say - you will see how we will fight crime and corruption. The point of my amendment is that we don't take our heads off to little thieves anymore, and in front of the big one, we don't take our hat off, we turn it around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4350	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4351	Thank you. Amendment to Article 2. The draft law on amnesty is the consequence of amendments to Article 1 of this Act, since in essence Article 2 lists crimes that are excluded from general amnesty. Since I proposed in Article 1 a way, or level to which amnesty would be expressed, which crimes would be covered, Article 2 became groundless, although it is very current and could be discussed. Since a very small number of crimes are excluded from the general amnesty here, these are prison sentences from 30 to 40 years and several other criminal acts from a group of crimes, a very rare group of crimes. I did not receive any concrete answer from any colleagues who appeared in the position relating to Article 1 because I did not understand what the resolution committee had proposed and that it would affect the mitigation of the consequences of this law. I understood that for the acts of serious murder, the rate of amnesty will be reduced from 25% to 10%. But that's not enough for me, and there's only one crime I've been counting on. Anyone who wanted to hear could hear what crimes were covered by amnesty, which is practically 99% of the crimes, including the most serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4352	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4353	I thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Honorable Minister Obradovic, representatives of the Justice Ministry, it is no doubt that we have a very serious law to be passed in our legal practice after 11 years. And in principle, in the discussion, I said that I did not agree with that law that was then passed, to a large extent, so I do not agree with this bill that stands before us, because of the breadth or general amnesty, as we could hear in the debates of the MPs treated by this bill. Dear Minister Obradovic, you said that the bill accurately foresees criminal acts that are covered by the bill, or those that are not. That is precisely the problem, because Article 2 does not cover all the crimes which, given the degree of social danger, should be excluded from the case of amnesty. I welcome the fight against organised crime and corruption, which has been declared to be the goals of this government. It is a continuation of those objectives that the previous government had. That is why I will agree with every investigation and every criminal procedure that can contribute to the healing of our society in terms of reducing or eradicating organised crime and corruption. However, this struggle plays a preventive and repressive role. Of course, the repressive role lies in the jurisdiction of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. The preventive role lies on all of us, especially on the moves proposed by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be voted by the National Assembly. That fight has to be consistent, it has to be coherent, it has to be comprehensive, and every move has to go in that direction and that these moves are consistent. I cannot agree that the moves towards fighting organised crime and corruption are fully in line with this government, because here today we are discussing a bill which, for example, is a law that is being proposed. did not exclude criminal acts of hooliganism or crimes of violence in sports competitions, e.g. Yesterday we had a statement from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, who said on the panel in Italy, whose name is "violent crime and rule of law", where he said that police and judiciary would adequately respond to hooliganism at games and that a more severe criminal policy was envisaged. He also said on that occasion that violence at sports events, regardless of whether it takes place on sports grounds or around, or the sporting event is a direct cause for violence, and the causes are far more complex than the fact that any team has won or lost the game, has recently become very widespread, more as a rule, and less as an exception. Here, he advocates being a stricter criminal policy, that there is an adequate reaction between society and state authorities, and today we have a bill that does not exclude these crimes. Also, I cannot fully agree with the amendment of the Committee on Justice and State Administration and local self-government, which predicted that the crimes of serious murder and the crimes of robbery and the theft of amnesty would not be imposed at 25% but 10% of the fines imposed. I fully agree with the discussions of the MPs who say that the law has no name, that it has a general character, that it cannot refer to an individual, that it is one of the basic principles when writing the law, but also, you will agree with me, the law has its own authority, that it applies to individuals in an extreme instance, concerns their rights, obligations, and, in this case, freedom. So, this amendment by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government will not be excluded from the amnesty of individuals whose moves have largely endangered this society or social values. Amnesty will continue to cover persons from the crime scene, such as Andrija Draskovic and Sreten Jocic, because they have been convicted of murder, not murder, as is the amendment of the Justice Committee. All those criticisms that concerned that we deceive the public that amnesty does not apply to these persons, standing before you and the citizens of Serbia, I continue to argue that the amnesty will cover persons such as Andrija Draskovic or Sreten Jocic. Also, the amnesty will cover other persons who have been instructed in the discussion in principle, such as Uroš Misic, and yet I have read to you a statement by the Prime Minister who is currently talking about such cases, will also refer to those who were also distracted by the public, such as Vuk Karadzic, Stefan Karic. Here, today we had information about the Court of Appeal's decision that he would serve an effective prison sentence. I hope that's the end of it. In principle, we did not hear the reasons for the urgent adoption of the law. Here, we have a case that the Justice Committee has filed five amendments to a law that has nine members, so we haven't heard what the adverse consequences could be if this law isn't passed, which says in the light of the bill for its adoption. Also, it is said here that resociation is not an amnesty, which I fully agree with. But I also have to read to you the government's explanation when rejecting Dr. Janko Veselinovic's amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which is said among other things - the said solution to the bill was proposed for the reason that a preventive fact is thus achieved in relation to persons who are legally sentenced to prison sentences for up to three months. Here, from the government's explanation, we can understand that amnesty actually has its own preventive character, which I can't agree with. I think a lot has already been said about this bill. I have nothing more to add or take away. I can only say in the end that DS cannot vote for this law because it cannot vote for the amnesty to be Sreten Jocic, Andrija Draskovic and other persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4354	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4355	Given that the Committee on Justice has given an amendment that is under a certain amount of criticism, I am now reporting that this amendment would be brought to life as only possible, which is to be recognised by the citizens in the right light. Then let's start with facts that no one can question, no position, no opposition. First of all, the state has no money to make new prisons, no money to make prisons that meet standards prescribed as standards, especially in EU member states. In order to do such a thing, reminders need to provide every convict with at least eight to 12 square meters of room for prison institutions, in order to adequately comply with the rules of resociation, with penalties. I ask the question – what prison in Serbia meets such standards? None, not even the prisons that have been renovated still meet all those standards. This law from the point of view of politics allows the amnesty to close the release from maintenance for some thousands and some to two thousand convicts. I must remind both the MPs and the citizens, that there are just as many legally convicted men waiting to be punished. Let's use logic, what does that mean that this law has not been passed, that these 11 and some thousands of convicts who are serving a prison sentence, or they're maintaining a sentence, I apologize, the lapus, are being approached by another 2,000 to 3,000, who are waiting to go and start to pursue a prison sentence based on judicial decisions? Is that possible? It's not. Who's suffering? He suffers from the state and suffers from the citizens. It's a fact that can't be doubted. On the other hand, what is very important to point out that, regardless of all the criticisms that are directed at both the amendment of the Justice Committee and the law itself, since amendment p remains an integral part of the law, we can talk about that, based on those criticisms that have been made, all perpetrators of criminal acts would be excluded from amnesty. The opposition now points to these criticisms that, in fact, all crimes should enter the Amnesty Act, which is absurd and impossible. As a result, it was necessary to access the selection of criminal offences, according to the degree of social danger and to the threat of punishment, or criminal sanctions. On this basis, it is good that the Government in the amendment recognises that the law is improving in its own sense, that is, in its quality. For the sake of the truth and informing the citizens, I will read why the Justice Committee has taken the view that the 10% exemption from penalties is justified. The persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence – a serious murder, a serious murder prescribed by Article 114. The criminal code, under the former Criminal Code, is the criminal act of the murder of Article 47, as a criminal offence – serious cases of robbery and robbery, which have been committed in a monstrous way, which have caused the men to be reviled, given the way in which the crime is committed, are now treated with this amendment rigorously or restrictively, so that those perpetrators have the right to only 10% exemption from the execution of criminal sanctions. It is not good to mention the names of Andrija Draskovic, or Sreten Jocic, or anyone else, because the law does not adapt to the name and last name, it does not adapt to the personalities, but adapts to one situation, one criminal and legal situation, which it must and must react to. After all, why would Sreten Jocic and Andrija Draskovic be in an inferior position compared to the law? Why would they be discriminated against? They have their constitutional right to apply the principle of non-discrimination, i.e. equality before the law. In the end, what is important to point out and really no longer needs to be exposed, could in no case be done by selecting criminal acts, that, primarily by the will of public opinion, individuals, groups or anyone else, we approach an analysis of the crimes, which the crimes should be covered by amnesty and which they do not. There is no doubt that the most severe crimes must be reduced to a very restrictive approach, which is also done by this law. Therefore, the amendment of the Committee on Justice and the law itself justify their own purpose and manner of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4356	On what basis are you answering? (Slavica Saveljić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Savelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4357	Mr. Chairman, I really think the last two discussions were very good, but we've had a debate on the law. Now here we are talking about an amendment to Article 2 submitted by Mr. Janko Veselinović and please return to the topic. So, in principle, we ended the debate, and Mrs Malovic and the SPS representative talked about the law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4358	I don't think he's hurt his rules of procedure. There were few deviations, but they mostly stuck to the amendment. Mr. Janko Veselinović, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4359	Chairman, I think you're quite right because the members of the 1st and 2nd are key members of this law and are practically making up its core. The debate in principle and in particular is almost impossible to distinguish, and all the other members are accompanying members of the law. I just wanted to look back on Mr Jovanovic's discussion, where he as one of the justifications for passing the Amnesty Law stated that he had no money to make new closures, that the government had no money to make new closures. I'll repeat what I said in the principle debate. Terms in Serbian prisons are no worse or better than the conditions in psychiatric hospitals – Kovin, Vrsac, etc., where double the number of people was placed than in Serbian prisons. The conditions in Serbian prisons are not worse by hygiene and other standards, but rather by conditions in some Serbian schools that do not have toilets, which do not have a place where students will wash their hands and not close those schools. So that's no excuse. It's not the social conditions that led to the adoption of this law. Last time I asked – is the new social condition the fact that one presidential candidate, who is now president of the state, received 78% of the votes in prisons and the other candidate received 16.74%? It is the only social condition created after the election, that is, during the elections until today. Once again, the DS isn't against amnesty... (President: Time.) I'll take some time from the MP's group. Just to finish my sentence, so I don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. So DS isn't against amnesty at all. However, it is against this general amnesty, against amnesty that does not have a follow-up resociation measure, which does not have a measure of measuring the severity of the crime and the danger of the crime, in terms of prevention of new crimes and in terms of sanctions for people who have committed crimes. Perhaps this amendment, which the committee responsible has submitted, is one drop in the sea of attempts to correct the bad version of this law, however, it is absolutely insufficient. I've listed maybe 30% of the crimes that are covered by the crime, so I don't take your time and my MP's group. So, this amnesty covers almost 99% of the crimes, and we now exempt one or two groups of crimes in a way that, instead of 1/4, we give these people 10% of the punishment, which is how we bring amnesty into this law to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4360	Mr. Shane, did you get that? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go. By amendment, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4361	Yeah. Of course I'm joining my colleague Veselinovic's amendment. This amendment represents one, unfortunately, lonely attempt by the opposition to influence the government and try to change what they are, I think, by recklessness and political needs of the ruling coalition have done to this bill. We believe the law has been set wrong multiple times. We believe that, knowing and not wanting to believe that the ruling majority, which today is especially on the other side very little present in the O.R., did not want to exculpate in any way the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, as our colleagues assure us. We don't understand why? And to that question, unfortunately, we won't get an answer again. No one from the government finds it appropriate to answer us – what made it difficult to put a crime of murder, a crime in sports events, a crime of abuse of official position? Why was the criminal act of unauthorized listening? Why wasn't a crime committed in violation of the constitutional order? Knowing that Deputy Prime Minister Vukic is today making a statement that he is appalled, I quote, statements by some of the top state authorities in the government and the Ministry of the Interior. Is the National Assembly aware of what kind of security we are in, if you will, and the constitutional situation at the moment? Why isn't this crime exceptional? Is that an incentive for some people to listen unauthorizedly to government officials? I'm deliberately saying this to illustrate the indifference of the Justice Department and that they didn't want to put some people who definitely committed the most serious crimes, the most dangerous for the state and social order. One more thing. Of course I join the arguments of my predecessors from the Democratic Party. We from the Democratic Party have no interest. In this situation, it is solely a state and social interest to help the government in what it wants to do. We think this is the wrong way. We believe that what the Democratic Party has made mistakes has politically paid the price by handing over power to the worse of us, if you will. What's the point... (President: Please do not throw away and do not violate the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... and to what some, unfortunately, and for no reason, nervous MPs have no answer is why there is no exception to the murder, why this bill does not treat cumulative crimes, why don't you tell the Serbian lawmakers and citizens that because the reduction is applied in the criminal act. Some will leave prison much sooner than it says in this bill. Why is that how some lawyers look forward to this country? Why don't you say that someone won't be reduced as much as you say they will be reduced, but the people who are in the criminal situation will have a greater reduction than it says here. If that's not true, then let it be put in the text of the law. Accept amendments to the opposition. They're well-intentioned. There is nothing, in this situation, that is above the interest of Serbian citizens. If we scare the citizens of Serbia, put it in the text, disable that fear. Be above our political divisions. Be above what separates us. Show on this part that we're thinking the same thing to our citizens. In the hope that our appeal will not end again in the well, I ask you to respect these arguments, the necessary changes that will raise doubts from the ruling coalition, from the government, at will and if you want a protest – why the minister of justice is not here, why is it not the minister of justice again who is talking to us, with the respect of Minister Obradovic. We believe that what the Ministry of Justice has so far, no doubt, so far is that the network of courts is bad in Serbia, and that was one of the main messages of the Serbian Progressive Party in the campaign, as I recall. If it took you four months to determine that the network of courts is no good, gentlemen, then I really don't know what you're doing, except to determine the condition that you've already established in the campaign. You have great lawyers. It didn't take you four months, but it took you four months to make up for things you're not exempt from. It's inexplicable what you're doing with this proposal. You can't explain it to anyone. We won't abuse it, but I remind you that we are responsible to the public, in front of the public. Do not let some things go wrong in relation to what was the wish of the legislator. For this reason, I urge that the amendments be respected, first of all, by my colleagues, Veselinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4362	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4363	It's more public work, and less Parliament works. counterpart Selakovic is in Albania for a meeting of regional justice ministers. The public works, I understand Mr. Stefanovic's motives, but I don't fully understand the meaning of the words he put out. Now I have seen what counterpart Janko Veselinovic has submitted as amendments. If there's nothing else, except for what I have in my hand, of the four amendments three have been erased. What the government should accept if three amendments of four are deleted. That's the question, since it was said that if there is a goodwill and such, here's a colleague of Veselinovic's there, so he'll probably answer the question. I've seen that the amendment to Article 1, Part Two, of Article 1. The proposal for this law has been revised, and the other amendments have been deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4364	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the wish of the Democratic Party and their MPs to gain certain political arguments in the political struggle. As far as I know, the Democratic Party did not sell power to the worse ones, but lost power in the elections. It's one big fact what to do in these four months, whether we know it or not. There's a lot to be done. When it comes to judicial laws, and this is law in the field of justice, I can only say that except that the network of courts isn't good, it's not good, it's not a network of prosecutors. So one whole system of judicial authorities has been destroyed. You have to agree that it takes time to regulate it, especially if we consider that the Constitutional Court has annulled decisions when it comes to unselected judges. I ask the question to the congregation majority – what does it look like that one state authority is making a decision and not giving an explanation? What does it look like when a state authority makes a decision and writes 800 of the same arguments for each individual act? What does it look like when all this collapse and when the Constitutional Court says it is not in accordance with the Constitution? In order for the state to return to office, it is not only necessary to reform the judiciary. And in order that, as we have depicted worse than you, it is not only in the area of justice. Everything is ruined in every area. We have a situation that's ruined the financial sector. We have problems with banks, why the National Bank didn't do its job, so now you lose confidence in those other banks that may be working according to the law and in the spirit of a good businessman. We have problems with public finances, where public debt has grown close to 60%. We have a deficit problem. We have a problem with the inequity of the electricity industry. Wherever we touch, wherever we scratch our fingernails, we find that at the very least, so that someone doesn't say tomorrow that I'm threatening someone, sees one irresponsibility for those organs that the Democratic Party's representatives have led over the past period. Nothing more. This law on amnesty and what should be excluded, a colleague here said that in one act alone, in one breath, people who were convicted of the most serious crimes while the government was, I think, Zoran Djindjic. Take a little care of that. This situation around this amnesty law does not include persons who have already been amnested, persons who have been convicted. This law is no worse, and make sure that it is better than any of the previous laws that this assembly has passed, for which MPs of the Democratic Party voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4366	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Replication, and we end the debate under this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4367	Chairman, I will use the right to reply, but I will also use the time of the parliamentary group, because I do not want it to remain a vague question that we have talked about. Mr. Obradovic, you're a man of integrity I really appreciate, but in some ways you're disrupting my integrity as an MP with the fact that you somehow made it clear that you didn't understand me when I explained my... (Chairman: Please, let's just make a deal. You have the right to a replica, but you are not an authorised representative, and you have previously had time as an amendment promoter, so I ask you to complete your discussion in time for replication. I'm not counting on you this time. Here you go. All right, I'll try to fit in for another minute. So my proposal is contained in Article 1, in the proposal to amend Article 1, Minister Obradovic. The essence of my proposal is contained in Article 1, where I suggested that instead of general amnesty, people convicted of crimes are amnesty for up to six months, or that, instead of eradicating the sentence to persons sentenced to up to three months, they are amnested only by persons sentenced to six months and reduced to one quarter of persons sentenced to 30 years. All the other members in this regard have become immaterial, which is why I asked that Articles 2, 3 and 4. be deleted. You could have accepted Article 1 or not accepted. I agree, there is no point in accepting Article 2 if Article 1 is not accepted. In that sense, I think I've made myself clear enough that there should be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4368	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4369	You are absolutely clear in what you said and your amendment number one contains the explanation you said. I was just replicating my colleague Stefanovic, because he said more crimes should be included that should be covered by amnesty and that it was contained in the amendments you gave, which is not. If I misunderstood, I apologize, but I realized that this should be the subject of special amendments that were then to be accepted or not by the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4370	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this amendment I have proposed two parts because it was impossible to submit this amendment. So he's two-part. It's about amnesty for the crime of bribery. This law does not provide for that. I suggested that the amnesty include those people who gave bribes, unless the height of the bribes exceeded the value of 25,000 dinars. The second part of the amendment refers to convicted persons who were 70 years old. In the second part of the amendment, I suggested that persons who were not 70 years of age and who are 70 years of age in the next five years be amnested in the same way on the day of their 70th birthday. So in this second part, I suggested that given that there are 70-year-olds and over 70-year-olds in prison, there are people who are 69 years old and six months old and that there are 68-year-olds and that they will soon be 70 years old and will not be covered by amnesty in the way that the basic text of the law provides. As for the crime of bribery, this is where I suggested, given that most convicted bribers actually gave bribes out of need. So, we can't bring into the same plane, at least in my opinion, someone who is trying to solve their health services or some solution he was waiting for at the clerk on the counter, and as Matija Bećković said, there are no smaller people than in front of the counter, and they don't feel any bigger than behind the counter, so given that some of the urgents gave bribes to realize their daily need, I suggested that those who gave bribes, not those who received, at a height less than 25,000 dinars, are subject to amnesty as this basic law says. Obviously it won't be adopted. Also, if I could have suggested that the Criminal Law be amended. I also have this amendment, for those who are laughing from there, to introduce a crime of overstretching of citizens. I think these empty benches would be even more empty. Those who laugh should know that their party has done a great deal of this very crime. When giving bribes can't be at the same level as those who gave 100 or 200 euros to perform surgery in a hospital and they, for example, in my municipality who took over 50m euros and went unpunished at the expense of bribery, and who are responsible or convicted for the criminal act of giving the person who gave 100 or 200 euros and we don't allow them to be amnested to this occasion for the mistake they have committed in extortion and urgency. So, in my opinion, they should be amnesty persons especially for crimes, and in amnesty they don't have the right to political, as our people say, criminals. Certainly what they did should not be amnesty, so I also suggested that that amendment be introduced to Criminal Law. It is almost incredible that someone will remain in prison for the crime of bribery of 100 or 200 euros, and for example, the mayor of one city, who most likely abused public office for private purposes, has earned a billion dollars since 2005 and will be tolerated, and that we will keep someone in prison for 100 euros. Also, if I could, just laugh, you'd make me propose an amendment to the political party register and say that two words are deleted, to delete the Democratic Party because it is no longer democratic, but democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4372	Please don't go into the duels. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I ask Minister Zarko Obradovic, does the government accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4373	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4374	Thank you very much. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4375	As I said earlier, Amendments 2, 3 and 4 are with the same explanation as the reasons for Amendment 1, but in any case, I will be very happy to illustrate the current situation in which we are and which Mr Stefanovic explicitly mentioned. So, the two crimes we have at this point as a potential possibility in the announcement of possible prosecutions are for committing criminal acts of unauthorized listening and possibly a criminal act of attempted murder and those persons are involved in amnesty. The people who've been listening to the previous ones, say, ten years unauthorized, so now they're in jail, they're going to be released. What's the message to these people who are listening these days? Why wouldn't they be listening if the people who've been listening so far would be released? What's the message to the people who tried to kill the other person, that it's now forbidden? What may be very important, and neither Mr Stefanovic nor I have been able to explain, is the fact that this law hides another danger in itself, which is that it is not about reducing the fine by 1/4 in certain crimes, but it can be much greater. However, since I am not professional enough, I will leave it to my colleague Malovic to explain it a little bit better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4376	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4377	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Obradovic, we have heard here many times that this bill is praised in comparison to the law that was passed in 2001, however, it is from this Article 3 that we see that in some way this bill was largely prescribed by the law that was passed in 2001, with which we all agreed that it was not good. Namely, this Article 3. If adopted in this form, and apparently will, since there is no longer an opportunity for intervention now, there will be no reduction of the fine of 25%, or 15% for the crimes of serious murder and robbery in relation to a single sentence. So it won't reduce the unique punishment that has been imposed, if a particular person has been punished for several crimes, it will be reduced for each individual's actions. So it can happen that a particular person is absolutely released from the punishment for this, as I said, because amnesty is not applied from 25%, or 15% to a single prison sentence, but to individual penalties for individual crimes. As part of our parliamentary club, we have discussed this and unfortunately we have a specific case that we have in mind, which, as I have said, will be applied to this kind of amnesty, which is why I continue to claim that this law has not been done precisely from one technical point of view. That's what he failed to do to the Justice Committee. When I talked about the amendments, it was not a criticism of the amendments that the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government had submitted, but it was just a distraction that they could not correct this bill and could not contribute to the collapse of social values that would certainly come if this bill was passed. As I said, he is not on the way to fully following the government's goals in fighting crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4378	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4379	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, since I could not answer, did not give me the previous chairman's word, but to try in some way to simplify the answers to questions justifiably asked by Minister Obradovic. Our amendments are clear and they are very precise. It's one way for the government to adopt an amendment or a congregation majority to go. The second time our apparition to the government is on a path that they should go and maybe change things themselves, if they don't want to wipe out certain members, they could do adequate supplements to erase all the misunderstandings that we've brought here. It does not seem to me that most of us should respond primarily to each of our proposals, as you did. The argument can function for several months, but Serbian citizens expect very concrete, clear solutions. We know all that from personal experience. We did the same thing. That's what I told you in the first session. I don't think it's correct when we make clear proposals for something we're discussing right now and we can change it, that it's always, unfortunately, the answer from most -- and do you know what we find? Nor is it true that you've found everything exactly as you say. Nor is it true that it's worse than it was when you found it, but it's much more important than all of it, to follow these arguments. Respect what is in accordance with will, I think, the government that has been declared so far. The fight against corruption and organised crime, the protection of top state officials in a situation where they appear to be, as announced and said, unauthorizedly listening. Is it necessary for us from the opposition to explain to you from the majority why this is important for people who are now, as they say, at risk? So you should influence the government, whose representative is in Albania today, to change that thing, to insert exceptions. If you do not want to delete as proposed by fellow Vesenovic members, we use this pay phone to show you what you can change with our support. We've told you that more than once, clearly and publicly. Just don't waste time on campaign passwords, it's been a while. It's obvious that as a country, we have huge problems without getting into whether or not we're going to stick to each other's guilt about these things. The highest state officials are under attack. There's obviously a problem. You didn't exclude it from amnesty. How are you going to explain this to the President, the first Deputy Prime Minister? How will you explain it to the citizens? What is the preventive element of amnesty? As amnesty prevents anything other than sending a message – you can not steal, you can listen a little to state officials because it is not an exception to amnesty. I'm saying that these people would protect themselves. Also, so the public doesn't ask us from the opposition tomorrow, as we comment on the government's failure to exclude the Amnesty murder. Do it yourself, do it in the interest of the citizens to take down all speculations and let's have a big, mean name mentioned here. I am really doing this in order to help all of Serbia's citizens together in the most constructive way. The easiest thing to do is get up and say what some colleagues here have unfortunately said, but that's not gonna solve the problem. We'll all get out of this room with the conviction that we've done a good thing, but I repeat, you've done a good thing by inserting these exceptions, if you don't want to delete a member, which I understand. Let the Justice Department gentlemen say, please answer us in any way in our argument regarding cumulation, to a cumulative crime in terms of amnesty. Answer us, please, why this is such a problem. Why is the answer avoided really going to be released sooner than the bill provides? Let us know if we're wrong. Tomorrow, the public will ask if you lied to us here. Don't let the citizens of Serbia expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4380	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4381	Dear colleagues, with all due respect, I cannot help but notice one logical inconsistencies. This is a debate in particular, and in principle it's over. We have four amendments here, one that suggests amnesty to 50% for a felony that has been convicted by a judicial verdict of up to six months and the story of other crimes... Here, a colleague, Nikolic, was the head of the Niš District Court. Now I asked him if, since I let him not know, but it's always good to ask the one who knows, whether in his practice as the President of the District Court in Nis was in a position to hear, see, or perhaps standing somewhere in a judicial practice, that someone for attempted murder got six months. Why am I telling you this? Chiefly, there are your views and that's fine. But here are the amendments that are very specific, six months and the rest of the text of the law is deleted. So this isn't a principle debate, it's a matter of specificity. If you had any other idea, then you'd probably be some other amendment, otherwise this is a public story running, not a law running. The listening, to be honest, I wish this work had been processed, because I was tapped in 2008, in June of the month, I was a subject of listening, and until today's case was not resolved, the case I received, the case was not solved, which in itself says something, and I am informed that there is no verdict regarding unauthorized listening, so far there has been no, or statistics have not shown it. I wish it were, so maybe I'd be a different story about this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4382	Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4383	Once again, I have to explain the amendment to Article 1. So my amendment applies exactly in that first part as Mr. Obradovic explained, that I suggest that the sentences of prison be replaced for up to six months by a fine, half-minor punishment, to amnesty for 50% of those prisoners. We're looking for other crimes so they don't amnesty. Why? I explained, because no measures have been prepared to resociate, which is dangerous crimes, which violates the legal system, legal order, legal certainty of citizens and only stealing can be very dangerous, because if you take 100 euros or 200 dinars from the house to some grandfather or some grandmother in a village in Serbia or Vojvodina, it is very painful for him. So I'm not going to talk about any of the little things going on right now. We believe that all these crimes are very dangerous, that people are very upset with this general amnesty and that they in some way, that this law sows fear, we do not deepen it, but you have brought it by passing such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4384	The word has Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4385	It's about the next one, we're replacing the thesis here. We've had court rulings back a few years of certain laws, certain judges, a certain legal order as it was. If the people who ran the former regime weren't satisfied and would condemn the greater punishments of the people who mentioned it now, today, but yesterday, then the question of where is it going? Did you name corrupt judges, whether your prosecutors were problematic, so they took the money, so those people you assume you were supposed to get 40 years in prison today got seven years in prison, so they shouldn't be amnesty today. When we talk about amnesty, we talk about a relationship with people who have been punished so far. So, we can't talk today, where a person is iq ipsilon, because it was manufactured in the media that was much more dangerous than it was than others, because the court found it, we didn't establish it, or the MPs who were today, or who were before, and now these judges who tried two, three or four years ago say, you know what, that gentleman is a dangerous criminal, but you've made a mistake for setting them up for seven years. That's what you should have said, not today. We are talking today about all those who are convicted, and why it was then condemned, we are doing the next in this government and the government should do the following, I expect it from her, to propose a new criminal code that will rightly correct that, because then it was tried by the law as it was. Why hasn't he changed? It's not the regime's fault, it's not the ministers' fault, it's probably someone else's responsibility. We need to establish a new network of courts so that these people who have been running through that network of courts don't get seven today, but 30 years, and then they won't be amnested to this law. We can't turn the Serbian Parliament into a new court that will say, he did get seven years then, but you know, our media then wrote that he's a much bigger criminal than someone else, so today you can't cover him with amnesty, because he's a very big criminal. So let's tell the citizens of Serbia clearly, these people who have received these small sentences you're talking about, and I don't want to discuss it, because the court has condemned and the court has made decisions, they haven't been punished by any minister and today's government, any MP who sits in the majority today, they are condemned then in that judiciary that existed and then it is determined that the degree of social danger of their actions is as it is. Do I think maybe it was supposed to be different at the time? I think so. Do I think that's when some people got through? I think so. We have to make a difference here and I will end up with this, the responsibility of this government, most of it, is for everything that seems to be done in the judiciary, back in the three months, so in the future and in that sense, I agree with Mr Stefanovic, that we both have to process what you have been talking about in the most serious way and to tighten the penalties for doing these crimes. Why was that before? I think I gave a clear answer that it was the relationship between the judicial authorities and the law to these people and that they can't change now by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4386	Mr. Stefanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4387	Mr. Shane, I think you've largely confirmed why we're looking for these changes, and I thank you for that. I think it's correct to answer very clear questions that we've asked, to answer our appeal to the ruling majority, the government, that some things change, if you don't want to adopt amendments that are nuclear-type, because they're erasing members. So if you do not want to delete the members as we have suggested, that is, Mr. Veselinović, then you have the opportunity as most to change the things we have shown you, which you confirm. You're telling yourself, we want to process these crimes as strictly as possible. How can you process the strictest and at the same time let them go free? Explain, not only to me, but to the citizens of Serbia, what your intention is with what you are doing. I'm asking that if you won't accept our amendment, supplement the exceptions, very simply. If you don't want to add exceptions, say why, and if it's not a cumulation of crimes, say, no, because we haven't heard any of it yet, except, then it was like this, and now we're doing the same thing as then. Believe me, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4388	Replica, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4389	I have to explain one more time, obviously we didn't understand each other about it. We can't fix what you're not, and Mr. Secretary said why it hasn't been processed so far, and we can't fix it with this law. Our intention is seen in that all these people are to be processed, which is to be created, and that's not for us to decide, but for the prosecution, and for the Assembly to create conditions by amending the laws of those particulars that define that area. This is not a law defining the processing of certain crimes. This is the law my predecessors were talking about, I don't want to go into details. So we obviously mixed up two things. We have mixed up what the Criminal Law regulates, what other laws regulate, and what this law regulates. I can only accept your argument in this sense that the message we send to citizens should be very careful in it, that we must very carefully select the sentences we are sending messages to, because we are playing with very dangerous things, fires, messages against possible perpetrators of criminal acts, whether this educational function we want to do and send people to the KZP and debate here in the Assembly, we are doing all we can or are channeling it to select certain political points, but I think all MPs from the SNS Group and I, as the president of the Roma Party and the member of this group, will confirm it to you, and I hope the representatives of the majority. We must create conditions to punish them even more severely when they are done than they seem. The fact that they were fined earlier, so they didn't fall under this law, so it's not someone in the congregation's most guilty, it's the ones who convicted, and eventually maybe they got bribed for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4390	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Malovic, tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4391	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since you haven't returned the debate to the agenda, I will try to point out to you in my discussion. First of all, I cannot understand the speeches about not discussing today the amendments that we have submitted, since, fortunately, there is an act that regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly, which is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its Article 158, that a search in particular is carried out on the members to which the amendments and amendments have been submitted that I do not read any further. Therefore, we have the full right to hold a discussion on the members of the Bill on which the amendments have been submitted, not about whether or not we have submitted amendments, and the discussion of the DS MPs has been held on the members of the bill, and I will now continue to try to return to the discussion on Article 3. The draft law and the way to determine amnesty in relation to sentences imposed in prison. As I said, amnesty does not refer to a single sentence, but to certain penalties imposed. Often, a single sentence is much less than individual penalties are imposed. Here's what I've just found out about a case where four crimes have been fined, I'm not going to tell you on purpose which one, but I believe the citizens of Serbia will know who it's about. Namely, the person was sentenced for a certain crime of one and a half years, then three years, four years and six years, and a single prison sentence of six and a half years was established. So he was told for four crimes in this range that I said, and there was a single prison sentence of six and a half years. In fact, if an amnesty were applied to that person, it would not be applied to the prison sentence of six and a half years, but to each individual. So, like I said, there will be cases when this law applies, i.e. Once adopted, there will be cases of a person being completely abolized, meaning completely amnesty from upholding the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4392	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask my colleagues to read the Law properly, at least, to represent it to the citizens as it was written. When I listen to some of my colleagues, I have the impression that when this law comes into force, that everyone in prison will get out of those prisons, at least that's how you represent them to the citizens. It seems that, and now that the debate is being held, this law applies to the future as well. So, for those against whom a criminal procedure is now being conducted, or even an investigative procedure, that they will be covered by this law. It's not like that. I'd like to find out, I really didn't, maybe it happened somewhere in court practice, that someone was responsible for unauthorized listening. As far as I'm aware, I may be mistaken, but that hasn't happened so far, and here's the minister as a witness. So no one has answered today, so they can't be covered by this law. If read more carefully, it will be seen that not everything is covered by this amnesty. It is not covered, so, on the penalty of prison for 30 to 40 years, you know what kind of crimes they are, for crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, no one is released; the crime of domestic violence, no one is released; the crime is not authorized to produce and put into the traffic of intoxicating drugs, many would like but no one is released; the crimes against constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, so I don't know, we'll see how the prosecutor will be wronged if the highest public officials are listened to, can be placed under this item, means that this law does not release criminal responsibility; the crime of taking bribes, again, I would like to see that more was prosecuted for this crime, as well as the crime of giving bribes. Furthermore, it is not covered by amnesty by competent courts, i.e. their special departments in conduct in accordance with the jurisdiction of a certain law, the organisation of the jurisdiction of state authorities, the control of organised crime, corruption and other serious criminal offences, and they are not released by this law either. Now, whether this law could have been better, any law could, but you can't say now, no one can say – we've given the amendment that even this kind of crime is excluded from the Amnesty Act. So, you've made an amendment that those who have been convicted of these acts will be covered by this Amnesty Act. Okay, maybe I'm not getting into that story about the reason for the amendment. In my parliamentary career, I have submitted many amendments, often being rejected by the promoter, so later in amendments and additions to the same law, I found them as a proposal from the government, I have no objection. Likewise, if we are already dealing with something, let's at least be precise, it is no longer possible to submit the amendment, so even the proposed representative cannot submit the amendment, nor the committee responsible, the deadlines for submitting the amendment have passed. Just to say, when it comes to this unique punishment, if someone has received a six-and-a-half-year single sentence, and there are more in a collection of individuals, it says in Article 3 well that it is released from the execution of a single sentence, previously established individual punishments for a criminal offence covered by this law, so it is a unique punishment that affects the execution. So, I would ask my fellow MPs if I didn't mind discussing amendments, but at least correctly interpreting what the law says and correctly interpreting what they say in their amendments, because if someone asked for the erasure of a certain member, I mean, in particular, Article 2, then you asked them to be exempt, i.e. to be covered by amnesty and these crimes such as prison sentences from 30 to 40 years of age, manufacturing and placing on the market intoxicated drugs, anti-corruption and bribery, acts related to organised crime. These are your amendments, I can't help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4394	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4395	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4397	First, it's not true that we misread the law. Here, I'll read Article 3. The bill, which reads, together with the amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice, has been legally condemned by persons who have been sentenced to a single sentence of imprisonment, are exempt from the execution of a single sentence for the percentage of the exemption from the execution of the fine, prescribed by this law, the individual penalties imposed for the offence covered by this amnesty, which means that amnesty is applied not to a single sentence, but to an individual penalty established. Also, I'll tell you that you're not right about the crime of unauthorized production and drug trafficking. He is a member of the 4th of this crime left out of amnesty, but it is covered by the amnesty of the attitude of the 3rd of this crime, which says this - if the act of Article 1 of this article has been carried out by the group or the perpetrator of this part has been organised by a network of resellers or intermediaries, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of 5 to 15 years. Therefore, in so far as the person convicted of unauthorized production and placing on the market intoxicating drugs under heading 3 will be covered by amnesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4398	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4399	Dear fellow MPs, last time I'm gonna get back to you, I'm gonna make sure that the debate ends as soon as possible, that we don't exhaust and we don't spend a lot of energy on something that's perfectly clear. This time I report for the profession, as a lawyer, because it's my profession, so I'd like the citizens to be properly informed and that every word from here has a complete and legal basis. I do not dispute the right of any MP, not to anyone, not to any group, or any other group, to aphirmic acts that would be outside and not to be covered by the Law of Amnesty. I'm afraid that this would lead to a list of good wishes, so that would lead the whole legal situation to a level of defamation, because it would be required to exclude other crimes from the law, such as crimes such as offenses, slanders, minor physical injuries, serious physical injuries, etc. I don't think that's the point, and I don't think that's the point. Secondly, it is a mistake to interpret the release itself from supporting the perpetrators. It's only about perpetrators of criminal acts who have been convicted by law. Conviction involves sentenceing a single prison sentence. Penalty can also be imposed for several crimes, but are then sentenced to a single sentence of prison, so that only convicted persons fall under these provisions of the Amnesty Act. That's what citizens need to know. On that side, you don't have to lead the citizens astray. There's a colleague, Veroljub Arsic, right. Finally, again for accurate interpretation, there is no need to subdue this law under the legal institutes that are completely incompatible with this law. It doesn't affect amnesia or prevention or resociation. Amnesty has nothing to do with prevention or resolution, as spoken and spoken. It's the meaning of the law and in that direction the law is perfectly clear. It refers to a legal situation, a group of convicted persons, giving clear and convincing reasons. In that sense, and as such, it should be accepted. I won't answer again, because I think we're getting a little out of the context of what's about the amendments themselves and the debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4400	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4401	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. It's about explaining and trying to interpret. The fact is that single punishment in amnesty is treated for individual crimes. It's easy to prove. As an illustration that the law, which is before us, is not good, I will give you two figures. The law has 10 members, and it has seven amendments, with two amendments that are correct, which relate more to literacy. We have submitted half of the members and adopted amendments, which the Committee, which are MPs. There are no interpretations - 10 members, seven amendments. If it's not in itself a sign to you that we need to listen more carefully when we talk about this terribly important law, which treats human freedoms and rights, I cannot offer other figures except to confirm that the single sentence is reduced by reducing each individual crime. It's for nothing here to claim that we're interpreting. These people will come out amnesty. The availability of information on who they are and how reduced they are will be for all of us. Let's not all call it interpretation together. They repeat only the key problem that remained with the Amnesty Law bill as amended, which is that both in the debate and otherwise in this amnesty law they try to justify criminal acts. We heard it clearly in the debate. If someone has no awareness of how inadmissible it is for the MP to justify the work, then it is a much bigger problem than we have accepted seven amendments on 10 members of the law. The Amnesty Act, like a lawyer who defends a man in court, not an act, refers to people. This is where we listened to the argument justifying the crimes. The explanation of the Ministry, or Government, which gave us this bill for discussion, there is no point that could be accepted as reasonable, as consistent with what is the idea of the Law on Amnesty. All crimes for which amnesty will be covered, including these crimes for which a single sentence is pronounced, remain in criminal law. There is no announcement that it will be amended, deleted, removed from the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. It's equally important to me, when we're discussing how we're going to interpret, whether the single sentence is being reduced by the individual crimes that it's being said for or otherwise interpreted, it's much more important to me that we're not talking about the rights of the victim here in each of the individual cases. So, we're looking for the Amnesty Act, which covers the crimes that remain in the Criminal Code, we're putting Article 3 where, for a single sentence given, we're covering individual crimes with amnesty, and we're saying that we're doing good to the Republic of Serbia. It's not too late to talk about this law seriously. It's not too late until we get rid of any motives that have nothing to do with the good effect of this law, the day comes for the vote and it is adopted and it begins to produce a legal fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4402	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 3. with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. The word is proposed by a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4403	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4404	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4405	Madam Chairman, how long has our parliamentary group been left? I'm going to use the MP's time because I have to go back to Article 1, and this Article 4 is about Article 1. A bill of amnesty. Namely, Article 1 lists the crimes covered by this amnesty. I'm sorry that Mr. Arsic wasn't at the moment when I explained Article 1 which is all crimes covered by amnesty, so I'm going to repeat some of those crimes. First, statistics. Therefore, of the 281 crimes in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, only 20 crimes are not covered by the Amnesty Act. So from 281, I've counted them now and I'm giving the right to make a mistake in one or two crimes. So 281 only 20 are not covered. The crimes against life and body, such as the crime of murder, the murder of gravely murder, the murder of a child in childbirth, etc., Mr. Arsic, are covered. I'm not allowed to address the MP, so I'm going to turn to the chairman. Crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen are also covered, violations of equality, unlawful deprivation of freedom, kidnapping, coercion, extortion, abuse and torture, etc. They are covered by the Law on Amnesty by the proposed parties of the ruling coalition, crimes against election rights. They are covered by the amnesty of criminal acts against labour-based rights. They are covered by the amnesty of crimes against honor and reputation. They are covered by the amnesty of crimes against marriage and family, except for one crime - it's a crime of bimarriage, an extramarital community with a minor, the abduction of a minor, the change of family status, the abandonment and abuse of a minor, the violation of family obligations, the bloodshed. Then criminal acts against intellectual property, all crimes against property - theft, heavy theft, robbery, fraud, fraud, petty theft, etc., all crimes against the economy except, I mean, one crime that is excluded, all crimes against the health of people, what the colleague Malovic was talking about. Thus, allowing the use of intoxicating drugs and unconsciously providing medical assistance, non-infectious medical assistance and works concerning the very production of intoxicating drugs. Crimes against the environment are covered by the amnesty of ruling coalition parties, to repeat them once again by the SNS, SPS, G 17, by Mr Ljajic's party. So they've made a law that has amnesty of the faces, the perpetrators of these crimes. So, environmental pollution, killing and animal abuse, including forest theft. Crimes against general security of people and property, causing general danger, destruction and damage to public devices, non-revealing of dangers, etc. Crimes against the security of public traffic, crimes against the security of accounting data, crimes against state authorities, against justice, against public order and peace are covered by this amnesty law proposed by the SNS SPS, G 17 and their coalition partners. Criminal acts against justice, crimes against public order and peace, against legal traffic, against official duty, except for two crimes and crimes against the Serbian Army. So, of the 281 crimes, 20 crimes are not covered. For the sake of the public and for the people watching this session, I'm saying this. On the other hand, Mrs Comic rightly mentioned the rights of the victims. No one here today since the ruling coalition was talking about the rights of victims, the real mothers whose children were killed, the right of sisters whose brothers were killed or killed in car accidents by drunk drivers. The right to be robbed or robbed of damaged persons who live alone or have no other protection. I think it's immoral participation in a debate between lawyers and MPs, especially if they're guilty. I find it the most difficult form of abuse of official position. If you are a lawyer and if you have a person who you defend in a criminal proceedings that has been convicted or who will be convicted by law at the moment of entry into force of this law, you are in a serious conflict of interest. Since that, unfortunately, is not meant to be a conflict of interest, I say it is a moral offense by members of Parliament who are discussing, and in this capacity. The Democratic Party is against this law, because it is bad, nakaradan and incurs the basic values of Serbia's legal system. The Democratic Party is not against amnesty, it is for amnesty that would be fair, which would include certain crimes and would allow parole on freedom and resociation measures. This law has been impossible to correct, and that is why we call you and suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure. The DS proposal is to withdraw this law from the procedure. To participate together in the creation of a new law on amnesty, which would be in line with this principle. I was surprised by one thing I heard today, and it's consistent with the current events these days, and it's in line with the subject we're discussing today. Imagine when security services were listening to a minister who was involved in education.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4406	Mr Vesenovic, I was just reminded by the representative of your parliamentary group that we have gone beyond the subject, so please return to the topic and honor what she has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4407	Madam Chairman, Mrs Malovic spoke backwards about the respect of the Rules of Procedure, in the sense that we are not coming out of the topic, because the said members are absolutely the core of this law and we cannot get out of the topic when these four members are the core of the law. So you probably didn't get along well, I think I'm right, Mrs. Malovic. So, I'm just citing how other people who perform important state functions will be treated, when one education minister, who deals with one activity that has nothing to do with public security, peace, police, etc., has been tapped. He denied Mr. Arsic, perhaps the act against you was not processed, and perhaps that man was not among the convicted, but this crime existed during the previous period. There have been wiretaps, so in that sense it is not true that this activity has not been carried out. On the other hand, once again in accordance with this amendment, I will try to explain by who knows which time, that this law is worse than what is seen at first reading. So, some things we only saw today. The unique punishment resulting from the court's decision to, let's say, take the example that the person has committed ten crimes for those ten crimes, that the sentence of ten years in prison has been imposed on him. Individually for every crime of one year. That as a total punishment, instead of ten years he got seven years. He does not count on amnesty for a total sentence, so for seven years, but for an amnesty for ten years. This means that he will receive a 25% reduction in fines to ten years individually, which is two and a half years when it is applied to the seven-year sentence he has been given. His punishment will be four and a half years old. So that's the essence hidden in this law. I don't know how Mr. Jovanovic would explain this. I'm asking you, are you applying math to one of these cases, am I right or am I mistaken? If I'm mistaken, say, let the motionary's representative, the government's representative, say I'm mistaken, and I'll say thank you, but it'll be in the record from this session. If you say I'm right, it means that this law hides inside it some elements that increase the penalty reduction not by 25% for the most serious crimes, but also by more than 25%, so some people will be free. In that sense, I suggest that the Proposer reconsider, that he withdraw this law, not to return it to the procedure, but to complete it, that in a joint debate, which will be attended by authorised representatives of all interested parties and those who insist that Serbian closures be dispersed, that human conditions be introduced and those who may be affected by the consequences of these crimes, so that we find some compromise so that this law is not... Mr. Arsic, I must say, you weren't in the O.R. when I said I was against the law... (President: Do not address the MP directly. All right, I'm sorry. So when I said I was personally against the 2001 Amnesty Act, which Mr. Obradovic said was against the 2001 law, and I said he didn't know why it is now for this law. So, I think that 2001 law is bad. Personally, I don't think it should have been passed, as I don't think this law in this form should have been passed either. In that sense, this is not a political debate, believe me, from my point of view. I speak more as a lawyer who has taught basic postulates protection of law and the rule of law, which are: prevention, sanctions, resociation. Therefore, these measures must be compatible, and some in the ruling coalition are incompatible. No, they must be brought together. If you had adopted a resociation program, if you had in some way excluded certain crimes from this forgiveness, to say, or the Law of Amnesty, we could have discussed the degree of that amnesty. However, since it is a general amnesty, as only 20 exceptions are from the 281 crime, i.e. put aside, I don't think that's right. These are the good intentions of the DS representatives who participated today in the debate, and we are prepared to talk further if you return this law and if you give up this, according to us, very bad law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4408	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4409	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank my colleague for reminding me of what he said while I was in the O.R. But as he was saying it, this is what it looks like. The Amnesty Act does not cover 23 members of the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is related to crimes against humanity, eight members of the Law against Gender Freedom, 16 members against constitutional order and security, and all acts on organised crime, all acts of domestic violence. That's the problem with these discussions. I wouldn't answer it if it was accurate. And when one says, by this law, when it is passed, most of the people who are on a prison sentence will be freed, that is not true. One quarter of the fines are released. If someone is sentenced to 20 years, how much reduction will there be? How much is that one-quarter? Does he have any idea what 15 years it is? What's the flow of time? I also cooperate with families who have suffered certain damages or casualties, but there are crimes that are out of the blue. At that time, two families were necessarily destroyed, and one who suffered damage and a face, that is, a family of persons who caused a certain crime and made it out of trouble. So that, in my opinion, was the purpose of this law. Also, when it comes to lawyers, don't talk about it. We had here at the Serbian Parliament of Lawyer Bosko Ristic, who was delegated to the High Council of the Judiciary in front of this assembly, and he cannot be a member of the school board, and he chooses judges. (President: Time. Since he mentioned me more than once, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4410	The line to the replica is two minutes. Please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4411	I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4412	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4413	This is already a constructive debate. Mr. Arsic, you're right, and I'm right. One crime can be contained by more legal norms. You know that as a lawyer. I was talking about crimes individually. If this is how you count, then we have more than 281 crimes, because in one legal norm more crimes can be sanctioned, or punishments can be different. On the other hand, this part of the lawyer, you're right. I think we made mistakes. I think we paid the price in the election for it. It is possible that some individuals may have once been in conflict of interest, not realistically, legally, but in a moral conflict of interest. I'm not talking about a specific case, but you're really right. I believe that persons who are concerned with a specific situation and who can bring them benefit or reputation in society should not decide on the issues that are being discussed. I believe that it is in the right way to apply the provisions on conflict of interest, not in a way that makes it impossible for someone in the Republic Parliament to be in the local parliament. Well, where's the conflict of interest, how's it been interpreted in time? In that sense, I would agree in the most part, except for the fact that we continue to remain in this law that this law is too wide a framework for amnesty, that it covers practically most of the crimes, the most dangerous crimes, and in that part I disagree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4414	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4415	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I still don't think we can prevent the MPs from performing their duties. Each of the MPs has the right to participate in the work of parliament. The problem is that some MPs abused the right of the MP and delegated themselves outside parliament. There has been a conflict of opinion on whether the lawyer has the right to take part in this discussion. I think it's desirable. Don't stop our fellow MPs from speaking. They are the bearers of their mandate and sovereignty entrusted to them by the citizens. I only said once here, from this place – you have no moral right to tell us about it. I quote some of my discussion from a few months ago, where your colleagues jumped here and said you have no right, you cannot forbid us to talk. I didn't even talk about it. I absolutely didn't mention it to forbid anyone from speaking and that my fellow MP was. I witnessed that many of the laws were of the justice field, especially when the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution were written in the interest of a lobby in the state, and now we have a problem with the Constitutional Court which examines both the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution, because the laws are so conceived and thus written to harm the parties in the proceedings. It's not the same when the prosecutor is a close relative with a face that's damaged and a defender in a blood relative with a face that's damaged. (President: Time. You even prevented those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4416	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4417	I promise I won't answer again unless I'm directly mentioned. I would just like to say it one more time and point out that this is not about the desire to take away any MP's right to speak. However, I am still standing by the position that it is not moral for a MP, a lawyer, who has for the party a person who is currently in prison and directly related to this law, to discuss and support this law, because he certainly does not want to challenge it. I leave it to you to consider it different. At the MP's club, we had a lawyer who had a similar situation, and he said he wouldn't discuss it, because he thinks he'd find himself in a conflict of interest, a moral conflict of interest. In that sense, I stress, do not repeat our mistakes. We have paid for our mistakes, we have learned lessons from our mistakes and we are helping you not to make our mistakes, not for your party's sake, but for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4418	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a lawyer and a MP, and by circumstances, I'm just a guilty man. However, in college, I taught economic law, so in that context, I think I have the right to discuss with both professors and doctors, because, as I said, at the university, I taught economic law. Just to remind the citizens, all of us lawyers, we love our jobs, we're proud of our jobs. Our work is mentioned in the Constitution. The right of citizens to defend is constitutional law and civilization law. Just because we love our jobs, we don't get paid. I'm speaking for me, I don't know about my colleague Ned and anyone else, and as far as I know, we're not getting paid in the National Assembly, we're not getting any benefits from this guy's state. If we have a car, it's our car, it's not an official car. So, we love our work. That's one. Two, since we've just heard the reading of crimes that amnesty won't apply to, so we've heard that there are twenty crimes that amnesty won't apply to, because the application has been ruled out, right now to tell the citizens and all of us, it's not exactly 20, and now I'm going to read them. Amnesty is not applied at all to: genocide, crime against humanity, war crime against civilian population, war crimes against wounded and patients, war crimes against prisoners, organised incentive to commit genocide and war crimes, the use of illicit means of combat, illicit production and trafficking and the use of weapons whose use is prohibited, the killing and the wounding of enemies, the unlawful confiscation of things from killed, the violation of parliamentarians, the brutal treatment of wounded people, the unwarranted disposal of repatriation, the destruction of cultural goods, the non-prevention of the abovementioned acts, the abuse of international signs, the aggressive war, racial and other discrimination, trafficking of minors, trafficking of minors for the sake of adoption, the achievement of slavery of slavery, the threat of persons under international protection, international terrorism, the abuse of international signs, abuse of fraud, malpracticity, malpractice, malpractication of child abuse, malpractication. To continue: showing and mediating juvenile pornography, taking bribes, giving bribes, domestic violence, endangering independence, recognising capitulation and occupation, endangering the territorial continent, attacking constitutional order, calling for a violent change in constitutional arrangement, assassination, armed rebellion, terrorism, diversion, sabotage, sabotage, giving away state secrets, causing national, racial and religious hatred and impatience, breach of territorial sovereignty, joining for the sake of doing these previously listed works. It's not the end either. Plus all the acts for which the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice for Organized Crime is provided, plus no amnesty is applied to cases of persons who are so-called. multiple returnees, plus still has exceptions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not about 15-20 acts of amnesty, it's about a whole series of crimes, the hardest. Just to do a little bit of statistics, of about 12,000, to round up, people who are in jail, amnesty will apply to 3,600. Pure statistics say that amnesty will be affected, or in some way only one in four prisoners will be affected. So this is the first thing I had to say, let's clear up a little bit to Mr. Secretary, and to the citizens and to all of us. So the list of works that amnesty doesn't apply to is very wide. Why are these very pieces left out of the amnesty? The definition of SNS is a zero tolerance in the fight against corruption. That's why amnesty is not applied to receiving and giving bribes. We said we'd have zero tolerance in fighting organized crime. That's why anyone convicted in a court of law will not be affected by amnesty and will not benefit. It is very incorrect, especially for Serbian citizens, to call here that amnesty will cover those who caused the most severe incidents at football and similar matches. That's not true. I'll tell you why, I see a lot of people have reacted here. Because most of the time, and I'm saying this as a practice criminal lawyer, and I repeat it again, I'm proud to be a lawyer, and I'm proud of not getting paid here, but I have my job. Most often those who cause serious problems at games are blamed for criminal acts – challenging national and religious hatred and impatience and, in the end, what happened in Novi Pazar will most likely be qualified thus. Most likely, I don't want to interfere with the prosecution's work, but it does. If someone caused riots in the stadiums, usually young people, probably drank five, six, seven years – yes, they will be affected by this amnesty. Let's say, with eight years of punishment, he'll be reduced to a handful of years. I'm going back to what's fundamental now - why are we passing the Amnesty Act? Because we're just respecting an agenda brought by the former government to reduce and improve the situation in prisons. How can we improve the situation in prisons? By letting a certain number of people go. Who will be released immediately? Those who are sentenced to up to three months in prison. Tough criminals. Whoever's sentenced to three to six months will get a 50% cut. We've heard a lot of good and useful criticism. I couldn't agree more, in Serbia, the issue of the religious work in order to resociate in prisons is quite neglected. I agree with that, but it can't be solved by the Amnesty Act. Amnesty law is a one-time law. Let's do it again to the citizens -- now brought in, and last time it was brought in 11 years ago. About, statistically, if we're going to do it again, in our premises, this law is passed every 10 to 11 years. I don't count "ex specialise," which is, say, amnesty for not serving a military deadline. This is a one-time law that will now relieve the situation in prisons. No amendment, no discussion has been focused on this – how else can we reduce prison congestion? That our situation in prisons is catastrophic, it's catastrophic, and that's where we all agree. And Simeon gave his opinion, and the international community gave its opinion, and everyone gave their opinion, that they were prisons to us like in the Middle Ages. Do we have another solution? We could discuss that a lot of funding has been given to renovate prisons, especially from foreign aid in the last four or five years. In practice, we obviously don't see anything. If we're going to bid on individual names to get out of prison, I agree, it may be, I'm not Andrija Draskovic's lawyer, that he'll get amnesty in that sense to come out. Again, I ask the question - why did the trial against him last, seven or eight years? It is obvious, due to the poor judiciary inherited by SNS and Minister Selakovic. It's not right to mention it either, why didn't Minister Selakovic come today? The secretary of state can't answer his word, so I'll explain. Minister Selakovic is on a very important international visit. I'm sure he would, but he has other important things to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can bid and invoke individual names. If someone here thought to point to it, that I am today a defender of someone who will be affected by amnesty, let me tell you right now, I have told you publicly several times – I have withdrawn from all such cases, but I still love being a lawyer. I've withdrawn from all these cases, and none of my clients are going to be amnesty today. None. Let me finally publish, I think we've explained enough through this discussion to let the citizens know. This law won't let murderers out on the street. People who are sentenced to up to three months in prison will be released on the street. It's usually people for petty theft. Of course all the real families of the damaged remain. Whoever has the right to the damage claim still has it. All those convicted are kept on record for being convicted. If it's a distraction for their employment, they'll still be. So we had to unload the prisons. The justice ministry has proposed a law far more restrictive than the one from 2001. A law that is far more restrictive than the basic text of the law proposed in Bulgaria, and Bulgarians passed the same law for the same reasons we do. So as not to scare the citizens, maybe there was something better to be done. At the end of the line, I will thank the opposition's constructive efforts to show that some crimes may need to be reduced a little bit, not 25%, but 10%. The Department of Justice adopted that suggestion. One word, this is an extorted law, a civilized law needed. A law that will save a lot of money in the state budget, which will be released immediately on the streets by people who are sentenced to two months in prison. They're very hard criminals. I repeat, it'll save a lot of money. It may not help in some direct resociation, but I'm sure the Ministry of Justice will take care of alternative sanctions in the future, resociation. This is, to explain to the citizens, one extorted law. During the five hours of this discussion, we haven't heard any other solution to reduce the traffic in prisons. It's the only way. This is back in line with the agenda, with the program that brought the former Justice Department. I hope that the law will be passed with as many votes as possible and that once and for all, we will stop scaring citizens that by adopting this law, some violent murderers will walk down the street. That's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4420	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4421	The Honorable Chairman, I will speak of Article 4. The bill, since I think we've all forgotten what member we're on. Namely, in Article 4. The bill is regulated that amnesties are not legally sentenced to persons who, until the date of entry into force of this law, are ordered to issue an arrest warrant and for not reporting on the maintenance of the prison sentence or for the escape from the prison sentence. When I spoke in the previous discussion that this bill on amnesty was largely prescribed by the Law on Amnesty, adopted in 2001, this also applies to Article 4. Namely, what can happen in practice? It'll be a case if this is adopted, and I'm sure it will. So, the people for whom the arrest warrant was called, and it wasn't called for because they didn't report for a prison sentence or for running away from a prison sentence, but for some other reason, they'd be able to apply this law. As I said, the law is general, but it has its own bodywork and applies to individual cases. In our practice, we have the case of Luke Bojovic for whom an APB has been called, and for this reason he was arrested in Spain for a criminal offence being prosecuted by the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. Namely, he was given a fine for falsifying and carrying weapons by a court of law a year and something. So, in this case, if this bill is passed, an amnesty can be applied to that crime. Therefore, as we have spoken about the application of a single prison sentence, so is the case. We have inaccuracies. Amnesty will be able to be applied to persons on the run, and the warrant is not called for as a result of the escape or as a result of the non-reporting. Another remark. The legislator did not take enough care to ensure that this law was consistent and that cases like this were avoided that I was convinced that the promoter did not want to apply. Also, I have to say, there are no remarks about the fact that we didn't propose a solution that would treat those who might be treated with amnesty. Namely, our MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, has proposed that Article 1 be amended. A bill that would apply only to persons sentenced to six months, which would reduce the fine by 50%. I am deeply convinced that this would refer to those 1,100 people who will be released after the adoption of this law. Also, if it was going to be treated for persons convicted of a crime of less social danger, then why wasn't the amnesty premeditated offenses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4422	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4423	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand when the political passion came that we forgot what we talked about in the principle debate, and on the other hand, those MPs who said that part of the amendment was talking about those who became an integral part of the law and those who did not. Now we're discussing them. They concern the basic principles for which this law is adopted. As an authorised representative for this item of the agenda, I have to remind myself of a few facts that I thought we had cleared up, because the minister in the interpretation and the largest number of MPs, who discussed it, have found the following. Certainly amnesty has been recommended for years. It is perfectly understandable that such a law is not proposed at the end of someone's term, because it is always considered an abuse or an attempt to gain something. It is recommended not only by the Manchester and a whole series of international organisations, but obviously because of the results made by such moves in countries, where the similar state of amnesty has been applied. From countries in the region, such as Montenegro, to Italy where, in this percentage, a few years ago, amnesty was performed. Why am I saying this? Because it has been pointed out several times that amnesty is an act of political will. Of course, but this isn't any political amnesty. Secondly, she's not an act of mercy. If the state were able to make prisons, to provide personnel, Mr. Chikiriz wasn't here, he was talking about resociating, she wouldn't have to resort to one of these emergency laws. That's the first one. Second, the current state, and it's unbearable. I understand that because of political passion often in society, which is not humane, it is not humane to people on the loose, and it is particularly inhumane to those who do not see it, and especially to people who are isolated, and even to people in prison, to forget the rights of those people in the discussions. What's more important, if necessary, is that I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I remind you of what we discovered on that occasion, not here in the discussion, but by quoting the findings of an entire series of international organizations and of the Archives that we gave confidence, unanimously, not for a full month ago, which is that they are not safe prisoners, that they are not safe guards, that instead of all that is going to keep the prison sentence, we are further in the situation that many convicts in this situation are criminalizing themselves, that it endangers citizens in prisons, that the fundamental function of justice is not being fulfilled. Amnesty is never a matter of justice. To be clear, the amnesty isn't fair. That's why I realize it's about individuals. I don't move in those circles, I don't know anyone from those circles, so I don't know what it's all about, but it's important that we talk about most. Ask the citizens of Valjev, the citizens of Nis, the citizens of Sremska Mitrovica, Somboro, Zrenjanina, Belgrade, Pozharjevac, as many as you want, all the consequences of this situation in prisons. It's a particular question of victims. We have already mentioned in the principle discussion what is the problem of people who do not go, it is not as large a number as we heard today, I think that Mrs Malovic has drawn attention to me that there is a much smaller number during the private exchange of data, but it is certainly a large number of people who are legally convicted and not going to support the sentence. It's the biggest mockery and it's the most unbearable to those families of victims over whom someone has committed a crime. What surprises me is that on several occasions we have heard that here is being challenged, that is, the question, not necessarily, but common sense, what it says in the reasoning of the law, which is that socio-economic and political circumstances have changed. The MPs who say that nothing has changed in the last 12 years. How did nothing change? What did you do if nothing changed? Especially say that in this home. Many things have changed to worse, many for the better, but almost everything has changed. When it comes to this law, I'm going to give you a special example of which I guess everyone will be crystal clear about what's changed. The legislation has changed and court practice has changed. Where crimes, and the rule of serious murder, are committed by victims of violence, because domestic violence often ends in such a way, unfortunately, that, after a long time, victims of violence resort to violence, commit murder, and that's usually a hard murder, because these types of people are not experienced in criminal acts, they don't even know when they killed. These are often axe killings, etc., not to mention for the public a whole series of these situations. Everyone who met with these cases knows that neither the police were educated, nor had a legal basis, nor did the court know how to handle previous cases, in cases that preceded that final act of violence, so the court, as you know, returned the victims to the criminals. When you report domestic violence, even when the police react in the last decade, then the court doesn't actually know what else to do, there's nothing available, so until the case is solved, it's back to that family environment. Now it's all changed. You have a legal basis thanks to this very home in several convocations. You've got trained police. You have an engaged local self-government and a civil sector. You have houses where victims of violence are sheltered. (President: Mr. Markovic, I am obliged to remind you of your time. Why am I telling you this? Because several times it's been said, not only has nothing changed, but it's said that some things don't have to be amnesty, they have to be pardoned. These cases are the most common subject of pardon. But let me tell you right now, I signed 18 out of 24, 18 pardons were related to such a case. Former President Boris Tadic has in one case only pardoned such cases. Do you understand, as in the case of amnesty, not by the decision of this assembly, but the court individually must make a decision in order for someone to be released, it is necessary to ask for it to be pardoned. People like this, they're still in prison, they're people who committed criminal murders, they're usually sentenced to more than 15 years. That may be the only example of justice. I suppose even the current president in pardons, where they're asked, but those faces don't have a bunch of lawyers behind them, those faces don't have family support, as you know, are in no position to start a process and ask for pardon, but this is the only act of possible justice. But once again, I want to point out that it's a shame, and I end up with these laws being passed by consensus, it's a shame we missed that opportunity. Some of the amendments, I will look at it, I suppose, that I will vote for one amendment by Mr Veselinovic, some of the amendments have been adopted in part, and these amendments proposed by the Committee on Justice, but in any case, I ask you to take advantage of this debate by the end of today's debate and to see if it is possible for the largest number of MPs to vote for this law in the coming period. It's a law, once again I say, which is not an act of mercy, it's not just, it's an emergency, but it's one of the preconditions that we can make safer and more human society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4424	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, are you answering the amendment? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Why the replica? You didn't mention it. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: Mr Cvian referred directly to my discussion. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4425	Mr. Markovic mentioned me, I thank him, but the replica is on Mr. Cvian's discussion. Absolutely my discussion didn't apply to Mr. Cvian, first of all because he wasn't discussing this law today, so I'm excluding any possibility. On the other hand, Mr. Cvian said it was potentially for the amnesty of 12,000 convicted persons. I'm just reading a bill that says there's a total of 8,000 convicted persons. So 3,600 will be covered by 8,000 convicted persons. The third thing is that the conditions in prisons are bad and heavy and that there are too many prisoners per square metre of prison, if that's what we can say. However, there is no better situation in hospitals, school homes, schools, and other institutions where there are very inhumane conditions. Why did we start in prison? What social circumstances have changed since three months ago, since this government took office? I'd probably get the chairman by the head if I started reading the crimes covered by the Amnesty Act again. (President: You don't have time. ) They are 90 times higher than those not covered by this law on amnesty. This is what I end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4426	Thank you. The word has Mr. Cvian in its tail.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4427	I apologize for the lapus I made. When I said nearly 12,000 people, I was also thinking clearly of those who are in custody, and I believe that we could even hold a special session to discuss how easily detention is determined and how bad the terms of detention are. Yes, you're right, it's not 12,000, I wrongly said, there are 8,000 convicted people, and 3,600 people will be given amnesty, and we see that the statistical half of them, but much less than half of the convicted persons will be affected by amnesty, which completely rules out any story that amnesty is non-restrictive, that it's applied to murderers, etc. It's applied in the way it says in the law. On the other hand, if we were to go individually and watch crimes, I'm sure we'd find some other interesting things that amnesty isn't applied to, and it'd probably be interesting to apply and discuss the same thing, as well as vice versa. For example, one of these works is commenting on the ineligible judgments and commenting on court proceedings. I am sure that until the change of government, this work has happened many times in practice. We could discuss that too. We could also discuss a lack of respect for the law by the judges. We could talk about a lot of other crimes, but it's already turning this discussion into a single market, whether we're going to apply a new act or not. It's simple, this law is extorted. He had to reduce the number of people in prisons, and some of the acts maybe we don't like what's in the law, some of which are supposed to be in the law. Maybe one way or another, I repeat, for the sake of the citizens, for the record, we've accepted useful suggestions from the opposition. We've reduced the degree of amnesty for some serious crime, and we'll end up in a situation where, thanks to this law, 3600 people are released. It is the optimum that we need to meet both the EU and European standards, but to satisfy us as civilized people as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4428	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed this amendment, wanting first of all to technically prepare and specify the application of this law. Therefore, amnesty does not apply to persons who, because of not reporting for the maintenance of the prison sentence, have not responded to the maintenance of the sentence, are not subject to amnesty. I added, "if a call was made to them neatly and they did not apply for a delay whose solution is under way." I don't know what's funny, but it's okay. So, first of all, we have in mind that the Department of Justice was in charge of the execution of office sanctions. In France, for example, the greatest abuse in the Ministry of Justice is the abuse of Minister Rashida Dati, who had eight lovers, so she doesn't know whose child she is. So, unfortunately for us, we don't have that kind of abuse at the Justice Department, but we have all the other abuses. Here when former members of the Department of Justice and former members of the Department of State Administration, when they say that we are supposed to amnesty some drug dealers should know that during their term of office a judge, not only did he not condemn one of their well-known writers, because of drug trafficking, but he almost didn't. She's only fined, and if they've lasted a little longer, I believe she'll get some medal next time. Therefore, it is a public secret that there have been various abuses in our ministry, so it is likely that there has been manipulation of the suspension of penalties, hence this amendment makes it clear. How do you find the drug dealers and get them a call to support the fine when they sold them the companies? After that, when they sold them the companies, they took the company's idea, expelled them, put out warrants, but they didn't mind riding their yachts, luxury cars and Ferraris. It is a public secret in Belgrade that individual members of the former justice ministry drove in Saric's cars. So, there's some kind of confiscation directorate at the Justice Department, I don't know exactly where he is, but I believe that those who are criticizing us today and how they know it, since they were seen in cars taken from drug dealers. So they were expelled to use all the goods they took from those drug dealers during the exorcism and then put out an APB for them. How do you explain that the party official of the former regime, how to send him a call in the future, when he has so much real estate, has a house next to Saric's on Tatar Hill, which is more expensive and larger than Saric's. I can't understand it at all, and that's why I'm saying that the Ministry of Justice in France has had minimal abuses unlike ours and that we haven't had enough luck. It's said here that we've amnested too many faces. So, I think a colleague of mine from my club of MPs said that 3600 will be released. A little over 1,000 and even less will be released because the amendment of the competent committees has significantly reduced amnesty for certain works. So how to deliver calls neatly to execute fines to persons, let's say, like former officials who have two passports. Besides the Serbian passport, they also have Croatian. How do you send them an invitation to execute a sentence or to postpone a sentence, how to deliver anything to them, and there are 10% in particular in Vojvodina? So, who have two passports even though we don't have a Croatian law on dual citizenship. The passport also means "homewife." So if they're convicted of how to deliver it to them? I'll pray nicely, through corn or through some forest, or swim across the Danube into their "beautiful" and they'll be inaccessible to us. It is quite unclear how someone who has performed the most state functions if he is charged and convicted will not be able to endure the sentence because he has two citizenships, so Croatia will refuse to hand him over. It's almost unclear to me why the criticisms come from these lines, and that's what I'm trying to say, that, except that we amnesty and release these petty criminals, the rest of us are slightly reducing the sentence unlike the former law on amnesty where, say, 6000 were amnesty 4200. So, only 1800 wasn't amnesty. In this situation of 8,000 amnesty is 3600, and a little more than 1,000 is released. Therefore, amnesty does not cover more than 4,000 people. So, I don't understand that kind of objection, especially about drug dealers, so if you've already given up those drug cartels and you're using their yachts and cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4430	The word is from MP Borko Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4431	Of course, I'll take the opportunity to say that it's really hard for me to see Mr. Cvijan and Mr. Babic in these situations, and I greatly respect them, as people in their majority are just confirming their words just now. They're absolutely running to fill out prisons based on commenting on court proceedings. So I'm afraid that the SNS club would be left without an MP if what Mr. Cvian rightly sought was fulfilled. I know you agree with me. It's your parliamentary life and sometimes things get very fast, in a strange, twisted way, like a boomerang coming back. We will, of course, not comment on any MPs by name, because it is essential that as many of these messages are sent from your club as possible because Serbian citizens then see a truly one sad picture and one utter distaste and ground floor discussion, unargued without proof that the chairman should react primarily. But in the end, the amendments are here. The ruling majority and the government have two solutions. It's scary listening to crimes when Dr. Vesenovic read them here. I know that for the citizens of Serbia, no matter where the foreigners are, there is indeed a big problem. I agree with you that the spirit of the law and of the legislator and of the people who created the will of the ruling majority through this act is absolutely at odds with what civilization is, with something of state interest, with something that is a real problem in Serbian prisons. But I'm telling you, you have a chance to change this or by adopting Dr. Veselinovic's amendments or by withdrawing this law. If it's impossible to change further, we're facing a real problem that unfortunately we didn't have an answer to. The fact is that the people who are in business will get less punishment than predicted. The fact is that the murder isn't covered by the exceptions to amnesty from me completely unknown to today's unexplainable reasons. The fact is that violence on sports grounds has not been settled, and I agree with Mr Cvian that recent incidents of crime have been motivated by ethnic hatred, racial hatred, etc. But what about things like Music, what about things like assaulting Branko Stankovic, what about other things when there's a destruction of property, etc? So these things just don't make me realize why they're not excluded from amnesty. The simple question is that you can't give us an answer, but you're just talking or under a) these are the things we've excluded, which is legitimately good for me. I agree, and all these acts must not be excluded, i.e. I mean, they're supposed to be excused, but I want you to fill them in this way. Since it is too late and you cannot supplement them, the only way to accept the amendment is to delete the matter, and that amnesty applies to people as Dr. Vesenovic predicted in the amendment that the amount of punishment, and for the rest, to shift our energy, and to focus all MPs on changing the law that will allow much better things. I know that it is without any reason that we here are discussing criminal proceedings, Serbian prisons, it is known that the bad situation is in all of this. It's not just the previous government's fault that's done a lot more she's done before, and she's done a lot more than she's done before. In this country, they're not citizens of capacity and you know it. Still, something has been done, and what's done, it's a small part of what needs to be done. The minister of justice, with all due respect, I think he's brought together a good team of people, not everyone, there are people who don't deserve it, but there are people who know this matter well. It's about time, and I say in front of the DS, that the government gentlemen stop trying to determine the state they've established in the election campaign and finally do something about it specifically. We're amazed that we're the first two things, the law on extraparious procedure and the Law on public notebooks, the Law on Amnesty, the things you go out with us. Is there not much more painful and more difficult to solve in this country, because you have, I repeat, established these things in a pre-election campaign. You can't explain it at all. Where'd that unpreparedness come from, where did it come from? When you knew all this in the campaign, I watched very carefully your party media and you knew what was wrong with the justice system and remembers Mr. Cvian, his interviews, his statements, and why now this unnecessarily months of determining the situation with a team of people as one smaller army? Shouldn't you have come up with a solution for those prisons? Do I need an opposition through a zero amendment we've submitted, and we're doing the same with the intention of helping, but you reject it and yet you say, we didn't suggest anything. We did, we suggested. Do we have to go out here and say, "make newer, better, bigger prisons, and does he have money for it?" There isn't. How do you plan to save? Not at all. We're even more in debt, it's an even bigger deficit, what are we going to make them with? And let's let people go, all right, but let those at least, let them go up to six months, don't use them linearly, except, I think, justifiable exceptions, which we of the DS think is necessary to supplement. It's over now. The citizens need to know, it's over. There's nothing we can do about it. They won't accept our amendment. It's too much mud for the ruling coalition. Gentlemen, there will be greater shame when things happen and those who don't need to go free, and it can't be hidden. So what do we do? So we're gonna charge each other? No need, do it now, it's socially responsible, it's state-sponsored, and that's why we're looking this way. No aggression, no transfer, no charges, do it. I deliberately mentioned unauthorized listening, it's possible that no one was convicted, but it's a strong political message. Every act in this assembly carries a strong political message from the legislator, his motives, the will of the ruling party, and now your men are on strike, right now, in their words. I'm sorry, I think that would be good, and if anything, you wouldn't let Stefanovic tell you today. You have to think a little ahead, running the state is a very serious thing. I'm saying it because I want to put these people in front of the DS to give them a chance to make a better regulation than they are. It is simply not right for some MPs to react in this way to a sentence that is truly with the best intentions of reforming the rules. None of you have anything to measure what you're measuring right now. That's why there are courts. If we're going to throw the courts in the ditch, if we're going to make judgments here, if we're going to charge the prisons with what Mr. Cvian said, you're not going to hear it from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4432	Mr Stefanovic, time is up for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4433	I'm done. We're exposed enough to unargumented assaults and charges. Take care, things have changed in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4434	So, Mr. Stefanovic, time is up for your parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4435	Mr. Minister, I believe that parliament is the place where different opinions are faced in order to achieve the highest quality solution, and in that tone I understood Mr. Stefanovic's discussion. But what I have to say is that one law on amnesty cannot prevent attacks and reduce attacks on sports grounds. I think it can be done by a special law, and it seems to me that since that attack, from that May Gary, Enrico Canton, a few dozen years ago on sports grounds in England, such things didn't happen, even though there's no fence, no directors, but it's being solved in another way, by the wrongdoers, and they're not allowed to enter sports fields, and even until that extent, it goes when their club or these clubs have a game, that they spend that time in detention, and that's not the theme of the Amnesty Act, and that's why I'm inviting you not to mix grandmothers and frogs. On the other hand, what's being directed to the Justice Department, which is that nothing else has been done besides the court's schedule. Excuse me, High Council, and we're already at the amnesty, the VSS and the State's Chief Prosecutors had two members from the ranks of lawyers and professors. For years these people, months back by decision of the Administrative Committee of the Assembly's majority from the previous assembly, have changed their fee from a parliamentary allowance of 30,000 dinars to 190.000 or six average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. Ten million dinars were thus burned, given to four people. Where was Mr. Veselinović's morale? Where morality is if the VCC, as a rule, has 29 members who now have 23 members with the president of the VCC or 20% fewer members, have assigned themselves a decision by the President of the Court, each month a salary higher by 30%. What are the criteria by which rules, how, is this a reformed judiciary? On the other hand, what I would really call you, forget about fear. With fear, you poisoned Serbian citizens in the campaign, with fear poisoning Serbian citizens until May 20th. What was said about Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic? The citizens of Serbia did not believe you, and you did not hand over power to Mr Stefanovic, because if you were in a position to surrender something, power is the last thing you would hand over. Your authority has been taken away by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is good that you have accepted this will, as we will always accept the will of the citizens, however it may be. You continued to fear and when the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, it was said, there will be a shortage of basic life supplies, we will not be accepted by the international community, we will be the last country in this world, and it is not Fear and when the governor of the NBS is appointed, the crazy euro, and it is stable. What do the businessmen say? What do the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say? How many Euros were during the term of office of the previous governor, and how many are now? Forget about fear, unless you have it according to the policy of the SNS which is viewed in one sentence, which is, zero tolerance to crime and corruption, unlike the previous period when this tolerance was directly proportional to the size of the crime for which those persons were convicted. Thank you. 41/1DJ/VZ18. 35-18.45
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4436	Thank you. I'm sorry, I have Mr. Oliver Dulic's system, and I don't see he's in the O.R. Did someone slip his card into the system by mistake? Please check. Thank you. So, Janko Veselinović, right on the line, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4437	Thank you. We didn't get an answer just by what kind of fear and in what period, whether before or after the election was stolen, which was feared by the representatives of the SNS in the election cycle, which was proven not to be there. In this way you put a political dimension into today's discussion, which was really not necessary. On the other hand, the DS wants to point out that we are in favour of passing a law that will benefit the citizens, not at their expense. Once again, do not repeat our mistakes, we paid our mistakes by the fact that our coalition, in which we participated, received 70% of the votes in the previous elections, but we did pay, we got 1-2% less votes than the SNS. If you're surprised, the second part of the coalition that was with us in power is now with you, knocking on an open or closed door. The police minister in the previous assembly of this parliament and the previous government was Mr. Dacic, and if you have any objection to his attitude towards the fight against crime, it is an attack on him. If that's what you're up to, I'll allow it. But on the other hand, Minister Dacic, together with the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, is responsible for the most active and most applicable fight against crime that was not purely declarative, but was in reality, so the biggest criminals and the largest organized groups have been found out of bars, so do not repeat our mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4438	Thank you. Replica Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4439	Thank you. I know when I hear those sighs, you look forward to my presentation, and believe me, it's mutual joy. So, fear doesn't exist, there's an indication of obvious failures, if every time we point out something that isn't right for you to answer in this way, we won't as a country go far. You must learn to communicate with us, as we have learned with you. So if you haven't been able to answer any questions, and if we've moved the whole story back to what the previous government was doing, what this government is doing, it's very bad news for the citizens of Serbia. The message to Mr Babić is – it is okay, those who have committed crimes on sports grounds are completely people involved in this amnesty and will be released. The message is also very bad because of Bris Taton and Branko Stankovic and the man who was attacked by Uroš Misic, others who suffered such or such damage to those crimes. Message, no murder involved. I'm still completely incomprehensible. Why are you avoiding a crime? It's just, if you had added to that text, everyone would have a lot less problems here and a lot less debate. It's unclear because it's done, it's completely unclear. You've chosen one methodology, you've chosen one direction, you've chosen justifiable crimes that are exempt, I repeat justifiablely, from the amnesty, but let's not bring them. These are two that I point out to be very problematic and third -- unauthorized listening. I'm putting a political dimension into this conversation, that's exactly what I'm talking about. You're the one who should look into your party president's face later and say, "Why isn't that there?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4440	Thank you. Mr. Cvian replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4441	It's not exactly a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4442	By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4443	No, as part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4444	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4445	Anyway, it could be a replica. It'll take two minutes. So, let's make one more deal, I thought we'd clear that up a little bit sooner. Fans who have been savaged on sports grounds will not enjoy the benephite amnesty, if they have committed, for example, the crime of causing religious, racial, and national hatred and impatience, and those who are most, let's just say, swindled and done in stadiums, are just as guilty. So we can't say that now this amnesty of the benefites is going to have absolutely everyone, that's one. Two, come on, maybe it's time for us and our citizens to clarify a little difference between amnesty, that's the law we're discussing today and pardoning. So, amnesty is an act of mercy to all, collectively speaking, and the same, when given to an individual person, by name and last name, where Pera Peric or whoever, is released and released from prison or replaced by a punishment, is called pardon. Compassion under the Constitution is given by the President of the Republic. I think statistically that the previous President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, gave about 1200 pardons, from an opportunity. Now, all the time he was president of the state, how incorrect it would be if we started talking about individual names of pardoned persons. That would be extremely incorrect, because then we would scare people that way. Just as some incorrect speakers are now, my predecessors present some names that will be affected by the benefits of amnesty. So be it. The law applies equally to everyone. It's not right to enter names, because I repeat, the law applies equally to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4446	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4447	It's a question for Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4448	You have no right, don't at least let me explain to you that you have no right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4449	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4450	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I ask the Proposer's representative if he accepts the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4451	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4452	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I ask the Proposer's representative if he accepts the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4453	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4454	Thank you. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, New Serbia is thanking the accepted amendments, but we believe that there was room for this amendment to be accepted, as it is a technical amendment, which would help interpret this law. Of course, it's not a big problem, but why is it that every time we have a law, we don't clear it to the end, but one part of the law is cleared up, and the other part of it is kind of complicated? We need to understand that this law will read and learn from them and the students of law school, so it is easier for them to explain this law with such an amendment safely. So, what's this all about? First, I will read what the proposed text indicates – for a convicted who has not taken the penalty, the solution to the application of amnesty will be brought by the court within three days of the date of receipt of the request. So, the New Serbia amendment is that in Article 7(3), after the word "within three days of the day of receipt" the point is deleted and the words "Article 6(1) of this law are added". Namely, in the previous position of this proposed member, it is said: "The court will, by official duty within three days of the date of receipt, be informed of the position of the first member". So it explains the situation all the way from item 1, and we just want to and we explained that the text of the law should be clear and accurate. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to add in this place a reference standard which precisely defines which, or whose request it is, when it comes to the adoption of a solution to the application of amnesty to a person who has not yet entered into detention. So, with this amendment, we want to make a connection between Article 7 and Article 6, because it fully explains. Fortunately, this law has a dozen members, but in laws that have 40-50-60 members this should be applied, although we stand by the fact that this too, Mr. Minister, should be accepted. We find that logical is one little correction of text that fully explains this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4456	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. You have four more minutes as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4457	That's what I'm saying, as an authorised representative. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, at the end of this debate and in particular, we as DS MPs are not convinced that we should vote for this bill in this form as proposed. Like we said, we're not against amnesty. We also understand the reasons why amnesty is brought. We also understand the reasons for the overcrowding of our prisons, the need to bring certain changes into our prison system, but we certainly don't think that the way to solve this issue is amnesty in this form as proposed. General amnesty as it is proposed is not good. I think it'll come back to us as a society. Unfortunately, you should have taken more care of that. I have also tried in my debate on several occasions to point out the technical shortcomings of the law itself, which are being passed through several members of this bill and through Article 3, which refers to the way amnesty is calculated in terms of sentences imposed and Article 4 relating to persons under arrest. Like I said, I don't think there was any evil intention. I just think there's been a technical error because there's not been enough attention in lawmaking. With that in mind, I have to say that we haven't won yet, and here's the answer at the end of the debate, which is why the emergency procedure law is proposed and what are the adverse consequences that would have taken place if this law hadn't been passed. If it was meant to be overcrowded, as it is here and tried to explain, then it could also be achieved by covering those who have been sentenced to prison for up to six months, which, by logic, things are certainly condemned for the crimes of less social danger. There was also something here that was said about the bill itself, which is not strictly in the law regarding some crimes. It has been said in this sense that the bill, when adopted, will refer to concrete persons, to specific fates, to one's freedoms. In addition to this character, there is one much wider character, and that is a certain political message to be sent. As I have stated, I am not sure that, when the law is passed, the government's goal in the fight against organised crime and corruption will be consistently implemented because, after the adoption of this law, it will benefit certain persons who are rightly and also for the criminal act of corruption, who are convicted. I want to believe that this government has the goal of combating crime and corruption. I want to believe the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Vukic, on that, but everyone else within the government should know that if such draft laws come before parliament and if these laws are adopted, they will certainly not follow what they are doing. As before, we will be a constructive opposition. I think that in our discussions we have shown this today, but we certainly cannot vote for the law, as I said, which will contribute to getting faces like Andrija Draskovic or Sreten Jocic, Uros Nisic and many others out of prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4458	Thank you. We don't have a word for it anymore. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4459	Let me just say a few words. Since I'm replacing my colleague Nikola Selakovic, it's my turn to say for the fourth time since some obviously haven't heard. counterpart Selakovic is at an international meeting with colleagues from the region. I think that's enough reason why he couldn't be with you today. I took the obligation to replace him and I tried, along with my colleagues, who are very experienced, the people of the Justice Department, to answer the possible questions that have been asked. I say possible, because part of the questions that were heard today in the Assembly in this debate were objectively different from the content of the law. In any case, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate. I call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to declare in the voting day in favour of the adoption of this law because it is a law that is detailed. I dare say it's more quality than the one in 2001, because we compared the provisions of that law to the law that is before you. By the way, this is not the last law the Assembly will discuss in the area of justice. About 15 laws are under public debate. They are almost finished, so, dear fellow Members of the People, you will have the opportunity to talk a lot about the state of justice and in general about everything you should do for the good of the country. I agree with all MPs who have said that the laws are such that they are not made according to personalities, but to create a system. Ours should not be spoken, yours and theirs, for the law is made for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not for any individual. To my colleague, Jank. At a time when I've been tapped, the case hasn't been solved yet. I was an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The case has been going on for four and a half years, which is very interesting, and the case is already closed. The average Serbia's lawsuit is seven years and the case is over. I got the process, but this part isn't finished. You can see for yourself why – because it is obviously a ticklish subject and no one dares to bring the matter to an end, so I will find it interesting both as a citizen and as a minister to see the development of events related to new listening in Serbia. In any case, the matter should be examined to the end and anyone who participated in appropriate punishment, in accordance with the provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-06-0.u4460	Thank you. We continue work tomorrow, 7 November 2012, at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
