ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2105	I thank you for this kindness. I'd like to ask for a little silence, though I don't mind this either. I submitted an amendment the government refused. I didn't expect anything better. The amendment concerns the Law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. My proposal is that, when tax controls are carried out, tax inspectors have a proper degree of responsibility. So far, the tax control of the former government has mostly been an instrument for action against political opponents, if they are engaged in some private business. Under number two, on the ground itself, especially in smaller areas, the tax inspection also served to remove competition. So, when the tax inspector comes to you, you don't know whether tax control came to you, whether it came to you by competition, or whether you had control from the ranks of political competition, so I suggested this amendment that if tax inspectors write a report, if that application was rejected in court, then that the penalty prescribed for the taxpayer should be applied, but in this case, the tax inspector who made that solution should also be subject to liability. In practice, it is often the case that these solutions and those criminal charges are seized by the courts, that even before the court and before the prosecution, the application is rejected, that it is returned to the first-degree body for re-determination, and that the money that was removed from tax control is never returned. Worse still, I know it on my own skin, that such an application is used in the press, especially in the press that is owned and controlled by the former regime. So I submitted this amendment. So that I don't go too far, I'd like to thank you for your attention. Let me tell you, if the government doesn't accept it, I'm withdrawing the amendment, because I'm not going to let most of it split on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2106	To inform you, you cannot withdraw the amendment now. So he's in the process. Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2107	I just want to say it's a good idea, but we've changed the practice so far in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. So as of January 1st, no more misdemeanor courts will decide on the violations, but the direct tax administration will file criminal charges. Your proposal is good, but not applicable, because we're changing the system. In the current system, the courts that decide are in violation. We felt that it was an inefficient system and we came forward with a proposal in this law that, as of January 1st, the direct tax administration would impose criminal penalties. So it doesn't go to criminal courts anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2108	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2109	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendment to Article 28. It's a bill of law. Article 28 The draft law provides that the Director of the Tax Administration has a deputy director who corresponds to the Director for his work. The Deputy Director shall assist the Director in the framework of the powers which he shall appoint and replace if he is absent or prevented. The deputy director sets up the government for a period of five years, on a proposal from the minister. I added that – and after a public competition. In order not to be inconceivable, I have suggested that this text of the law also states that the establishment is carried out after a public competition, precisely because the Law on State Employees provides that for persons, civil servants in office are prescribed to conduct the competition. I received a reply that the Government did not accept my amendment for the following reasons – given the proposed powers and obligations of the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration, means that it helps the Director under the authority he has appointed, replaces the Director if he is absent or prevented, the Government is of the view that the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration should be appointed in the same way as the Director, i.e. The government's act on a proposal from the finance minister for a five-year period, which is why the amendment is not accepted. Based on the government's explanation, it turns out that as of today neither the Director of the Tax Administration will be required to call a public competition. So, according to the Government's opinion on my amendment, the practice that has been in force over the past period to respect the Law on Civil Servants is changing. Namely, the appointed director of the Tax Administration, Mr. Radosavljevic, was appointed after a public competition and when re-nomination took place again. That is why, I do not understand, or my suspicion that the proposed Article 28 is confirmed. The bill wants to avoid public competition. Furthermore, I suggest that Article 29. The bill defines the appointment, i.e. the selection of the managers of the tax administration's organisational units. And that is where the competition is scheduled and it is even in Article 29, but also in Article 43, defined to conduct a public competition. What particularly filled me with doubt, and it is obvious that the suspicion is justified, in Article 43. The draft law defines that the tax administration is obliged to initiate a procedure for selecting the managers referred to in Article 29 of this Law within eight days of the date of entry into force of this law by public competition. So it's defined when a competition is being held for the manager, and it's not defined whether or not a contest is being called for for those who should be above. That is why I have proposed in Article 28 – come on, define, at least that a competition will take place. I did not insist that the competition would take place within eight days, as defined for the leaders of the organisational units, but this argument does not seem to be good, i.e. heats up the suspicion that the Law on Civil Servants will not be respected. Finally, I'd like to point out to all of you that on August 13th, a former director of the IRS was relieved. According to the information I have, I allow ad perhaps I do not have complete information, no competition has yet been called for director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the information that I have still has not even been set up by the Director of the Tax Administration. True, by a certain solution whether the Minister has appointed a person with the authority to sign acts and for that person who is authorised to sign acts, the director of the Centre for Large Tax Obligors has been authorised. I have no idea if she's still doing this job and this new job or if she's only doing one job. In any case, I believe it is useful to adopt the amendment and to define that at least in this part, the obligations of the Civil Service Act will be respected and the competition will be held for the Director and Deputy Director of the Tax Administration. It always remains possible for all those who have responded to the competition, who meet the legal requirements, to propose to the government who it will be and to have the government decide from all those people who meet their obligations after the competition. I think it would be useful, true, it is not foreseen, deadlines for the public competition and for the Director of the Tax Administration and for the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration, which has not been done, but I urge it to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2110	Mr. Risticevic, I have remained obliged to explain to you that if you wish to withdraw the amendment, you can withdraw it in writing through the office. Here's a word, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2111	First I want an explanation how long can the debate take after one amendment? This is where I use the time of the parliamentary group. I'm afraid my predecessor has timed out by two and a half times. As an applicant for the amendment, I think he's entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2112	Let me tell you, Mr. Risticevic, we take care of it. Two minutes is an amendment debate, and the rest is taken from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2113	I'm using MPs' time this time, that's what I'm saying, to make it clear and clear. That's the point of my address to you. What I'm saying here is that a certain gentleman, who was director of the IRS, was sacrificed in the justice of God. If anyone thinks he was neutral, they're wrong. I know him and his brother, and I know they're prominent members of the party of the former regime. So, right where my predecessor came from. They well imagined it, in the sausage of some public competitions, they pushed their unscheduled party personnel and then they wanted to let us enforce the laws the same way they did while they were in power. The way law enforcement was done, I felt the best in my skin. That's why in my amendment I had previously said that it was a party instrument, which was often used against political opponents, and that in a certain way the competition was removed, a friend of their party, if you disturb him in the relevant business, if you are engaged in ransoming and disturbing one of their friends, from their tycoon who financed their political party, in which case, the director of their tax administration, through tax authorities and tax officials and thus removed competition in the business. In the same way, rules and political damage to political opponents, who were to be measured with them in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2114	Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2115	Since I've been invited to discuss indiscriminately, I think all those in the O.R. have been able to see for themselves the absolute principle of my discussion. I haven't talked here about anyone else's work so far, any function at all. I was only talking here about the way a director or deputy director of the tax administration should be appointed. I have strictly adhered to the amendments I have submitted, and I have explained why I believe that you, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, should support me and adopt the proposed amendment to Article 28. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. I gave you reasons why it would be useful. In no way did I raise the question and spread the topic beyond what was proposed by the law and what was proposed by the amendment. I'm just pointing out the indiscipline in the bill and amendment itself, trying to make things right and clear. I just commented that practice confirms all the justification to submit such an amendment. I even made a well-intentioned suggestion that public competitions under the Civil Service Act were implemented. The fact is, that's what I was saying when there was a speech about the disputed member of the 38th, on the basis of which the Director of the Tax Administration was dismissed, that it was possible to resolve this by applying the Law on State Officials which provides for the possibility of emergency control.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2116	The word has Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2117	Mr. Mikovic, I think you're right. I think it's a mistake to explain government officials. Since we have proposed in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration that all 173 directors of the tax administrations are elected by public competition, which has not been the case so far, given that both directors and assistant directors of the tax administration are subject to the Law on civil servants, and that we are now introducing the place of deputies for the first time because it has not existed so far, it is logical to apply the public competition, which you have proposed. I suggest that this amendment be accepted when there is a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2118	Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2119	I'm reporting on the replica, just like before. I'd only say one thing. I am pleased that you accept the proposed amendment. There's one thing I can't agree with you on. In light of the government's opinion on the amendment, it is not about the error of the officials, this is about the error of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The document signed by the prime minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, no matter who prepared his act, is the government's mistake in terms of reasons. I accept that it was very difficult for 28 laws that came by emergency procedure, to read each sentence and see everything. I pointed out why it was necessary for these laws to be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure, not the emergency procedure, just so that these mistakes and technical mistakes of the officers could be reduced to the best possible measure. But the moment someone signs the document, it's also his fault. We can now measure whether it was a mistake, and an officer, and the other one who prepared, both members of the government and those who read and who did not read, who were not able to read the materials, but here they received a document from the government, not a document from the officials. In that sense, I believe that in the future, as much as possible, the laws should be considered by regular procedure, not by emergency procedure, because we will be aware of these mistakes to a lesser extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2120	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2121	We're sitting here today to see if something's wrong. The moment it's voted, it's only then that it comes into effect. So this is going to be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2122	The word has Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2123	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I am pleased that the minister has seen that a mistake has been made and that it has been corrected. This initial proposal was contrary to the Civil Service Act, but it was also very illogical. According to the proposal, the Deputy Director should be elected by the Government and the Minister's proposal, and the Director of the Tax Administration is elected through a public competition, all assistant directors of the Tax Administration are elected through competitions, all regional centre directors are elected through competitions, and now according to a new proposal, which I support, and branch directors, i.e. the exposure will be chosen by competition and that is very good. I support and support this solution as the minister supports the amendment. I can't accept and agree to have new competitions going on right now, because that's how the Institute of Public Competition devalues itself. What's this about? Two years ago, the government launched a contest to elect a director of the Tax Administration, to elect an assistant director of the Tax Administration and to elect a director of regional tax centres. So, the government called, absolutely, under the Law on Civil Service, competitions were conducted and people were elected. After two years we'll have new competitions, I don't know why. Does this mean that after each change, the finance minister will have new competitions, even though people have not expired their mandate in previous competitions? What I'm saying is that the Director of the Tax Administration was elected under the Civil Service Act to pass the contest and there was no single reason for the man to be removed on August 13th. I think he did his job well, but that's less important. It's important that a man is elected and there's no reason for his shift, or at least he's not listed. What's just as important and what I want to point out about the director of the IRS is that the man is absolutely professional in this job, the doctor is a legal scientist... (President: Please return to the topic. The theme of the competition is very important. So that's the topic. I say, he was elected in the spirit of the law. Mr Dinkic, what is also important, at a time when you were a minister, which is the period from 2004 to 2006, often referred to during your speech, and then was a competition for the director of the Tax Administration. One of the people who passed the contest was Dragutin Radosavljevic. So as early as 2006, he proved his expertise and ability, passed the competition commission, later elected, to be removed. I ask you that in the future, every government does not destroy what it has done before. What kind of message do we send to people who want to compete? You only last as long as this government lasts, and I don't think it's Mr Dinkic's idea, or the new government, or anyone else. In the end, I would like to propose something to Mr Dinkic, which is that when you adopt the 2013 budget, you pass the interest write-off law, because it's a law that supports and requires most businessmen, and you are calling for meetings with businessmen... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Giddick, please return to the topic and the subject is an amendment. I'm done. So to pass the law write off interest, because the economy owes a lot of money, more than half of it is interest. So you will help the economy in this way, but it seems to me that you will also help the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because in 2013, if this law is passed, there will be more money in the Republic budget. In the end, I cannot support the amendment, because the amendment was accepted by the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2124	MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2125	Dear Presidency, I would like to ask a question – can the authorised minister continue to discuss and discuss the same amendment after the approved amendment? Since we see that the minister has accepted, I don't know why we continued the discussion. If we have, then let me return briefly to the amendment submitted by Mr. Risticevic. I think Minister Dinkic misunderstood the intensities of the amendment submitted by Mr Risticevic and which did not go in the sense that the court was competent to conduct the procedure under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The intensity of the amendment was to determine the individual responsibility of the acting inspector who is conducting proceedings against a legal person. There is a start and the end of the question – what happens to that inspector, in practice we have a lot of cases, and many MPs can certainly speak on the basis of personal experiences, when a acting inspector colored by some ideological, party or other fundamentally tending act in order to determine the offences, i.e. the guilt of the businessmen, the subject of control. I ask the Minister to return to Mr Risticevic's amendment and determine the individual responsibility of the acting inspector in case his findings fall again the next day before the court, regardless of which, whether infringing, whether basic or higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2126	Mr. Mikovic, on what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2127	According to Articles 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure. The fact is that you started discussing the amendment that I submitted, and then you mentioned the next amendment. In order for the speaker to return to the amendment that had been discussed before. You have not warned him in any way about this, and the fact is that until the moment until the amendment becomes an integral part of the text, the possibility of discussing all and explaining why some amendment should be accepted is clearly open. In any case, if the government's positive opinion had come in the meantime, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislator had declared that the amendment was legal, meaning in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, that until today the Committee on Finance has accepted the amendment would not have the need to discuss and spend 5-6 minutes on this, nor to report three times on the replicas, which would have been for the purpose of referring to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. So, in any case, I suggest that when we move on to the next amendment, then we can no longer go back to the previous one discussed in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2128	I certainly agree with you to move on. The debate was still under the amendment that you submitted. I have to accept every speaker who applies for the word, and you're absolutely right that we should move on and in that sense we'll go. Dragan Tomic, on what grounds? By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2129	I have to say, when it comes to this matter, I have a lot of experience, and for many years I've been operationally working on these jobs. I think that over the past 20 years, it has gone too far from what is the authority of the director of the tax administration and that they are bound by officials whose powers are to count employees, to take care of working hours, and that the gray zone around them flies as it pleases, or that tax police officers, inspectors have quite a freedom, which I would say, when it comes to this kind of work, that there is no freedom, after one coordination and agreement on everything. At some times when I started as Director of the Tax Administration, they were advisors to the Director General of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. Their importance in performing functions was raised to that level that neither ministers nor anyone could intervene when it came to the gray zone, or the transport of goods. At this point, we have commented and said that this is a similar moment in which this gray zone has risen quite well and that outside of the IRS there are a number of forms that directly damage, reduce revenues to the state, and then we are discussing deficits. I have to say that the people who work in those organs, in my opinion, are extremely honest. First, for the twenty years this transition takes, it's a service where the smallest number of people have come into a situation to be exposed and persecuted and by any other means. I think that in the last four, five years, the role of directors in tax administrations has been further reduced, that they have become directly linked to the coalition capacities at the place. It is known who was behind which firm was behind, or which political party was in the bloc. You didn't get into it. I think this scope of authority and the way to choose at this point is small. I can accept this as one intention that in the time that follows us, which is heading towards us, we are one more serious way of treating the management system, the way tax administration is organised, and especially the people who have these special powers. When the budget comes back to return the subject, but in a more subtle way, because it seems to me to be the most significant area and system. We've been assigned to do something for us by market and financial cops, tax police, the Department of Economic Crime. We formed some Ubpok. All this needs the same lead, no results. So these tax administrations need to find a more serious model of independence. I don't think the competition itself will provide that independence. I understand why these DS gentlemen, who have been waving dice all over the place like figures in chess, are all over their people. You know where you can't get in. It's a common-known fact in all tax administrations. I'm treating this moment as one attempt to move towards a more serious reform of the tax administration to come up with something that protects the integrity of employees in tax administrations, a more serious way of treating their profits. There are many things that are well done. So, in some technological sense, they may have been prepared, but they have not received the strength and energy they must have in terms of efficiency, independence and the protection of state interests in a number of laws that are before them and which are required to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2130	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 32. The government accepted the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so it finds that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 33. The government accepted the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so it finds that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax: Janko Veseinović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Marijan Risticevic, Srdjan Miković, Judita Popović, Ivan Andrić and Kenan Hederevic and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments of MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. A group of 13 MPs from the URS-Mladjan Dinkic group, written on 18 September 2012, withdrew an amendment proposing that members of 45a and 45b be added after Article 45b. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2131	The esteemed chairman, the respected minister, this member shows what the new government, or the new ruling coalition, has promised, and what it does. In order to make it clear to the MPs in the Assembly and those who are following this transfer, it is a member of the law that is changing, with the tax rate, that the basic tax rate from 18 increases to 20%. So, VAT, in the people known, is increasing from 18% to 20%. From the day this law is passed the price of the product, we could say, from a needle to a locomotive, it's going to be 2 percent higher. True, there's no food included, but food, as we know, is already expensive or is not on the shelves for the one that didn't collect. The chairman, please, I will also use the time of the parliamentary group, so that when I'm out of time, you don't have to interrupt me. So, from the principle of social justice, message or slogan – there is no tightening of the porridge, which we heard from the prime minister the other day, to distribute the burden on the rich, or to distribute the burden according to the possibilities of the citizens, and to relieve the poor, there is nothing. In these 45 days, as far as the government is concerned, it suggests and probably adopts, if the president doesn't fly to New York before that, a law that tightens the belt for citizens. Therefore, pray to God that the president stays in New York as long as possible, because by then you will be able to buy products at slightly lower prices. It's said in the arguments we hear these days that they won't collect food. I said she's already picked it up. Does this mean that poor citizens don't need soap, they don't need to wash their hands, they don't need to wash their laundry, they don't need to brush their teeth, because they're going to collect all the other products? Gentlemen, we don't live in the 12th century. Citizens are already debilitating and have difficulty making ends meet. Is this the Socially Responsible Government? Does the increase in VAT from 18% to 20% mean that this is a socially responsible government? I would have understood, indeed, it is no demagogy, that you have kept the overall budget deficit at even the same level as was foreseen in the plan of the previous government, which you were also a member of. However, you have increased the expenditures of the government, i.e. the state. What citizens will have to save by tightening their belts goes to what the government's first vice president was the other day, and what not, since I can't count all its functions, said there are a lot of rotational lights in this Serbia. That's right, there's a lot of rotational lights, but this VAT, the increase in VAT works on those rotational lights. You didn't cut the cost side as much as she could. So indeed the DS has no problem in this, nor the DS MPs to support and support those laws in this set of laws that have a certain sense and that have an adequate explanation. You haven't given us an adequate explanation here. In addition, this member of the law is the result of the partition, the result of the intention to settle everyone in this coalition, which is not small, as a result of the fact that new party directors are being appointed, that the number of officials will not be reduced. You say so yourself - we will remove the agencies, and we will not reduce the number of employees. Then what are you doing? So, instead of doing jobs that are professional, doing other jobs, maybe cleaning ambrosia, as they did in some places in Serbia, remind me of which places it was, or sitting unemployed. You're terminating the Environmental Protection Fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2132	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2133	Chairman, I really think I'm on the subject. Besides, I'm wasting my time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2134	You need to talk about your amendment to delete Article 15, as I recall.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2135	I do have an understanding, Chairman, for your delicate position. I'm really talking about my amendment. So my amendment concerns increasing the tax rate from 18% to 20%. The amendment requires that this member be deleted and that the tax rate instead of 20 remain 18%. I speak to the citizens now, not to the messengers. I'm explaining why I think that member should be deleted. Because these funds will not go for the right reasons. I'd have understood it would go for the right reasons, but I'll be done. I would have understood that these funds would go away for purposes that would benefit poor citizens. On the contrary, this amendment goes towards taking from ordinary citizens and leaving the funds for which we don't know yet, or for funds we don't even know how it's going to be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2136	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic has a word. On what grounds? By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2137	Regarding the increase in VAT rates, it was also the idea of the previous government. But I think it's good, if they hadn't realized it because those funds that would have been raised at an increased rate would have ended up and a lot of budget funds on expensive apartments, penthouses, just on rotational lights, on yachts and on all the opportunities we had to see and hear and read these days in the press. It is simply that many previous government ministers are intrudingly wealthy, but at the beginning of the government's mandate, and part of these pairs is certainly problematic. The very fact that an increase in VAT rates was inevitable clearly to you from the previous discussion simply made such a deficit, such a budget gap that could not be covered in any other way. So, it's an extortional solution and nobody's happy about it, the happy environment might be that our rate still belongs to a group of medium and lower VAT rates I mean the environment. What is more important, therefore, basic life-forms at a lower rate will not suffer a change in that rate, and this is good and is going towards the protection of the standards of citizens who are at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2138	Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2139	Now he could answer on a number of grounds. So you didn't interrupt the previous speaker when he mentioned the penthauses and explained some of the things we hoped to discuss the previous days. I thought today's debate was really constructive, and the minister is more constructive today to say. He accepted one amendment and did not spend two hours at the beginning of the debate itself, so we entered into a really correct way of working. You didn't interrupt it and you'll end this session tomorrow at 24 hours, but I'm going to speak and answer only to Mr. Ilic, and if you will, I'll only use the time of the parliamentary group, but I think you should treat this as a replica. It's good to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but... [[President: No replica, no mention]] .
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2140	You have not responded on this basis, so you can spend the time of the parliamentary group and talk about the amendment to Article 15. I'll answer what you just suggested. Vladimir Ilic was just talking about article 15, meaning the tax rate in the VAT law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2141	I'm not sure the penthauses are mentioned at the tax rate of that law, and here, take it from the parliamentary group. So I'm going to answer to Mr. Ilic, although his discussions are not really justified. So, he was now saying that funds were spent in the previous period he mentioned non-intentional spending of funds. These days various non-intentional spending was mentioned. He also mentioned the press. Here's the title of a list that doesn't matter who's in charge, and I think everyone knows, says that 800,000 dinars for billboards have been spent at the Environmental Protection Fund. I don't think there are any citizens in Serbia who won't agree that Serbia is pretty much still dirty and buried in dumps. To clear Serbia, funds are needed. It's necessary to clean up these dumps, but I think it's cheaper than cleaning dumps to do, to make preventive measures, so those dumps don't come out. Although you have spent certain means of billboards, for actions that people are called on not to throw garbage into rivers, not to throw garbage into the streets, I believe that these funds have been spent on purpose and needed more funds to be spent for these purposes. I think, and I'm going to end up with this, that every mile of Serbia should be a billboard, "Don't throw trash, man." It would be cheaper than to clean rivers, lakes, nature, so that you can't grow organic food and so much about your explanation and your demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2142	Thank you. By hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2143	The problem is that Serbia has not been cleared, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been cleared. When it comes to the newspaper title, I read this morning that it's half a million euros for a single billboard. So, once again I want to point out the fact that it's lucky that there's no increase in VAT rates during that period because that money would end up with everyone else, we'd have an even bigger budget hole and we wouldn't have room to save that budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2144	Thank you. Slavica Savelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2145	I'll just take a minute. We understood that the increase in VAT rates was actually a response to the tsunamis that went through the budget and to the uncontrollable 5 months of spending of budget money, so the 2% VAT increase was one really necessary measure. But, on the other hand, the retained VAT rate on the most basic 8% supply is actually the government's real response to the protection of the widest layer of the population. Some precise analysts, and I spoke about it yesterday, have calculated whether this combined VAT increase will cost the average Serbian family more, or increase their living costs by 0.9%. We don't think that's good, we don't think that in any way we should compromise the standard of Serbian citizens because otherwise it's very burdened and people have been suffering the burden of the crisis for a very long time, but we don't think that this tax hike has affected citizens' living standards so much. Finally, we heard that this would be one of the main revenues by the end of 2012, and in particular the figure of how much the VAT increase will affect the 2013 budget and that is why we will be against the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2146	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word after the amendment? Janko Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2147	I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, the chairman, once again, please do not have unequal criteria for MPs depending on which groups they come from. So you have now allowed Mr. Ilic, without warning, to accuse the previous government, to accuse the DS, from which I come, of cleaning the budget instead of Serbia. Is that the subject and subject of my amendment? Please don't have unequal criteria. So I'm gonna take the opportunity to answer that, and the previous government hasn't cleared the budget. You'll have to prove that and don't use the pay phone when we talk about very serious things to accuse and be the judge and the one who sues. So leave it alone. Let the judicial authorities do something, if they have any elements at all. Don't be a judge. Neither Mr Dinkic nor the Vucic judge, they are ministers in charge of certain areas, and you are not their lawyers, and your newspaper is not an official paper so that you publish judgments to people for whom no guilt has been proven.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2148	Thank you. Mr. Ilic, I believe the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. If you insist on it, we can decide in the voting day, to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2149	I insist that there be a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2150	All right. In the voting day, a vote will be cast on whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Oliver Dulic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2151	I'm reporting on this amendment, and I'm going to use a little bit of the time of the parliamentary group. What I'm trying to say is that obviously one dirty campaign continues in order for all those who have done something for this country and all those who have achieved some result to be portrayed as thieves and criminals. Obviously, not only does this congregation speaker serve, but apparently the lying media, the same media that spoke with the same truth about those who today through these media are trying to place such untruths. Mr. Ilic said that this morning, coming to the Assembly's session, he read this famous "Dnevnik" and that, behold, he found out one incredible robbery of the state budget, which is that a billboard was paid 500,000 euros, that he didn't even bother to see if it was true, and I can say that it's as true as it is that Mladjan Dinkic is the biggest thief and criminal in the country, and it's just as true that he deserves all those prison suits that... (President: Mr. Dulic, I remind you that the amendment to Article 15 is on the agenda.) So please return to that amendment. ) So the amendment to Article 15 is great and I am trying to support that amendment and to say that in the day of voting I will vote in favour of that amendment, because it essentially changes what that amendment regulates and now I am trying to explain why I think that amendment is great, so I am expanding the context, so I will eventually get to the bottom of it. In the debate we've heard over the past few days, we've been able to hear a huge number of accusations and untrues that have been issued by the government. The idea was that all those who were previously in power were accused of creating one framework in which all the money of this country must be concentrated in the hands of one man. I want to ask Mr. Ilic to tell me -- where is this 500,000-euro billboard being set up, when it was paid, from what budget funds, who paid it, and who signed it? (President: Excuse me, Mr. Dulic, what does this have to do with the agenda? Don't interrupt me, please, I'm using the time of my parliamentary group... (President: I have to interrupt you, given that I have to abide by the Rules of Procedure, which is that there must be talk about the subject of the agenda, so that I am not accused of breaking the Rules of Procedure, I warn you, please. I'm talking about the agenda right now. That's my first question to ask the MP. My second question to Mladjan Dinkic, to tell me how he calculated it, and that's what he said in the debate in principle... (President: I also remind you, Mr. Dulic, that today is not the day for asking questions to the members of the government, so if you can get back to the topic, please. I'm going back to the subject of course. Today is the day for discussion in details of the set of 23 laws, including the Fund Act. (President: Of 24 Mr. Dulic. Twenty-four, about 23, I don't want to discuss, discuss only one thing. I ask the question to Mladjan Dinkic, to make it clear to me where the recycling centres are in Subotica that he was talking about I was funding? I ask the second question, where did 80% of the budget of the Environmental Protection Fund get spent on advertising? (President: Mr. Dulic, I give you your first warning. Wait, what's the warning for, excuse me? (President: I have warned you many times in your discussion, to return to the topic, you have not. I'll read you a member of the Rules of Procedure that regulates it. Article 109. - the warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without permission of the President of the National Assembly, who speaks before he has asked and received his word, who, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. So, not to read any further, you've probably recognized yourself in that part. In that sense you have received a warning and if you wish to return to the topic. Here you go. I thank you. I'll be back on the subject when it does, I hope you'll let me talk about this topic when there's an amendment to the Environment Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2152	Thank you. Mr. Ilic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2153	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2154	Mr. Ilichu, you have no right to a replica. Please, we want to move on, I can't release your replica. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment complies with the constitutional and legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2155	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have added in Article 15, respectively, Article 23, paragraph 2, a new point of 1a, which is said to be: that food and equipment for babies is no longer able to monitor the rate of increase of 20%, but remains at 8%. So, what made us think it was necessary? The Democratic Party of Serbia is one of the few parties that has in its programme and how well-developed Serbia's demographic reconstruction programme. That is why we were really happy, when Prime Minister Dacic said in his first address here in parliament that Serbia's biggest problem was the fall of birth, and when he promised that both he and the government would want to do anything to stop the nation's extinction. Then, and this is clearly written in the exposé, he promised that the government would urgently come out with concrete measures to stop the nation's biological disappearance. I was quoting Mr. Dacic. I must remind you that before the election, a large group of interested people and associations came up with a bill on the abolition of VAT on food and baby equipment. The election campaign then said that this law cannot enter the procedure, then Parliament Speaker Mrs Deavanovic said the law cannot enter the procedure. Unfortunately, everyone would agree, but they would simply wait for some new calling, but there shouldn't be a problem about it. In the pre-election campaign, I don't know any party who has agreed to increase VAT on food and baby equipment, but actually, they will do everything to remove this very important element of child rearing, means equipment and food, simply cancel the VAT on them. Some were very loud, some parties were very loud in these promises. We weren't very loud about it, but here's the amendment. After the rebalancing proposal, it was seen that the government's proposal, and we all saw that the government's proposal was such that the baby's VAT tax was raised to 20% and the public reacted very sharply and was visibly surprised and then followed by an amendment to the government. It was quite clear that the amendment was extorted, that we actually have a story about VAT vomiting, which according to the DSS is very complicated. Why is it complicated? Indeed, at the time of an extremely bureaucratic state standing in front of the counters and buying various receipt certificates, then confirming the value of the property, because these are all the conditions for you to get your VAT refund, it's complicated and a lot of people won't get into the whole procedure but will give up on all of it. I am not sure that, as Mr Dinkic said, it helps the middle layer, simply, there is no middle layer in this country, you have enormously poor and poor and those who are visibly rich. So I'm not sure that this amendment of government can really contribute to what we're talking about. That's why we think it was more instructional, if you really want to advocate what the Prime Minister said in his exposé for increasing the birth rate, for stopping the nation's biological disappearance, you really had to accept our amendment, because it's exactly the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2156	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2157	Thank you. We felt it would not be good to abolish VAT for this purpose, for the simple reason that it should not have equal treatment for those who can pay for diapers and people who are not able to do so because of property opportunities. I think it's important to selectivity, and that's why we decided to return the money that's been spent for these purposes through a two-year-old refund process from the birth of a child. Therefore, the Government has defined that, and this is also the Assembly Committee on Finance with a special amendment, it has determined that the VAT refund is being made for the purchase of baby equipment, and for the following items – for the milk for infants, for spoons, for the crib, for the wheelchair, for the feeding chair, for the car chair and for the diapers. We believe that we have set a good level, we said that the right to refund this VAT period of two years from the birth of a child has parents, therefore, or guardian of a child, if their income is up to 80,000 dinars per month and if the total property is below 200,000 euros that they own. In the sublegal acts we intend to prescribe when this law is passed, we will not ask people to bring us a certificate of property, because that information already owns the tax administration. She'll just check when someone comes in with a cut of the fiscal bill and shows that they bought diapers or milk or spoons if they have property greater than 200,000 euros or it's lower. So that paper won't have to bring in those who want money for a refund. And we also saw here by amendment that we essentially say that that's 960,000 a year, and that's 80,000 a month. We will in the next period, which is the period of the next year, train the IRS to know exactly how many citizens in this country have received and they will not have to bring confirmation of their personal incomes, but when you come to the IRS, they themselves know how many people they have. That way, we will minimise the paperwork required for this. Essentially, a fiscal cut will be needed to show that this baby equipment has been purchased and to start only confirmation of household incomes in the first year. In the second year, we'll end it. So when we train the IRS to know for itself what the parents' incomes are. The first idea was to be a household, so we reduced it to make as many people as possible do this. The idea is to improve the tax administration's information system, among other things, to ensure that citizens are not obliged to fill out their application for annual income tax, but that the tax administration, based on the payer's income, is able to establish it on its own and only send solutions to citizens, that citizens no longer have contact with the IRS. Our idea is to reduce red tape as much as possible in the IRS and contact with the IRS and simplify the system. That'll help us with our electronics management. In any case, some of these items we have given here are forbidden by EU directives to apply a reduced rate to both diapers and to a feeding chair and to a wheelchair and to a bed and to spoons. The only milk today is at an 8% rate, it won't change. That's why we thought it was a good way to help people who have lower receptions of the refunding process. But we had to set that limit to 80,000 dinars a month. I have to say, we've had consultations on all of this with parents' associations, so we didn't get to these figures on our own. They calculated that within two years of the birth of the child what is paid on behalf of VAT for all of these items amounts to about 70,000 dinars, as much as we have given the possibility to refund in these two years – 40,000 dinars in the first, when the highest costs are, and 30,000 dinars in the second. In fact, it's a VAT refund that pays for these things and only those who really need it will do it. The children of wealthy parents and rich parents certainly won't. And I can't. We think they don't need it, they can pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2158	Thank you. He has the word Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2159	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have convinced me that your economic logic is correct. But I speak from another position. I'm speaking from the position of one who really thinks about the birthright of this country. You know how, both children of wealthy parents and children of poor parents are numbered in the number of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, I'm absolutely sure rich parents won't fit the counters and go through this bureaucratic procedure, because they don't need it. Whoever has to, he's really going to get into that procedure. I really think we need to think about the number of children in Serbia in general. We're not gonna talk about some kids being less valuable, are we? That's why the state has to think that all children are completely equal to the law. There can't be one child less valuable or more valuable. Nor could it be that one child is a Serbian citizen, and the other is not. We must take care of the number of Serbian citizens. That's my logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2160	Thank you. He has the word Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2161	I agree with your logic that all children are equally valuable, but I do not agree that a population policy will be encouraged through the VAT reduction mechanism for all Serbian citizens on baby equipment. That's the difference. So, all children are equally valuable, but those who have property, who have wealth, are sure that reducing VAT will not be a motive for having a child.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2162	Thank you. The word is Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2163	Mr. Minister, if we really are defined to help increase birth and we don't have a white plague, that we don't have poverty and devastation all over the place, I don't think this logic is really in place. You probably know very well how much paperwork it takes to get that projected VAT vomit of yours. Imagine that every parent when he goes to buy spoons collects fiscal bills and then brings them to refund, so that he's standing in ranks, writing demands, paying taxes, and sometimes getting a refund of 500 dinars, 1,000 dinars, or how much already? I'd like to hear it, you've probably been doing some analysis, how much income it's getting from VAT on this equipment, on food and on the like, how much money the state is going to collect on that basis. Is it possible that the state is going to fail if it doesn't, I don't think it's going to be a number that can be comparable maybe to 200-300 million a year to a billion, to the top of its head, is it possible that we can't have the same treatment for both children and each other? Those who are poor will have to collect fiscal accounts from every store and come to the counters to hand it over, to refund that money. I don't think that's right. If we are truly essentially defined to help the birth of the first child, the second child, the third, the fourth, how does it go, I don't know, 60,000, 80,000, 100,000, and we're going to say, they're right, and they don't? If we really want to help Natalie, I think that logic has to be applied, that we're gonna help all the kids, that we're gonna stimulate maybe more, that we're gonna turn the story around to the mothers that are supposed to be born, that they have some income on that basis, not to share in children who are from poor or wealthy families. There are ways for rich families to tax because they have big incomes in a different way. Here, let's say, in the Law on Income Tax, that we collect this missing money and treat all children equally. I think the procedure is too complicated and we're not going to do anything like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2164	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2165	Parents' income of up to 80,000 dinars means that we took as a basis about two average salaries today in Serbia and even a little more. This amount will be indexed every year, so that the real value will be maintained. The money that will be allocated in the name of a refund for the purchase of baby equipment next year will be around 2 billion dinars. If we take into account that the right to refund is not only for those who are born in the following year, but for all who at the time of entry into force of the law have children up to two years old, so that amount is not as small as you can see, but I think it is justified that parents whose incomes are below 80,000 dinars receive money for VAT refund on baby equipment. We believe that this amount is relatively adequately measured according to our current financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2166	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2167	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Minister, I find the decision to recover VAT funds on baby equipment important for two reasons. First, because the measure from which it will benefit is...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2168	Mrs. Novkovic, let me just say it's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2169	I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2170	It's not on the agenda. So the amendment is on Article 15. We haven't gotten to vomiting yet. If you want to talk about an amendment to article 15, please, but it's not about vomiting VAT. Mr. Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2171	I'd like a few things. I won't be long from the MP's time. Our parliamentary group will fully support the amendment of DSS and Mrs. Vojić Markovic for the reason we think that and when this decision on VAT return came to the government, it came later than the law itself, we found it rather complicated and regardless of the clarification given by Minister Dinkic now, it is simply a much closer solution in which VAT is completely abolished. I won't talk about those big words, because otherwise I don't believe in them, it's -- Natalie, keeping the nation, etc. I think the situation and the life of the people in this country is already difficult enough for anyone who has a child to suffer enough to have this country around his neck further. Simple, explanations that rich people don't have to pay for it, it's like you've introduced double rates to buy bread. Rich people eat bread and use basic life supplies, so they pay the same tax as the poor. So, some things need to be cut. I got the impression, especially in the election campaign, that everyone was ready for such a step, such as removing VAT on baby equipment and I couldn't imagine that the state would use you, and that such a move would use to further complicate the lives of parents, further complicate the lives of people, representatives of the same state that are now to collect some photocopies of accounts, to deal with the assessment of someone's property and to decide what it is or what it isn't. The issue I agree with is the question to what extent this more complicated procedure will lead to some total budget figures deviating. I'm sure he won't. As for the argument that the procedure will be simplified in a year, let's now cancel the VAT, so in a year when the procedure is simplified, then return under the conditions that we have. I think that view of the world is diametrically opposite. As far as we're concerned, we're trying to speak for the citizens and say that everything needs to be as simple as possible, and the state keeps coming with some new procedures and some new rules. I think it's a very wrong way, and here we're talking about a definitely so small item on the total numbers and the total crisis in our budget, that I'm sure the state will have no problem in giving up that little piece that's proposed by this proposal of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2172	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2173	It was probably a lapus, the DSS didn't propose to lift the VAT on baby equipment, but was reduced to a reduced rate, as it says in this amendment. Given that your party, as well as my political group and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wants to continue the EU approach, I want to tell you that the EU directive is related to this area so that these items cannot be paid a reduced rate. The only exception is a car chair. This is the only item on which they give the possibility to lower the rate and to lower the rate in the legislation of the Member States, or those joining the rate. So it's not possible for diapers or other equipment, and I'm guessing you're not in favor of breaking the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we have concluded, because if we adopt this amendment, we would do so. On the other hand, the party proposed by this amendment does not have such a respect for the agreement, so we expected such a proposal, however, your party should stick to our EU accession agreement in principle, which prohibits it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2174	Thank you. Ivan Andric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2175	Replica, I'll be brief since we have no intention of stopping you from adopting these laws tonight. You know what, I find it absolutely fascinating how the government always remembers the EU when it's at the expense of the citizens, and never when there's anything else that needs to be done. It says in that agreement, Mr. Dinkic, a lot more. How did you decide to remove from this agreement and from those directives only those that go directly to the harm of people? I guarantee you on behalf of the LDP, accept this amendment and believe me, I am prepared to guarantee whatever you want that will not slow Serbia's path to the EU and accept our full responsibility if something like this happens and we agree to vote with you for your proposal and correct that injustice if it comes to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2176	Thank you. The word is Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2177	In the form of a discussion on this amendment, I will ask a question for Mr Dinkic, Minister of Finance – which is undeniable, I don't think there should be any confusion about it. The government, the assembly majority, as well as the amendment's promoters, clearly see the link between Serbia's need to address the problem of a galloping depopulation, to take adequate care of generation and future, and to bring it into some kind of relationship with state measures. It's just that it's not a dispute here and it can't be the subject of mutual accusation. What is a fact, which is a little bit of an easy joke in the debate, is that children are not only the future of Serbia, but that children and certainly the market are for a very lucrative activity such as importing and selling baby equipment. The reduction of VAT may be a measure of support to the birth, if it really necessarily leads to a drop in the price of baby equipment, but it is quite controversial whether such a measure really benefits parents and citizens, or importers and sellers of baby equipment. I therefore ask Minister Dinkic to explain to us whether the reduction of VAT can be considered a necessary cause of a future drop in prices in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2178	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2179	Thank you, Mr. Milenich. This was just one of the key reasons why we didn't want to go with VAT cuts, for example. for diapers, because we are convinced that the benefit of the possible reduction of VAT from 20% to 8% for diapers, for example, would not have parents, but traders and importers. A hundred percent, this practice has already shown in other cases, they would pass it on to their larger margins. So no parents would benefit from this. By returning the money directly to the paid VAT, to those whose income is, to parents who have up to 80,000 dinars, we are sure that we pay back that money to those who need it most, without staying in the pockets of traders or not getting rid of this obligation by someone who is otherwise willing to pay for it and who doesn't have a problem. So to people who don't have enough money, parents whose incomes are up to 80,000 dinars, we return the money directly to them, with a procedure that will be as simple as possible. A cut from a fiscal account and a confirmation of the parents' incomes, until we establish a system so we don't even have to look for this other one. I repeat once again, we will not ask for confirmation of the property, because the tax administration knows the property of any one who turns around.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2180	Thank you. Next came Milan Lapcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2181	Mr. Milenic, we are not fighting here, but we are constructively discussing how to help those who want to have children, not how to help them. I'm sure if we can get them to collect fiscal accounts and push themselves around the counters, we won't help them. As I am sure that calling for measures, which they write in EU directives, is indeed more than hypocritical in this area. It is also likely in these EU directives that mothers should be stimulated, that they have paid 100% of pregnancy or maternity leave, so it is not applied to us. They probably have other stimulation measures for the second, third, fourth child, so that doesn't apply to us either. Let's just, if we want to be controversial about it, apply everything that's written or not applied. I think calling someone to write somewhere and that someone needs to tell us what we need to do is really the bottom. If we are not aware of what we need and how to help our parents move into that courageous decision to expand the delivery, then no one can help us. If we've come this far because of what it says in some directives, we need to cut the VAT or we don't need to cut it, then I think this debate is groundless. I don't think it's a good message that we're not ready to give up some, you said yourself, two billion dinars in two years. That means that on an annual level, it's going to be much less. If the State cannot impose other duties, e.g. to alcohol, to cigarettes or to something else that is a luxury or progressive taxation of those who have a high income, to replace those two billion or billions of dinars, then I really think it's pointless to talk about anything here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2182	Thank you. The following has been reported by Parliament member Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2183	Thank you. I hope honestly after these discussions and the finance minister, and if that is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that babies did not interfere on our path to the EU. Otherwise, we should all be seriously concerned if it's our only problem. I've seen that there are really many amendments proposed to this law on the same subject. In order for the chairman not to interrupt me, we will say - this time we will support the amendment of the MP Milice Vojić Markovic, or the DSS parliamentary group. Should it be explained at all that all the political parties in this election game, thanks to which we are here in parliament, promised not to reduce the VAT rate to baby equipment, but that we will completely put an end to it. I don't know any parliamentary group or party that hasn't said it, speaking to their voters. However, the surprise came when we received this bill, especially as Prime Minister Ivica Dacic himself promised in his exposé before the presidential election, that the government would seriously deal with the fall of birth in our country. Of course, the pressure of the public when the bill was passed was great. I guess the government then followed the intervention, very unfortunate, of this increase in VAT on baby equipment, by introducing endless bureaucratic procedures. It's one thing the finance minister says. Life is completely different. The one who has ever faced bureaucratic procedures in his life is aware that it doesn't look as easy and as condescending as we've heard here, but everyone will ask you for every single piece of paper listed in the law that you have to contribute if you want to get your VAT back. I think the government should, I don't know if it can still be done by procedure, but I think it can either withdraw or amend this proposal, because this issue of birth is not just a matter of finance, as it is explained here, but I think that abolishing VAT is actually a question of our struggle for birth. It is frightening that Serbia has fewer than 30,000 people annually. That's one number, one place. We lose one municipality annually, and we should do everything, regardless of what EU directives or our financial circumstances are to save on other things, and babies are babies, we should not make any difference whether some parents are making a little more money in this Serbia, because I don't believe there are some enormously wealthy people, or they're extremely poor. I think the problem is with each other, and we need every step of the way to stimulate people to have children.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2184	Thank you. Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2185	Once again, I will give an explanation as to why we are strongly against this amendment, given that there are different interpretations. I'm not answering this amendment again. The government of the Republic of Serbia is opposed to reducing VAT on baby equipment, rather than allowing the return of parents whose incomes are up to 80,000 dinars, for the reason that anyone who votes for this amendment, which is of course the right of MPs, is not voting to help parents, but to vote for filling the pockets of traders and importers. The reduction in VAT for imports of baby equipment, diapers, beds will only contribute in practice to the improvement of the standards of those involved in this activity. If someone lobbys for them, it's his right, but your parents won't help. Parents are being helped through this VAT vomit. That's why parents' associations who have been dealing with this for years have accepted and suggested what the government has now given to the Assembly. So this isn't our proposal. This is a proposal from the Parents' Association. They've been dealing with this matter for years, and they realized that by just lowering the rate, they would increase the margins of traders. They'd get profits, those who sell diapers, not parents who buy them. If that's your goal, you vote for that amendment. We're against it. We think that those who don't have enough money should be helped by paying them back for this purpose. Also, there are other mechanisms in social protection that help nationality. It's a parental supplement for the birth of the first child, for the birth of a second and third child. And for that now, significant funds are being allocated. The system was established during the government from 2000 to 2003. It's well-placed. In the future, it can be further promoted and encouraged through further direct donations to families who are poor so that they can provide childhood for their children. But definitely, given that there is no mechanism for limiting trade margins, this mechanism that the previous government has introduced is wrong, because trade margins in no country in the world can be limited by decrees. The reduction of VAT is a great opportunity for traders to earn and therefore I ask you not to vote in favour of this amendment, but to accept what the parents' associations have proposed, the Assembly Committee on Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have accepted, which is the return of VAT on baby equipment for all those parents whose incomes are below 80,000 dinars. I'm sorry I made it too long, but I'm not gonna answer on this one anymore. I don't think you should go to demagogy on the question of children. Demagogy is that reducing VAT will help parents. No, it'll only help the merchants.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2186	Thank you. Ivan Andric, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2187	Member of the 106th Infringement of the Dignity of the Assembly. Chairman, I'm speaking to you. So far, no example has been recorded, except in the case of Kosovo, when large patriots have used any opposition to Kosovo's destructive policy to attack those who oppose it as traitors. You, if you have gone peacefully against what Minister Dinkic told the MPs, your colleagues, that whoever votes for this amendment, that he does not vote for babies, but votes for baby equipment traders, that is really rude. Please don't miss things like that. What are we going to bring this discussion to? Are we going to say that we're lobbyists selling diapers? I've never met one. I don't even know who's selling diapers. I don't care who's selling diapers. If there are demagogue reasons, these are the reasons the government wants to fool people that it's supposed to be possible to pay back the money for baby equipment, and it won't be possible. They'll have to chop up fiscal accounts, go to the IRS once a month, once a father, once a mother. The mother won't be able to give that confirmation for the first three months, she won't be able to get confirmation. All that is is that the state would, like, give some perks they wouldn't give in the end. It's just that some procedure will be shortened in a year. When someone points out that, the government says that whoever is saying this is the enemy of the Serb people and is fighting not for babies, but for the evil dealers who bring equipment. You know what, if there are criminals among them, then arrest them. What does that have to do with us? The claim that a reduction in VAT from 20% to 8% will not reduce the price is simply not founded in any fact, but based on some estimates that ministry people have. You know what, I don't really agree with what you're doing right now... (President: Time. But don't spread it to other things because that's what you're just introducing a dictatorship, and I'm sure at this point, at least it's not your intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2188	I ask all MPs and members of the Government to conduct this discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to allow us to continue our work. The word is Milica Vojić - Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2189	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, neither the lobbyist of the Pampers nor the lobbyist Johnson, nor any other lobbyist, possibly, possibly, perhaps, lobbyist of a sack salesman, because you'll need sacks to collect fiscal accounts. A joke aside, I'm nobody's lobbyist. I'm not even a demagogue. I'm counting on simple and simple logic. I think the state is a very serious creation and that it can really stand in the way of merchants who march to heaven and I don't advocate the story of merchants, but I'm advocating the story of Natalie. Because you know how, you yourself, Mr. Minister, and my colleague Ivan Andric clearly confirmed once again, the DSS is not responsible for EU directives, but is the answer to the citizens of Serbia and that is what I advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2190	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2191	Thank you. So, as you can see, it's not just a Kosovo topic that has a lot of demagogy. But unfortunately, it's a big problem and natality. When we talk about this, we will often hear political statements, and I think we have enough respected experts in this area, and I fear that in this decision offered by the Government, and even those offered by fellow MPs, not consulted demographers, are not consulted experts. I will remind you, the government has an obligation to implement a strategy to encourage birth in Serbia. One of the objectives of this strategy is to reduce the economic cost of parenting. What measures will the government do, that's something we need to discuss. The minister apparently consulted with the right of tax experts when he did not decide to reduce VAT on this type of equipment and baby food, but did not consult demographics. I understand the arguments that reducing VAT would, above all, introduce a disorder of the entire tax system, open up great opportunities for abuses, etc., but I don't think it's a good solution to encourage birth, i.e. a reduction in the economic price of parenting, even through VAT vomiting. You see, what kind of goods and services would a VAT refund take place on? Food, spoons, diapers, car seats. What do we do with those parents who don't feed their babies and children under two years of age to industrial products or don't drive cars? Therefore, I will remind all of us that there is one serious measure that has shown its effectiveness, defined in the Financial Support Act to families with children, and that is a parental supplement. At the annual level, five billion is allocated to this measure. Why did the government not take another step to help parents with small children, which is to increase the amount of parental allowance? Then even those families who may be struggling to provide milk and bread will benefit from this support of giving birth. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we know exactly what the circle of those families is. I can tell you that this measure is so defined, that the parental supplement is not only given the poorest, the census is high up. I can't get the grandkids of Karic, but everyone else can get this support. I propose to the government that it return with this proposal, to consult not only tax experts but also demographics and to define, for example, to calculate, as far as possible, if it plans two-three billion for VAT returns, but five billion are allocated, i.e. five billion for the parental supplement, and eight billion for us to make one tried-out more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2192	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2193	I must say that we have offered this measure to parents' associations, and before that we have consulted Gordana Matkovic who made this system in the previous period and that was also our proposal, a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and Industry. Parents' associations insisted on going back to VAT anyway, as they said they had agreed with the previous government. They thought the measure was more appropriate. They feared, according to them, a relatively low censorship for parents who would enter into that measure, although we persuaded them that it would be better to do so through increasing the parental supplement, as you suggest. However, given that in our work we do not want to make decisions and that we would not be accused of being made by the government just by heart of talking to people in advance. Parents' associations were looking for what the government suggested. These associations are from all over Serbia and there are completely different people. This does not mean that in the next period we will not discuss with them the possibility of improving and increasing the parental supplement. I'm sure that's the measure, and you're right, which will boost the birth rate. But I think that we should do both, that we also have a VAT refund for families that have below 80,000 dinars, and that we can see through social policy measures the possibility of increasing the parental allowance in the next period, which is the subject of other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2194	The following came from MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2195	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to what my colleagues claim. First, I must also point out that even those involved in importing and selling and further distribution of equipment and food for babies suffer certain economic consequences. Make sure they don't give up the margins, they've got a little traffic anyway. This law, i.e. the addition of the Value Added Tax Act, agrees, is not complete and is not even close enough to increase ethnicity in Serbia. I think we're after the Family Law with the children of certain means, that all previous governments have stopped at that. It's a law written, I think, six or seven years ago. And there was nothing left to do. Meanwhile, the state has entered a terrible financial crisis. We need to be aware that we can only help as much as we have. I agree this isn't enough, but right now it's the only real thing. We can discuss this, but at least for the first two years when the biggest costs around the kids were the state tried to do something. I can say that even the government's proposal at first was much stricter. Only families with less than 80,000 dinars of household income were required to do so. They went out to meet the Finance Committee, and that's where they were proposed to be just parents, that they were the only ones who came into the collection. If you think carefully, it is a little more than receiving the average of the Republic of Serbia. The majority of citizens will enjoy this privilege. The largest number of most endangered citizens will enjoy this privilege. Those who have certain means, more than this, believe that they don't need it so far, they just don't need it. I am absolutely certain when the situation in our public finances is arranged, that surely other steps, no matter what government is concerned, will come far more radically and far with greater benefits for each newborn child. Today, at this point, it's the only option.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2196	Thank you. The following has been reported by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2197	I'd also like to make a small contribution to this debate. I believe, of course, that all children should receive maximum support from the state. It would be really wonderful if the state could help all the children in Serbia. They are one of the most endangered categories of poverty in our country. It would be nice if we could give our children a healthy snack in schools, like some rich countries do. But unfortunately, we can't do it, and we can't do it at this point in particular. When situations are this difficult, we must remember that all children are children, but that all children are not equally poor and are not equally threatened and that is simply a fact. In such situations, measures must be sought to target those and to help those who have the most difficulty. When it comes to birth, all of us dear colleagues and colleagues know that this is a small aspect of what is called depopulation and the fall of birth and that it is certainly not a key factor. Otherwise, the whole of Europe wouldn't have had a major decline in birth. Well-developed societies are characterized by the fall of birth. Some undeveloped or extremely poor societies have an enormous birth rate. So things aren't that simple and economic measures aren't the only measures in this area. I advocate that not everyone can be treated the same way, and I absolutely advocate that there must be some difference in this situation. Indeed, if some carts cost, as we had the opportunity to hear, 1,000 euros each, and they cost 100, it probably doesn't have to return the VAT to parents in the same way. I believe, and I fully agree with my co-worker, Lucic, who was a very good secretary of state, I must say, at the Ministry of Social Policy and who worked very well with the MPs in this area, in order for the parental supplement to be a much more effective and better measure. By saying that, now it's not a topic, the parental supplement can receive a fourth, fifth, and sixth and eighth children, and not the way it's been so far, but these are the same restrictions that have been imposed on our options. The collection of fiscal accounts, I will briefly say, I also use the time of the parliamentary group, if you allow me, is that it will be a bit more complicated, but I remind you that many of our citizens collect those bonuses, the talent in the markets, so I don't think it might be so hard to collect all the fiscal bills you've given as a cost for baby equipment or baby food and keep them in one place and once a month collect that VAT refund and once in a year take out one receipt certificate. I don't think it's going to be so complicated that it would make life a lot harder for those parents who would be entitled to it. So I think this situation is still the best solution possible, and I will definitely support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2198	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Predrag Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2199	Thank you. I just want to ask about this amendment, and above all this discussion, all the MPs, but also the representatives of the government present, but also those who are not here, to take good care of everything we've heard here today. This is such an important topic that it's not a question, and that's how I realized, the discussions and the motions of the amendment and the views of the government, the question of imposing one solution, but of trying to say that, not only about this law and this amendment, we all have to look together for a way to help not babies, of course babies don't decide, babies don't participate in traffic, but parents do. Mrs. Lucic just said that. It is crucial how to improve the economic situation. It's our obligation to parenting and parenting strategies. Of course, it is perfectly understandable to me that there are fears in poverty that some measure will be misused. Of course, we can inform those who will eventually vote for one amendment or for one law. Just to indicate that there is one kind of fear, like the obligation of all of us to make legal decisions, when we speak and when we bring them, we make sure that it looks real. (President: Mr. Markovic, please return to the topic. ) I also know well how much it costs to buy what part of the equipment, which is being exchanged, which is simply necessary for each parent to obtain independently of his or her condition. In this regard, there is no need for us to consider this topic averted because it has now appeared, but we have a commitment to do exactly in the budget, a few MPs have been distracted, not through VAT, but through a combination of measures, we can find a way to help parents create better economic conditions where they do not exist, that with less fear they enter parenting, or at least remove economic barriers. The Assembly can't do that. Thank you, everyone who will take care of it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2200	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ivan Karic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2201	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we, as the Greens of Serbia, will support this amendment. Only two questions – all the time in all these discussions you are asking us to believe your word, and when it comes to ecology and when it comes to the environment that you will fix it and arrange it. We will support the amendment. I remind you, a colleague before Mr. Markovic reminded me of that, we suggested introducing a special tax and excise tax on the transmast and on the jankifud. I agree it's not the time, but I'm saying that right now we're going to introduce a healthy snack, so does that mean that by this principle, we're going to be in line to give one kid lunch and tell the other -- your parents are rich, you can't get lunch, you can get your mom and dad to buy you lunch. The intensity of your proposal is, I think, so. I think a healthy snack on the first day is going to bring us a better economic situation, because we're going to hire organic food producers, because we're going to hire healthy food bakers and we're going to have healthy generations. This is how we constantly devastate the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2202	Thank you. Minister Dinkici has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2203	If I knew this amendment would help parents and I would vote for him first, I wouldn't have to wait for that amendment. Since I'm convinced it only helps traders, that's why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2204	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment is to supplement the Value Added Tax Act where farmers are prescribed to return 8% of the value added tax instead of 5%, but it is written so that they will return only to those who receive the money. Now there's one problem, registered agricultural holdings uninterruptedly open accounts in banks. While unregistered agricultural holdings, they have a problem in trade in agricultural products by applying tax solutions to the Tax Administration, from which year, therefore, they have a problem because they hardly open an account in banks. So, if they don't open the account, some farmers will have trouble getting back 8%, or they won't be able to get that right no matter what the farmers are, just because the banks are going to have a hard time opening that account. In a situation where Serbia, where we will soon have no VAT on what to put it on, I am really sorry that my colleagues did not notice in the VAT structure that VAT collection is about one-third of our domestic goods, and two-thirds of our VAT is on import goods. Agricultural products were, of course, taxed at an 8% rate, and the minister here mentioned the abuses that so far existed, that farmers who charged their goods in cash had not received a 5% refund, as far as it was, had already been obtained by traders, but where they were getting fears during tax control and, in case, they say they were not trading at all. So, the government's proposal is good, but what I'm asking is to specify that banks have an obligation to open up to farmers an account of the income solution to the cadastrian income. That's what I wanted with this amendment. If that is not possible, let the government say, I will withdraw the amendment, of course, in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2206	Thank you. Minister Dinkic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2207	We made this change to the law exclusively to help farmers, because in practice so far, as far as this VAT law applies, for some seven years, VAT compensation essentially did not end up on the crop of farmers, but they again benefited from those who bought from them products, because they had no obligation to pay them on account, but were able to pay them in cash. When that obligation did not exist, it was not possible to control whether they were carrying out 5% while there was vomiting. In practice, many farmers told me -- we don't have any of it, that money is kept by the ones we sold the goods to. Just to enable warlords, cattlemen, all those who are not in the VAT system, that when they sell goods to someone who is in the VAT system, which is the buyer, the merchant or those who are in that system, that they must return it to him now more, 8%, but to the account, and all registered agricultural producers must have an account to be the beneficiaries of subsidies. And so on so-called. non-commercial households, even if they ever sell anything, they also have to have an account. That was our reason for insisting on the bill. When it's in cash, we have no way of controlling whether the money's coming back to the farmers or ending up with that redeemer. That's the only reason we insist on the bill, just to help end this money directly with those who produced agricultural products.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2208	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2209	None of what you said is questionable. The only question is that it is difficult for farmers who are not in the Register of Agricultural Lands to open accounts, so it will be difficult to exercise those rights. My amendment just makes it clear that banks are obliged to open an account to them on a catastrian income solution, because otherwise, if they don't open the account, they'll lose that right. So, I didn't slow down any of that. If it's not possible, I'll pull it, so make it like an idea for another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2210	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2211	I guess farmers like all other citizens can open a current account, a savings account, or whatever account, because it doesn't have to be a registered agricultural household, we've given it a chance for anyone to open an account in a bank. I don't know if anyone can open a current account. Therefore, we did not prescribe that this VAT compensation is exclusively paid to the account of the Registered Agricultural Land, but to an account involving an account registered, current account, savings account, whatever account, which certainly everyone can open as a citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2212	Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2213	The problem is that banks avoid opening an account just like that. They want him to bring a copy of the register that is registered, that his ownership is registered, and there are others who are not registered and who are returned on the basis of a catastrian income solution. If they are not allowed to open an account in banks, they will lose that 8% right. I'm not asking for anything else, just to allow them to get what they get registered. Too many times already, those who have not been registered have been discriminated against, especially pensioners who are still working. Then we punish age, etc., no matter what they do in production. So in a way, this law only in a certain way obliges banks to open up accounts to them based on solutions to the cadastrian base, and nothing more. If it's impossible, I'll pull it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2214	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2215	Thank you for pointing out this. We will then, in any case, when the law comes into force, send instructions to all banks and order them to open current accounts to farmers as citizens, so that they can use this right. Thank you for pointing out there was a problem, because I didn't know. There's no need to change that in law, the law clearly defines the opening of an account, the current, the savings, any one. In the instructions we send to the banks, we'll make them mandatory, in accordance with what you're proposing, that they have to open up to everyone. If there's a problem in practice, you'll call. There's no need for it to be regulated by law, we can do that with instructions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2216	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, did you want anything else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2217	In that case, I said I was withdrawing the amendment and I'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2218	Thank you. The word is Joseph Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2219	I wanted to contribute a little bit to this debate, since by July 16, I spent a total of 21 years as a director of the Association in Sainta, each day facing these problems. A fellow Risticevic most likely misreads this part of the current account. There are two types of accounts, there's an account for manufacturers that register in the VAT system, that is, as owners, and there's a simple current account that can easily open in any bank. Therefore, this rate of VAT increase, i.e. VAT vomiting from 5 to 8%, is one of the best treated measures. In the last three or four days, I've only been getting text messages from Vojvodina to congratulate us on this. I think only in interpretation is the problem and that the measure is correct, special intervention should not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2220	The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2221	I proposed the proposed amendment to extend the circle of VAT debtors who could carry out tax obligations on the payment of claims, not on invoices. In the view of the Government, it is proposed not to accept this amendment that I have proposed extending the circle of taxpayers, citing as a reason a certain directive of the Council of Europe that there is a possibility that the application of the VAT accounting system may be approved in a specific category of taxpayers, and not all taxpayers. If the proposed amendment is accepted, it is not about all taxpayers, it remains to be paid immediately after the invoices are made by all those who, for example, do so. In the previous 12 months, tax returns for VAT have not been lodged within the prescribed time limit. Then, as one of the conditions that VAT payments could be sought on the collected claim, the conditions for calculating VAT per billing system have not ceased in the previous 12 months. So there are certain conditions. Probably by adopting the amendment, that circle of taxpayers would go from 86% to a much higher percentage, and it wouldn't be 100% of taxpayers. At this point, I point out exactly to be sure whether something was transmitted, or whether it was said on the Finance Committee, and Mr. Minister himself provided information that the traffic of up to 50 million dinars currently has 86% of the taxpayers in Serbia. What's the exception, and what's the rule? If the exception could be 86, could the exception be 95%? If other reasons had been presented as reasons for the rejection of the amendments, in terms of better budgeting or inability of the budget to respond to certain commitments, so we will not, I would understand that, but only with this argument would I not agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2222	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have submitted an amendment proposing that Article 45 be added after Article 45. 45a and 45b. Proposer Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2223	Exactly, the speed of proposing 28 of which we received most of the bill, half the 12 of them must have arrived on the 11th and the others arrived on September 14th, which is why all of us together couldn't read the laws in detail and see what needs to be fixed. The committees also had short deadlines to see what needs to be fixed, and the fact is that many of these things do not respect the acts that are binding on all legislators. In particular, this amendment has become an integral part of the text of the draft law, and this amendment treats non-matter in the draft law amending and supplementing the basic law. So we went beyond the bill as soon as we added to Articles 45 and 45b. That is why I am here at the plenary in front of the Presidential Assembly pointing out that we have broken through one practice and made a precedent, which is now asking the question – are we going to apply in other things when we get a proposal to amend and supplement a law, are we going to go to the practical novelty of the whole basic law? That's where I'm telling you we made the precedent. There are others in cases where we have made a precedent, because at the same time, counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic, a useful amendment, was tabled, he was rejected because he went beyond the scope of the amendment and supplement law. So, don't make different criteria? The second thing, by the very proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, is a novelty of 50 basic members, so this bill itself has 50 members. The basic text of the law has 68 with some previous-term innovations, and I read to you a member of the 47th single methodological rules for the making of regulations, which is a binding act for each legislator of the law for both the Government and the National Assembly, that if more than half of the members of the basic regulation are amended, or complemented, new rules should be adopted. If we had respected this, we would have had a new bill, and we could absolutely do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, beyond the scope of the law and not violate the applicable acts. So in that sense, I appeal, no matter what 28 laws have passed now in the emergency procedure, don't let that happen to us, because that's why we make mistakes and we show that we're not professionals enough to make the law. The picture of all that comes out of the National Assembly is a picture of all of us MPs, it's a picture of the state, and it's because whether an amendment is useful or not, let's make it possible for a regular procedure and let's fix it right. If we reject fellow counterpart Nedja Jovanovic's amendment, then in an adequate situation we should treat all other amendments. That is why I call you to professionalism and call on you to respect the Law on the National Assembly, and the Rules of Procedure, together with the common procedure of the National Assembly, and the uniform methodological rules for the making of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2224	Thank you. Nejko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2225	Thank you, Madam Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear colleague Srdjana Mikovic, above all I wish, since I have been mentioned as my amendment to point out that I am not in any way in this amendment to challenge the precedent. Or, through the possibility of legal means of correcting certain parts of the law, introduce illegality. What exactly is this about? In any case, I will point out that when I speak after the point when it is on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, now I just want to say that the reasons why I felt that this amendment should be affirmed and even adopted are the rationality and celery reasons which allow the elimination of a number of harmful consequences for the application of the provisions of the Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2226	Mr. Jovanovic, I'd like to leave it for discussion when it comes to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2227	I just wanted to explain and to rely on the presentation of my colleague, Mikovic, and I accept that, indeed, the only correct, technical correct amendments can be in the legal procedure and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2228	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2229	In no way did I want to put an end to Mr Jovanovic's actions, so I just said that each of us MPs is in a position to fix the laws that come into the National Assembly if we have enough time and opportunity to read them all in time to do something. We have come to the situation that just for the shortest time, many of the amendments that have been submitted have not arrived in time because there has been a rejection of such amendments and cannot be useful amendments for procedural reasons to be considered here on the tide. That's exactly why I've been calling for everyone to get time so that every law can be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2230	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about these amendments? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 50 amendments. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2231	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we will support this legislative proposal on raising that threshold for entering the VAT system and we have had no dilemma about it and I think we understand each other on the Finance Committee. Our amendment refers only to the beginning of the application of this provision to change the threshold of entry into the VAT system. We actually suggested that it begin already on 1 October 2012, without waiting on 1 January 2013. Given that there is a possibility within this time-limit that one of the taxpayers, i.e. small entrepreneurs, would make such traffic and such a job to enter the VAT system under current conditions without simply having that traffic qualified to enter the VAT system since 1 January 2013. That's almost twice the threshold of eight million compared to the three million that have been in force so far. It is clear to us that from the government's statement of opinion on this amendment, tax officials, i.e. the tax administration and bureaucracy in some preparation problem, have been applying this law since 1 October 2012. So it takes them three full months to prepare taxpayers and themselves to apply this new threshold of entering the VAT system. I think it's an excessive amount of consideration, one ailing to that tax administration, given that taxpayers are willing to always, as far as their benefits are concerned, be up-to-date and accept these changes. However, you see, these tax administrators will have to prepare some members and apply them to 15, 25, 26 and 45 under the proposal of this law and have time for that, and for this application something is not ready to work. I would especially point to the fact that the law arrived in the procedure on September 1st, the earliest date of September 25th, so that if the law is published in the Official Messenger, it will enter into force after October 1st. In fact, you will apply some of the provisions of this law as early as October 1st, and this amendment we have proposed will not be accepted because, simply, the taxpayers do not have time to prepare in this way. We did not want to obstruct this law and we really support the growth of that threshold for entering the VAT system, but there must be some order and there must be some consolidation and the work of this Parliament and, in fact, the consolidation of all those working in those state institutions would be very desirable. It's just that we don't have time. Tax incentives are both important and if we are really counting on making serious reforms in the tax system, serious reforms in the economy and in the economy, then we must take into account first and foremost the interests of citizens, i.e. those small entrepreneurs, who should be the backbone of economic growth. Because obviously big systems and public enterprises aren't ready for that. Therefore, we remain with this amendment and it would be good to consider whether you will be ready on 1 January 2013 to facilitate their work and tax pay for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Because, you will allow, we must trust that you will facilitate this procedure of exiting the VAT system, as you have announced on the Finance Committee, but you should also have heard of this need not to wait a day and somehow things are uraging, updating and speeding up, as far as the interests of taxpayers are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2232	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2233	We have carefully considered the purpose of your amendment, and I really assure you that the proposed solutions in the law are adequate. We've changed in the new law the possibility of erasing the VAT system for those who want it voluntarily. In the current law, small entrepreneurs could only be deleted from January 1st to 15th, and they could no longer do so during the year. Under the new law, they can be erased whenever they want. So we've moved the threshold for mandatory entry into the VAT system from the current four to eight million dinars, but we've given everyone else who's below eight million can, if they want to, be in the VAT system. It is expected that everyone involved in manufacturing activities will go voluntarily into the VAT system, even if they have a lower turnover of eight million dinars, and if they change their mind during the year, they can be deleted whenever they want. So no more of that administrative restriction that was in the old law that they could only do it in the first 15 days of the new year. On the other hand, those who deal with services will likely opt for a flat tax, because they do not have a tax deduction. In this regard, we think that these deadlines are adequate, and in the meantime, we adopted an amendment on the Committee on Finance, which the government has adopted, that the law will enter into force on the first day after the publication, which means before 1 October. All VAT rates will apply from 1 October. But the possibility of VAT being returned only when the goods are charged, as of January 1st, also some refactions from January 1st, as it is technically necessary to prepare the Tax Administration. We looked very well at your amendment and I assure you that we will not create a problem for small entrepreneurs with the deadlines that we provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2234	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, submitted an amendment to Article 50. Proposer Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MP Olgica Batic to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? He's got Mrs. Judita Popovic's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2235	Thank you. Madam Chairman, thank you for giving me your word. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you to allow me to use this time of my parliamentary group to highlight something missing from this law. In particular, it is the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, and in fact there is no amendment of the Member of this 40th Law. We discussed this on the Finance Committee, and I think we agreed on the principle that, if it is in some of the best interests of the entrepreneurs, it should have been done to change that member, which is actually about flat-rate taxation, i.e. raising the cost tax threshold from the current three million to eight million dinars. Given that the three million threshold was established in 2006, when the euro was 85, 86 dinars, after six years it was really time to make this kind of change of taxation thresholds as it was done in this previous law that we discussed. It is that these amendments proposed by the bill are good and necessary. However, there is something missing that is of great importance for the work of entrepreneurs, such as dentists, lawyers, sports associations, some agencies, etc. I think the time has come for these workers to meet too and allow something to operate under easier and more positive conditions, given that they face great difficulties in their business. So, if the intensity of this government and this ministry is to reduce all the parafiscal burdens, to reduce certain taxes that do not bring big incomes, but create great difficulties for businessmen, entrepreneurs, I think this is one topic that the ministry should consider and the whole government to work towards changing that threshold. I expect indeed, because it was, in fact, the intensity of this discussion on the Finance Committee, that soon the bill will arrive in this House in terms of changing that threshold for flat-rate taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2236	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2237	I couldn't agree more with you. As I said on the Committee, we will also raise the threshold for flat-rate taxation when we look more closely at the other provisions of this Member of the Law on Income Tax. So, you're right, we'll work on it, and I believe we'll find the right measure that's now in line with this new VAT entry censorship, since that's logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2238	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and on details, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the ACCIZA Act You have received amendments submitted by the Government and MPs: Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević and Dušica Morčev, Miroslav Petkovic, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Dusica Morčević. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2239	Dear fellow Members of the People, Your Honor, I thought that you would accept this amendment and that you would not increase the excise duty on liquid oil gas, regardless of what would result in a fall in revenue from this excise duty, taking into account the consequences that you will be carrying out by adopting, i.e. By increasing the excise duty to 30 dinars per kilogram. An increase in excise duty on liquid oil gas will cause a direct blow to citizens' standards. The reason is that a large number of drivers use liquid oil gas and precisely because they are more favourable prices for using this gas. The number of citizens has also invested funds to adapt its vehicles to the use of liquid oil gas just once again for lower costs, which would be analised by this increase in excise duties. It's a difficult economic situation, we all know that. The DSS believes that we should now think of citizens more, that we should reduce the pressure on citizens and that we should not increase excise duties that directly affect citizens' standards. So I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2240	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2241	We were unable to accept your amendment for the reasons for the revenue needed to carry out fiscal consolidation. However, as you know, in the law itself, we have provided for the possibility of recovering excise duty for those who use liquid oil gas in transport, so for taxi drivers and carriers who installed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2242	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2243	Dear Ministers, we understand the need for the Republic budget, which, as you say, is devastated and empty, filled with some additional revenues and we understand the need for the Ministry of Finance, or the Government to resort to these measures, which are certainly not popular, but which are being extorted by the increase in excise duties on certain products. That's what every country does when financial stability is compromised. Excise increases, above all, to what are called luxury products and to oil derivatives. But we really don't understand what logic is and what is the motive to raise the excise duty on liquid oil gas, and to say parallelly not to gas or, let's say, alcohol and other products, which are luxury, don't apply to them at all to the increase in excise duties. Liquid oil gas is added to green energies. Each country stimulates green energy, using green energy. I think we are signatories and Kyoto protocols and certain EU recommendations in this regard, so I think I understand that a certain amount of money will be included in the budget, but I don't think it's a good thing to incasate from green energy. There is a way to find that money in other places, but not to tax liquid oil gas that is organic energy. On the contrary, these energies should be stimulated, and as they have been stimulated so far, they will be as low as possible in order to make the use of citizens, i.e. to pollute the environment as much as possible. I think there's a reason to think about adopting this amendment and possibly some other transformation, so imposing excise duties on something else that would detimulatively affect, say, the use of gasoline. Gas belongs to petroleum products but does not belong to organic energy. You can raise that excise on them and thus solve the problem of money shortages, and on the other hand stimulate those who do not pollute the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2244	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2245	It is commendable that part of the funds will be returned to the businessmen, i.e. those who use the correct oil gas as part of their activity. I asked you what to do with a large number of citizens using liquid oil gas just because of a more affordable price. A large number of them invested, I repeat, did not have the means to adjust their vehicles to the use of liquid oil gas. It's really not a small number. I'm sure you have a precise number, since you've predicted how much revenue there will be in the budget of this excise, how many users of liquid oil gas. What I forgot to say in my first address, and he mentioned my colleague, I would point out, another reason is that we need to stimulate fuel consumption. I'd like to ask you if you can fill in the answer. You said that, and it's commendable for the economy, and I will always commend everything about facilitating our businesses, because I'm someone who comes from the economy and who worked in the economy before I joined the Serbian Parliament, but this is the moment when we need to reduce the pressure on the citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2246	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2247	In the discussion, in principle, I expressed a similar attitude as a colleague from the DSS because of a simple argument, without a shred of demagogy and pulsism. Indeed, this is the greatest pressure on citizens and this on the one, we think, medium and lower layer in terms of the social status of the population. Simply, if we look around us, we will see that liquid oil gas is used by citizens of Serbia who have more modest cars, and yet they have invested certain funds to install, alter and change traffic permits, etc. It ranges from over 400 to even over 900 euros. This is a really serious blow to their pockets, and it seems to me that whatever we understand the need to replace the missing funds in the budget, we should still be socially responsible. On the one hand, we have the suspension of taxis for boats, boats, etc. It's still a category of population with a deeper pocket. We've got a taxi release for the rafts. It is, again, a richer category of the population. On the other hand, the greatest pressure on the largest number of Serbian citizens is again. I think right away what came into our eyes, and that's what our colleagues were talking about, which I completely agree on, I wouldn't repeat their argument, I'd just add a new one, and I think it's all the same to accept this amendment. If we want to act as an EU country, we will see that alcohol drinks and cigarettes are the most excise, that our prices of alcoholic beverages and tobacco are much lower than in EU countries. This increase in excise duty on liquid oil gas will be most felt by the poorest layers of our society, and that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2248	National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 18th amendment together. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2249	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say for the public's sake that Article 18 refers to an increase in excise duty on cigarettes and the Government has proposed that excise duties be increased in the period from 1 October 2012, amounting to 43 dinars per pack and 45 dinars per pack since 1 July 2013. Our amendment does not change this bill much, namely we introduce one ranking, and this ranking applies in this sense that we propose that from 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2012 this excise duty is 40 dinars per pack and that from 1 January 2013 to 30 June 2013 this excise duty is 43 per pack. Why are we suggesting this? Because there has already been an increase in the price of cigarettes three times this year, so if this government proposal were accepted, the average total increase in cigarettes per pack would be 45 to 50 dinars. I think it's a little too much for a year. On the other hand, this increase will lead to the average, in fact, that the price of the lowest brand of packaging in Serbia amounts to about 140 dinars, which is somewhere around the euro and 20 cents, which will lead to the highest price of that, let me say the type of cigarettes in the region. According to the information we have, for example, it will be twice as big as a pack of cigarettes in Macedonia, which will allow for smuggling in this period. Why do we propose that this increase start from 1 January 2013, so that when the price of cigarettes is determined, it is extremely important that the price is low compared to the price of cigarettes in the region. According to us, from January 1st and some countries in the region will increase their excise duties, so that the level of cigarette prices in the region will be somewhat the same, which will not allow smuggling. In the government's explanation, they told us, perhaps technically, that the adoption of our amendment will make it impossible to fill the budget, but we are confident that the phenomenon of smuggling will only further reduce budget revenues, and that it will be extremely difficult to eradicate, if that happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2250	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2251	Our logic is reversed from what we just heard from counterpart Hajdarevic. We don't think the state should save those who use cigarettes, they are everywhere in the world of luxury and cigarettes are very taxed, especially in Western European countries, so I'm sure there are no cheaper cigarettes of three, four euros per hell in any Western European country. We will have, with these latest taxes of order, the highest quality cigarettes of Malbora somewhere up to 200 dinars, which is slightly below two euros, which I think is high for our standard. If we bear in mind that it is not a food product, 250, make it two euros, but it is far below 5 euros as it is in Italy or Austria. I think if it's already a luxury, if it's someone's personal choice to smoke, then let him pay. Every normal country's budget is filled with the most, or the most taxed with excise products that are luxury, alcohol and cigarettes and coffee. It makes sense if we wanted to, we were talking about VAT on baby equipment a little while ago, so now we're talking about TNG excise, so if there's some holes in the budget and if there's some intrusions to fill that budget, then it makes sense to go to this story. Let there be even more drastic excises on cigarettes, on alcohol, everyone has a choice whether they use it or not, pay and fill the budget like that. Cheap cigarettes, only the poorest and least developed societies have cheap cigarettes, and those that are the most unhealthy. I think our population health development strategy predicts a reduction in the number of smokers, because we have huge isolations for those who suffer from lung cancers and all the other diseases that cause cigarettes. One of the measures, I'm not saying it's the only one, but one of the measures is to go that way and raise the price. It's not a small number of people who decide to stop smoking by saying – I'm too single for cigarettes, maybe I could save shoes for a child on a monthly level, if I quit smoking. This will, on the one hand, improve the health of the population, and on the other hand, we can solve for those who will not give it up, the inflow into the budget. I think it makes sense to think in that direction and this amendment that we have submitted implies something so that the sooner we start with the bigger excises. So we're not about to evenly distribute the burden of the crisis and make budgets fall to the poorest but exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2252	Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and the government on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2253	Chairman, I didn't expect the Proposer not to talk about the amendment, so I didn't apply in time. I'd like to talk about the previous amendment, but anyway, my exposure will be a little wider. It's about this law, and you can appreciate that we still didn't have enough time to make amendments. We had only 24 hours for 24 laws, so I'll just say a few words when it comes to the amendment, but the fact that practically this law abolishs a budget fund that should be dealt with in prevention, preventing diseases that arise from tobacco use. So my opinion and the parliamentary groups is that it should have been selective and taken care of when individual funds and agencies are abolished and do not go on the principle of rubber and erasing everything that is done to someone is excessive. I believe that the budget fund that should implement preventive programmes for the prevention of diseases associated with the consumption of tobacco products, I am reading the competences of this fund, which is managed by the Ministry of Health Affairs is not a good move. Once again, I call on the motionary, or the minister responsible, to consider this issue. So this abolishes the fund that was supposed to make sure that the funds were collected from the so-called so-called fund. "Divine dinar" will be invested in the prevention of the treatment of diseases resulting from the use of tobacco and diseases resulting from the so-called "divine dinar". "passive tobacco use." It's all those exposed to tobacco smoke. We know what number of people suffer from these diseases and what the cost of treating these diseases is. I believe that any prevention, as we were just talking about the Ecology Fund, is cheaper than treating it, is the consequences, i.e. the resolution of the consequences. I'd be pleased that these funds go into the budget and that they're used over the budget for that purpose, but I'm afraid, Minister, you won't have the opportunity to control the use of those funds when you get into trouble, when you get into a situation where you don't have enough resources. I'm afraid you'll also have the means to prevent treatment of diseases, the means to prevent environmentals, etc. give for purposes for which they do not belong. As a result, I think that the abolition of this budget fund, which did not have too many employees, which did not have great costs, for which no newspaper inscriptions were attached, is the wrong message, and I think that this is how you make another decision that is more demagogue and less going towards the measures that you formally, or in principle, promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2254	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2255	I'm a non-smoking man. I'm falling into a group of people who have a problem with tobacco smoke. It certainly doesn't occur to me that prevention programs and quits. The Ministry of Health, led by Ms Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and we from the Ministry of Finance, have agreed that the programmes that this budget fund has had so far, but will be financed directly by the Ministry of Health in the regular budgetary procedure. So the function will remain, and the fund will be abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2256	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2257	I'd like it to be that way. However, it is the promise of one or two ministers. That doesn't provide the law. This is how you pass legal provisions to the level of promise. I am sincerely concerned with the fact that the health minister, the esteemed president until recently this House, has agreed to such an opportunity. On the other hand, I'm glad you talked about it and that you'll try, even though you're the minister and that minister, to make sure that those funds are not spent for other purposes. However, I say, it does not provide one perseverance. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2258	Thank you. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes in principle, and since they have not submitted amendments to the Law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the voting day to decide on the draft law in general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Momo Colaković, Janko Veselinović and Marijan Rističević, to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fiscal cash registers. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2259	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my amendment refers to the Law on fiscal registers, which envisioned the abolition of fiscal registers for a certain group of craftsmen. In principle, and I suppose the entire parliamentary group supports one possibility for a particular group of craftsmen to make it easier to operate in a way that they will not have to print an account after each service and spend time on it. That's really acceptable. The following fact is unacceptable, and it was the basis for the amendment I submitted, with regard to the costs that these same craftsmen had for the introduction of the register. As I said in the principle debate, Minister Dinkic was one of the proponents of fiscalisation and there he had our support at the time. We felt that this introduced order into public finances, i.e. in collecting value added tax, so that now, in the new function, the finance minister would suggest that these same fiscal cash registers be abolished, i.e. for a particular category of persons, they become optional. If that's the case, we have one basic problem. These people, in order to implement the provisions of the Fiscalisation Act, or the introduction of fiscal cash registers, had to invest certain financial resources, not small, for that purpose, so as to buy the register, to connect through certain devices, to dress, etc. It wasn't a small expense to those people. However, the obligation to own fiscal cash registers is now lifted, and provisions are not foreseen for those people to be recovered. This is about legal uncertainty, this is about the fact that they had only recently had one obligation to shut down. This creates a certainty "for legal certainty", i.e. uncertainty for the future. All that might be right, if in the explanation I got for not accepting my amendment, it wasn't that the government subsidized the introduction of fiscal cash registers. That, fellow MPs, would look like this: me and Minister Dinkic are standing by the river, and Minister Dinkic says -- come on, throw your fellow, throw your 500 euros into the river, and I will throw my 50 euros, not my own, but my state 50 euros, and I throw my 500 euros into the river and you throw 50 euros by the state. When I say -- well, well, let's take out that 500 euros now, you say -- not so I threw my 50 euros. No, you threw 50 euros in the state. So, not only did you put the citizens in a situation to buy the cash they can now throw away, if you're not going to buy them yourself, but you've brought the state into the cost. So, you've spent on subsidies, on fiscalization, on certain means, we're just going to figure out what they are, on something that has no purpose right now. Please explain this explanation of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2260	The word has Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2261	When we introduced fiscal registers in 2005, it was a completely different time. Serbia had a GDP growth rate of over 8%. Our intention was to literally get everyone into the fiscal cash register system, with the idea that the economy would develop and that someone who might have been a cobbler at first would one day be able to strengthen and be able to become a VAT obligor. The only way to know if anyone is truly economically capable of being a VAT obligor is through fiscal registers. Then two things happened. Meanwhile, there was a derogation from the law established by the Ministry of Finance, which I was then conducting. Many ministers, including ministers from your party, were actually to deviate from these rules. I'll give you a few examples. Not introducing fiscal cash registers for lawyers. The Justice Ministers of your ranks have been against it, although I don't see why lawyers are lower economic powers than e.g. It's a tailor. I'm sure they didn't. Meanwhile, this major crisis has also come and is now truly showing up as irrational that those who are cobwebs hold fiscal cash registers, GPRS devices, when it is absolutely certain that they will not, unfortunately, come almost in a position to become VAT bonds and reach these new eight million dinars of censors. That's why we decided now, in 2012, to remove the fiscal cash registers for all the craftsmen and cobwebs that are in this group. On the other hand, the fact is that when the fiscal tills were introduced in 2005, that the state gave money, subsidized the purchase of fiscal tills to all those who are now being abolished. To give double money, I don't think it's rational or fair. As for the craftsman, they are very pleased that their obligation to the fiscal registers is now lifted. What I must say now publicly is that those who report to craftsmen, repairmen, asking them for money now to defiscalise their tills, that craftsmen should not accept it. The craftsmen have no obligation to pay for the defiscalization. If some repairmen want to run into it right now, I just want to get craftsmen and all those who shouldn't have fiscal cash registers to say they don't pay for it. If they don't already know how to do it themselves, let them turn off the GPRS devices from the phone connection, simply, let them shut off the power of the fiscal register, they're no longer bonds of that. There's nothing that defiscalizes them, they can just put it away and eventually try to sell it to someone who's going to be a taxpayer of VAT in the next period. It's my suggestion, not to pay any expenses so-called. defiscalization of repairers, but turn off the electrical devices, from the phone connections. My advice is to try and sell it to someone who needs those fiscal bills. We hope that there will be new young entrepreneurs in the future who will be able to enter the VAT system and will need fiscal cash registers. As far as lawyers are concerned, not to forget, as someone has already mentioned, there is a need for reforming the flat-rate tax system. In the context of this reform, we will treat particularly guilty lawyers who have huge traffic and who pay a miserable little flat tax. It must be brought to the level of their economic strength. Those lawyers who deal with business areas, they're already in the VAT system. I highly doubt the culprits are similar to the economic forces, so in the system of flat tax, we're going to make changes in two ways. Those who have more economic power to give them more ground for the flat-rate tax. Secondly, let's release the cobwebs of other types of tax and intruding. We'll expect the cobwebs to pay their flat-rate taxes, taxes and contributions to employees' earnings, which should also be reported in this way. Just those three, nothing more. No parafiscal other intrusions. If he's a cobweb, he's got a little bit of power. The local self-government's income should be taxed through the flat tax system. I think your objection to the amendment is well-intentioned, but it's not objective, since these people already got the money when we introduced the cash registers. I wanted to take the opportunity to explain all the reasons why we now decided to release.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2262	Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2263	I called because I wasn't sure until the end that you'd explain this story about a lawyer. Indeed, you have my personal support, it's my personal position that certain categories of persons have, for no real reason, remained beyond the range of fiscalization. I agree here that a group of lawyers, in any case, is one of the target groups. I'm not sure if DS ministers were ticos against the introduction of fiscal cash registers for lawyers, but so be it. The MPs of the DS have not been asked about it. I'm sure they wouldn't be into that kind of thing, because why would a shoemaker have a fiscal cash register, and a guilty lawyer wouldn't have a fiscal cash register? True, you haven't answered my question, will you make it up to me? In fact, you said you weren't going to make up for the money people invested, thinking that subsidy was enough. But the craftsmen have received one technical support from you and advice on how to extract their systems from the fiscal register system. It wouldn't be bad for you to make one course for them, it would put extra funds on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2264	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2265	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will support the amendment to Article 1st paragraph 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fiscal registers, proposed by my colleague Janko Veselinovic, for several reasons. The first reason is that there is discrimination between private entrepreneurs. Some are being abolished, some are not being abolished, and regardless of this explanation, I have spoken to some artisans who are not satisfied with this measure. The next thing is – the minimum price for investment in fiscal cash registers was 250 euros, plus 150 euros for the terminal and 300 dinars for the tapes. Not everyone used subsidies, some also opened firms after 2005 and 2006. Some paid 1,000 euros each. If that money doesn't come back to those people, it seems unfair to those people. The second thing I disagree with is these measures to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and private enterprises. I think they're thin to help these people. They're being discriminated against anyway. For domestic companies, some amount of subsidies provided by the National Employment Service is approximately 1,500 euros. On the side, it's a much bigger amount. If we want to help these people, then we have to give more money to each job, we have to cut interest, as I said last time, from 5 to 1%, we have to make it easier for these people who want credits. Unfortunately, with the current situation for both banks and the Development Fund only successful companies, means those who have good balances and those companies that have the property that can guarantee a return of credit can get loans. As for the start-up of a loan, they are only up to 50,000 euros. It should be returned, although there have been abuses in the earlier period, but to the part that refers to equipment guaranteeing that loans can be obtained. Export relief should be made possible and these are the right measures. This way I think these measures are inadequate, they're too small to help these people who are the basis of our economy right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2266	The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2267	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers with government representatives, honourable MPs, I would support this law on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment that has passed, but it is necessary to point out the problem related to the amendment submitted by Mr Veselinović, and regarding the release from the fiscal registers of certain categories of users, i.e. the service provider. It's about different associations. I especially represent the Pensioners' Association which name something over 3,000 in the Republic of Serbia that have their own buffets and restaurants. I want to say that we have reached agreement with Mr Dinkic that this issue is regulated in a different way, i.e. to give an interpretation of whether such clubs, whether sports, whether citizens' associations are obliged to introduce fiscal cash registers. In this regard, I would ask Mr. Minister that what we agreed upon after the meeting of the Finance Committee be seen by the Ministry and that the providers of these services be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2268	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2269	It was just in the discussion of the amendment that there was a flat-rate evaluation of the law and the obligation of the lawyer to pay and to keep records of the tax obligations with the attorneys at all. Personally, I think that this has gone beyond the subject of the amendment itself, but in any case, I think that if we are talking about that service, the most important service involved in the provision of legal aid, the flat-rate assessment whether it's the culprits, the litigators, it's unserious for such a tall home. In any case, a career lawyer who is not constantly working in the National Assembly, who is trying to contribute and make every law that comes out of the National Assembly as good as possible. I think I have an obligation to speak on behalf of the profession and say that it's not right to give a flat rate especially without adequate indicators and to evaluate and classify lawyers in this or that. It's not the same thing as a lawyer in big places or a lawyer who can count on the fingers of one hand who has huge incomes and lawyers in a whole series of small places who cobble in how to provide the existence for themselves and their family members and who are trying to contribute to legal security and protect the interests of the most vulnerable people. You know, to make some kind of coaxial claim, like this, whether or not to pretend to be a judge here, I don't think that's right. In that sense, I ask that we do not go further on the subject, because then we will also have to call on all those written addresses of the international union of lawyers and certain international institutions in terms of fiscalisation. Otherwise, it's not about paying taxes. It's a breach of relationships, trust between lawyers and clients. It was actually the biggest dilemma in the matter. I wouldn't open that subject anymore, but if it's necessary, then we'll have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2270	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the FINANCE OF LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Dušica Morčević, Milan Lapčević, Olgica Batić, Vladimir Ilic, Vesna Kovac, Slava Savilić, Ivan Joković, Snezana Stojanov-Plavić, Predrag Marković, Saša Milenić, Jelena Travar-Miljević, Branislav Jovanovic, Nikola Jovanovic, Jožef Šandor, Anavković, Nenad Kitanovic, Miroljub Stojić and Marijan Risticevic, as well as the amendments submitted by the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2271	Thank you. Dear government officials, dear colleagues and colleagues, we've already discussed this. As far as this Law on the financing of local self-government is concerned, we find it extremely important that local self-governments know exactly what resources they can count on and simply define funds and fees for the use and regulation of building land and environmental protection fees, that they go directly to the budget of local self-government. Of course, I understood the minister's argument last time, that this would be found in the Budgetary System Act and in particular the Tax and Compensation Act, but I would like to point out once again that it is very important to define it clearly and precisely, and that there is no chance of missing the definition of such fees, because the budgeting of local self-government depends on these fees. We need to be careful that one of these fees is accidentally not to be abandoned and not to be defined, because if we return jurisdiction to local self-government, we must return the funds as well. Not everything can be replaced by this increase in income tax money. All those imposes that have come to local self-government and by abolishing these several fees through the Law on Public Roads, Water Law, etc., which have been poured into municipal budgets, it is very important to consider this well, to define clear criteria and to make these fees very carefully defined, because only strong municipalities, strong local self-governments can make us a strong state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2272	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2273	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, and I am reporting on the 1st point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government. First of all, these changes, as the colleague said, delete points 5, 6 and 7. These are fees for the use of city-building land, compensation for the construction of city-building land and environmental protection fees. You all probably know, you were in local self-government, that these are traditionally the highest incomes in the budgets of local self-government. They account for up to 30 per cent of the total revenues of the budget self-government locals. By erasing us in local self-government, we don't know what that amount of funds will be substituted for. Is this going to be this new benefit for the use of public goods, which was introduced at point 5, but we still don't know what those fees are, what rates they are, and what public goods are going to call that fee? So we can't know for sure what the financial effects are and possibly the new benefits that would replace these revenues. I come from a small local self-government, it's a municipality of Svilajnac, where traditionally these revenues that we're now abolishing, these fees are over 30%. At this point, I can say, we've calculated that we're going to stay 30 percent shorter in the local budget or the entire 150 million dinars. Please think carefully, these are primarily the funds from which the city-building land funds were being filled, or as they were called in certain local self-governments, and from these funds we funded capital, local, infrastructure projects. I'm afraid now with this much reduction, and without knowing any new fees that will fill that gap, we'll stay with local budgets that will literally cover only wages. If we're going to have any material costs for schools and kindergartens, it's a question. I believe about some local investment projects that we cannot even talk about, and as the time for the Republic budget approaches, so is the time for the local budgets, and we already have clear visions of what we can plan for. What will be a major problem with local self-government is the possibility of re-counting so far-paid taxis, communal fees at municipal level, so that municipal administrations cannot now count on those revenues, which they have already charged, which they have already categorized as already charged revenues, and, of course, count on them, nor can they physically collect those same obligations, or obligations to entrepreneurs on this same basis in the future, because the law has already entered into force on 1 October. I regret that this amendment of ours has not been accepted. I believe that you, Mr. Minister, know for yourself, have found a huge budget deficit, that you must certainly fill it and find the fastest way to increase the revenue side, and the easiest and fastest way to raise VAT and increase excise duties. On the other hand, much stronger and, I would say, it's more centralised to control the spending of budget money from local to republican level. I'm just afraid that with these measures, please clarify the problem of new revenues from the local self-government budget, there will be a lot of local self-government without money to function normally. Once again, I ask you not to let it happen as it did in the past government or past governments, except for the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, when many local self-governments were able to get the money that followed them from the republican budget, but there was certainly a political resemblance. I hope you don't look at it, I hope you look at all the municipal self-government equally. Just to remind you or ask. With the means of solidarity in the same category of two local self-governments, one will make an effort to collect much more local incomes, the other will say – which I would also try to collect these original revenues when, in this category of development, I do not have to work very hard. I fear that those who are more agile in the collection of local income will be punished in this way. Please once again, look closely at how much income local self-government is taken and how much revenue will be returned through some new charges, or through some new fees you plan to introduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2274	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2275	I've already spoken in the context of the interpretation of this law that no compensation for the use of construction land as the income of local self-government is lifted, that no environmental tax as the income of local self-government is abolished, except for the part for the registration of motor vehicles, which is only 500 dinars. All these three you've read are only being changed because of their form of the Budgetary System Act. They remain in force for local self-government revenues. So don't just worry about it, because the three you've read, all three remain the income of local self-government and don't stop at this point. Only in the next period will we talk to local self-governments, within the framework of property tax reforms, how we can resolve it, but now it is not abolished by this law. What's being lifted? The company is being abolished for entrepreneurs and small businesses, limited to others and all these taxes we've counted. In this first introductory article, only different definitions of certain taxis are given, but they are not abolished and the income of local self-government remains and beyond. As for the date of entry into force, it is true that local self-government will have one part of the income they have already charged from entrepreneurs and small enterprises, because they have charged them at the beginning of the year, and they will not be obliged to pay in the last quarter, I think it is a good thing that entrepreneurs will be released in the last quarter. If they have already paid in advance, they can be rewritten in the name of some other obligation they have to local self-government in the following year. It was given in this law. I think it's a good idea for you and other local self-government to once inform craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and small enterprises, which have 300,000 in Serbia, that something doesn't have to pay by October 1st, because so far they've only always got what new ones have to pay for. If they've already paid, you won't have to pay them back if you don't want to, but you can tell them – you can do it on a flat tax basis, for example, or some other obligation for 2013, to account for that last quarter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2276	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2277	I understand the amendment promoter, I absolutely understand him on whether something is clear enough or not is clearly defined enough and in this law which we are currently considering regarding this amendment and regarding the Law on the Budgetary System, because all these laws have ties to the Budgetary System Act. By amendment and by that law, to the Budgetary System Act, I tried to solve this inconceivability, precisely in terms of taxis and fees, because the Law on the Budgetary System defines fees and fees, and those fees and fees are related to those laws where the Proposer is the Ministry of Finance. I do not think that in the draft law there is sufficient attention to Articles 13 and 14, the uniform methodological rules for the making of rules, because this is part of the unique methodological rules concerning transitional and final provisions, in terms of what is and what is not valid. The fact is that, if something is put out of force, it must be tax-listed and for the sake of obtaining the general social public in laws, because regardless of whether the consolidated text is done by an authorised institution or the non-formal consolidated texts, which serve to better manage judges, lawyers, all lawyers and the general public, in order to be able to do this unofficially purified text must know what is being put out of force and what is not put out of force. In that part, I am more than pleased that Mr. Minister gave an explicit interpretation of environmental protection and improvement fees at the meeting of the Finance Committee on 18 September. That's extremely important for Pancheva. Mr. Minister gave a direct statement, I asked for stenographic notes precisely because the public in Panchev would be familiar with that attitude. So it doesn't touch in Article 87. Law on the protection of the environment and the possibility of billing so-called tolls in Panchev or compensation for the transport of dangerous goods through certain local environments. That's extremely important for Pancheva. But I think it would be better if the exact same thing was written and the clarification was in the very law on the budget system. If we are not able to do so today in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, I am counting on these doubts concerning this amendment that we are currently discussing, that we will be in a position to do a new law on the budgetary system or on amendments and additions, that we will also try to clarify these things, that there will be no doubt. This is especially in view of Article 46. The law on the budgetary system, because on the date of entry into force of this law, ceases to apply the provisions of the laws and regulations governing the belonging of the beneficiaries of the budget and the beneficiaries of the mandatory social security organisation. It's about belongings, to whom it belongs, and that compensation and everything else. In that sense, I point out again, because of the speed of time, we were in no position to clarify everything. That's why we're forced to explain some of the misunderstandings here on the tide itself. But again, I would point out that to avoid the need to give authentic interpretation of a certain regulation, it is good to define certain things clearly here, at least through an explanation of Mr. Minister who gave these fees, so that it remains recorded, so that we know what the right will of the legislator is and that we know what the right will of the legislator is if we adopt such laws. Tomorrow when someone with the need for authentic interpretation comes forward, we need to know what we were for. In that sense, I think it's a good idea for us to keep this discussion on the tide, to remain a stenogram from this session, so that we know about the very application of these rules as they apply. In particular, for Pancheva this is extremely important - the compensation provided for in Article 87. The environmental law, and I am happy that it was adopted in practice. I think it would be even better if the paper was defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2278	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusana Morčević and Milan Lapčević. The government, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from Mrs. Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2279	Dear citizens of Serbia, I just want to say that I am very sorry and I wish you could see how many MPs, the people's representatives are interested in this law on the financing of local self-government and how much they are being followed and involved here in this discussion. As for us, the DSS, now, at one point, we ask what will happen to the revenues of local self-government, and secondly, what happens, or we ask that these means of self-delivery be abolished. It is not about abolishing some of the original revenues of local self-government, but rather about how to make a decision to introduce self-dependence. The rules so far, i.e. by law, can only introduce self-delivery if more than 50% of citizens come to the referendum. However, it is very difficult and very rare. Probably in one or two percent of local self-government and local communities can introduce this self-dependence. I think this part needs much better to be defined. Perhaps it would be better if 50% plus one of the simple majority of those who went out to the referendum for the introduction of self-indulgence vote. It is usually an excellent source of income for local communities and for the realization of the works of some infrastructure projects in local communities, municipalities, etc. In light of this previous story, we just have to define well and define the funds of local self-government, that local self-government knows what they can count on in their budgets. Of course, what we were talking about the other day, for a very good system of controlling the use of these funds of local self-government, because in the previous period, I have to tell you – who was bitten by a snake and the lizard was afraid – we had major problems with the political likeness or inadequacy of certain local self-governments. Therefore, I believe it is extremely important that criteria on the adoption of certain fees and the definition of those funds in all the laws that go into the budgets of local self-government are clearly defined and that the same system of control of the spending of these funds is sharp, strict but just, rather than whether some local self-governments are politically similar or inadequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2280	Thank you. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vladimir Ilic, Vesna Kovac, Slavica Saveljic, Ivan Jokovic, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic, Predrag Markovic, Saša Milenić, Jelena Travan-Miljević, Branislav Jovanovic, Nikola Jovanovic, Jožef Shandor, Ana Novakovic and Nenad Kitanovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 3rd amendment was brought together by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozovic. The government, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government did not accept this amendment with a correction. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Bojana Bozanić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2281	Thank you. As far as this amendment is concerned, we believe that it is probably this previous amendment, we believe that it is the consequence of this amendment. We may not have been the happiest way to formulate it here, but it certainly was the idea that has now entered the amendment proposal and the additions of this law, which is simply to make one graduation in those vehicles, or not to stimulate those who have luxury cars. I think it's this previous amendment that you've listed, which has been adopted and defined. I thank you for that. So I believe that colleagues have only had more time to work this out a little bit better, so we'll think that's our success on the one hand. Thank you. Also, I'd like to say that you should be very careful about these companies. So, if you don't let the story go again, don't let the maximum increase of the company's business according to some criteria that may not be clear or accurate. Indeed, I do not insist on these terms, but on having what the minister had previously talked about, those criteria on the social status of certain local self-governments which the ministry will allow to increase the companies for large enterprises and those companies dealing with oil derivatives, banks, insurance companies, etc., more than what is maximumly prescribed by law. So, please, just so that the party in power in that municipality does not determine according to the ministry whether there will be additional funds in that budget or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2282	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2283	As for this first one, you're right, we were inspired by your amendment, so we made this amendment to the Committee. As far as the second one is concerned, I said that our intention is to replace a company as a form at one point in time with a property tax for legal persons with a more adequate legal basis. So we're going to use this right and hopefully very briefly, and then through the amendment of the property tax law, we're going to solve this systematically.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2284	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2285	I answered exactly what you just said to comment, we have the introduction of our amendment, and that's what I commended in the previous report, indeed, all those measures that are being introduced to help businesses, meaning entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. I would just point out, as far as the current situation is concerned and how it is, which is that, according to this proposal, disproportionately burdened medium-sized enterprises with the amounts of the company as a local tax, which has no real economic justification. So, abolished for small business entrepreneurs, for medium-sized enterprises, the maximum amount of two average earnings per year, while the large ones are limited to the amount of three average earnings per year, which is inconsistencies with the size of the company. We believe that a firm for medium-sized enterprises should be up to a maximum of one average, in order to make that ratio, but what you said is exactly that. Medium-sized enterprises, in fact, even enterprises, are covered by that part of it by a property tax. So if they're property owners, they pay property taxes, and if they're not, if they're renting an object, then they pay VAT. So it already exists, that part is covered. That's what the company pays for. I'm glad that you said that it would be regulated and that it would be corrected. Until that happens, consider once again that perhaps for now, as some transitional solution, we reduce this firm's medium-sized enterprises to the level of one average profit over the course of one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2286	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2287	Believe it or not, I've been looking for two days of this amendment that you've announced that a firm for medium-sized enterprises is limited to the maximum amount of one average salary in local self-government, and then they told me in the congregation service that you withdrew it. I wanted to really adopt him on the Committee, but you pulled him out for some reason in the procedure, and we can't adopt him because he doesn't exist in the procedure right now. Otherwise, I absolutely agree when your representative of the authorized group said that, I immediately gave the order to my associates to find that amendment to adopt it, but we didn't find it because it was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2288	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2289	In the principle debate, I was talking about this, there was a technical error in making amendments, I was wrong, my first term was my first term, and I made a mistake, technically. I'm sure you could come up with a solution through the board, take that into account and make this right, you could have been through the boards. I don't know what reason you're not, but it's not too late, and now that it's part of this amendment, you have it in front of you, it's included in this amendment, you come out to meet us and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2290	Thank you. National MP Miroljub Stojcic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration, the Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2291	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government in Article 3, in the proposed Article 15a. in Article 5, point 5 is replaced by the following: I have proposed an amendment to add a new Article 6 to this article, which reads: "The units of local self-government, whose average earnings per employee is lower than the average of the republican average, when the company is determined, will apply the average earnings per employee achieved at the level of the Republic of Serbia. ". In fact, lately it could be heard that, and even these few days, local municipal taxes are quite unequal. Real examples and various examples have been cited, in particular, that taxes are the largest in those poorest local self-governments. For these reasons, it has been approached to determine the maximum amounts set out in the draft law. However, the bill still maintains inequality, as the basis for the proposed average unit earnings achieved at the level and on the territory of the unit of local self-government was proposed. Given the average earnings of January – July 2012 and data from the Republic Statistics Institute, profits ranged from 29.305 dinars in Merošina to 89.443 dinars in Lazarevec. At the same time, at the district level there are significant differences in average earnings, so in Ljig, for example the average profit of 31,494 dinars, and in Lajkovec 86,306 dinars, which is the difference of 2,74 times, given that in the League the earnings in July were 24,086 dinars, the profit ratio will be significantly higher. There are also similar examples in other districts, but there is certainly no justification and logic that the same bonds in neighbouring and poorer local self-government pay a communal tax, which differs, up to three times and it is smaller. I note that there is no justification for this if the prices of services and good taxpayers are the same throughout Serbia. That is why there are several reasons for submitting this amendment. First, and the first reason, the proposed amendment provides for municipal or republican average earnings as the basis for determining the municipal tax which would allow for a large disproportionate rate in taxes. Secondly, the proposal is very compromised because it does not burden local self-governments with high average earnings and allows small municipalities to tax taxpayers on average republican earnings and make slightly better income. The third reason, the third proposal is the fact that it does not go to the benefit of the debtors, because the fees currently paid under the applicable regulations are significantly higher and the businessmen will certainly have reduced taxes. Fourthly, this way will reduce the number of requests that will come to the ministry by local communities to be approved and fifth, this proposal still provides greater funds to small municipalities, enabling them to develop more rapidly, which was one of the promises both the SPS and other parties in the election campaign. So I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, Mr. Minister, to reconsider this decision of yours and consider the proposal once more and make a decision. Just at the very end, I'm using time and MP groups. I would just like to say to you, quite frankly, do not give us the approvals, or explanations to give us an explanation of our amendments, because this amendment and this explanation is absolutely a little bit and offensive, because the explanation you gave is not accepted – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons because the commitment of the company to the average wage per employee in the local self-government unit, on whose territory the payer pays, i.e. performs the activity, is economically justified and provides equal and even burden for the debtors, creating certain legal certainty for the debtors and creating a more favourable climate for the privatisation and new investment. Does this mean that if we accept that average income at the level of the Republic is a parameter in local communities, that it will have legal and more insecure local communities and that we will be more unfavourable for foreign investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2292	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2293	I can accept that the way these amendments are written is often not adequate for officials at the Ministry of Finance. I have to say that these are all people who work here for a long time, but it is definitely necessary to refresh the ranks probably in all ministries, including the Ministry of Finance. I changed my assistant in charge of the budget. You have already seen what a drastic difference in work, the one who has communicated with it, but obviously that even at lower levels to allow competitions to come perhaps professional people, so that you don't come into an awkward position so that the explanation it writes simply doesn't suit any normal logic. I apologize for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2294	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to reconsider this amendment. I come from a municipality where that's not a problem, since the Fireman is on average almost a little bit missing, but there's one thing that's purely economic logic. So we have two economic operators. One operates on the territory of a municipality that has a high average of earnings and another operates on the territory of a municipality that has a lower average of earnings. They carry out similar activities, have similar turnover in terms of income they earn, one already because of a large offer for labour pay for workers lower than is paid in municipalities where average earnings are at the level of the Republic of Serbia, because the level of earnings depends on the supply of labour that is on the market. This means that by not accepting this amendment, we have made it possible for those who, through the payments of higher profits, to continue to fill them even more, unlike those where the average earnings are below the average of the Republic, on the territory of that unit of local self-government, who pay less workers and will pay less taxes, and show the same profit. Simply, the tax system, tax rates, taxes are fiscal taxes, should be in line with the economic opportunities of the taxpayer. By not accepting this amendment, we simply create a certain situation to do something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2296	Thank you. MP Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2297	Dear colleagues, I am from a city with the highest average earnings, but I want to support a colleague who has submitted this amendment. This amendment is essentially the answer to that policy that we have all led during the pre-election period. The commitment of all political parties was so that it was primarily necessary to help those municipalities and to enable those municipalities that were underdeveloped to make bigger revenues and to develop more rapidly, to have a higher level of investment in infrastructure, which will later enable them, to say new investments and to be an incentive for new development. We can't just make these measures make these municipalities come true, say some elements, so they can develop. They can only develop if they have the means in their budgets to equip locations, bring infrastructure and bring investors through. I repeat, this has been a pawn for everyone. We've all got points at this pawning point. Some have even made significant progress in terms of many public opinion studies. This was a policy ahead of the end of last government, and I pray that such a policy be made by those who led it and taught it. I expected the minister to give reasons in his explanation and in his announcement for refusing this amendment, not for the quality of the reasoning. I'd like to hear them, if possible. In any case, I call on the MPs, since this amendment does not affect the balances in our budget, but, let me say, the relationship between local self-government and legal entities in the territory and local self-government, is to support this amendment and to support all of us together the most underdeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2298	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2299	I'll explain why I'm against this amendment. Because if they took the average salary in the Republic of Serbia as the basis for establishing a maximum firm for, for example, medium and large enterprises in undeveloped municipalities, they would escape logic and issues, which are actually paid in undeveloped municipalities less than in Belgrade. Because companies that finance essential workers who receive these salaries are less economic forces. It is logical that the amount of the firm in Babusnica is lower than the amount of the firm's in Belgrade, because these companies cannot pay the companies that can pay the companies in Belgrade. If we want to burden the companies in Babusnica, in Crno Trava, in Vlasotinc in the same way that the companies in Belgrade are burdened, I disagree with you. I think they should have fewer companies so they can hire more people. That's where unemployment is the biggest problem. They're not as many municipal budgets in trouble as these companies are in trouble, and that's why we release them. I'm very strongly against this amendment, let me tell you right now, but I didn't want to discuss it at first, thinking that I was clear enough on the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2300	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2301	I don't want to argue with the minister. Of course, I respect the government's position and that thinking, but I still have to say for the sake of these people who sit here and do the public that it's not a proposal for this amendment that the Babusnica company is counting on average earnings in Belgrade, but that it is being accounted for by average earnings in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is two different concepts. So we're not asking and no one is suggesting that the Babusnica firm, which barely makes ends meet, has as an account 29,000, that it has an account of 80,000 or 60,000, what is the last statistics, but that it has what is for Serbia – 30 and several thousand. We are not talking about dramatic differences now, but we are talking about significant revenues for the Babusnica municipality which, I repeat, will remain undeveloped until it has in its budget certain resources that will be able to improve its infrastructure level and thus attract investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2302	Thank you. Now we'll set a break at 3:00.15.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2303	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work and before we move on to further debate on the amendments, I would like to inform you that on the basis of article 27. Today's Rules of Procedure will be working until 10:00 p.m., and at the same time I'll inform you that we will begin this session on Tuesday at 10.00 p.m. and finish the unfinished amendments, and the new session will begin at 14.00 p.m., so on Tuesday, I don't know what the date is. I think I made myself clear. Whoever's there for him is clear. The 6th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections were not spoken of. The Justice Committee has not accepted the amendment with the correction and the local self-government. Does anyone want a word? Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2304	Dear Chairman, to fellow MPs who have one dozen in the O.R., I don't know where the minister is, to whom I should address this amendment, and my time will probably pass by by by the time he gets here. But in any case, I think that this 6th article, which defines the fees of local self-government, which are the incomes granted to local self-government, must be precisely defined, so I have already considered the previous amendments, and I have talked about them on the subject. So we need to know exactly what funds local self-government in their budgets can count on. I believe in a word, as some of my colleagues have said, that there will be no problems in terms of income going into the budget of local self-government, but I think it is extremely important that it is not forgotten, that there is no gap when we pass the law on fees and taxes, and I believe that perhaps it is not the happiest thing that only the ministries will bring, or determine which fees that will come well into the state, whether in the municipal budgets, have so far had the possibility of local self-government for individual fees. Also, it's very important to know that the funds of local self-government through several of these laws are being abolished in some part of it, but it's also being replaced by this income tax I've already talked about. You should also know that in addition to these taxis being abolished, which can be replaced by this profit tax, we also have revenues, i.e. expenditure on regional travel routes returned to local self-government, for example, in the area of education of the jubilee prize that must be paid out of the municipal budget, then we have primary health care that must be returned to the municipal budget in the coming period and all of this we are trying to replace with those funds from the income tax. That's a lot of trouble. I know the minister said that some of the funds will be allocated to the next period for, for example, local travel routes, but what I don't know is what starts in October, so I don't know what we're going to do to clean up over 60 kilometers, sometimes regional roads now, until those funds are defined. I think it takes care of the specificities of certain municipalities, whether they are agricultural, tourist municipalities, etc. and that the allocation criteria in certain areas must be defined accordingly. I don't think that criteria can only be based on one basis, whether the municipality is up to 50 or over 50,000 inhabitants, etc. I'm very sorry the minister isn't here to hear all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2305	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2306	I'm advertising a violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure and I'd like to ask you to take a break until the minister arrives so that we can discuss the amendments to this law in quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2307	Please, yesterday at the College we agreed together, we knew that the minister would be a little late and we agreed on all the head of the circuits, so that for a few minutes we wouldn't wait here, because it's on the Finance Committee. We can keep going. It shouldn't be a big problem. He'll be informed, but that's the deal. We ask you then to honor this agreement, otherwise it was not for the heads of the parliamentary groups to accept it, but to say we disagree. That's the deal, and I'm asking that we honor the deal, and in a few minutes, the minister will be here. I have information that he's coming. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The Government, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2308	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't mind the minister being at lunch and being a little late. I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government. The purpose of the amendment is to allow better control by the Ministry of Finance towards local self-government, especially for funds transferred as transferable. In view of the numerous abuses committed by local self-government when it comes to budgetary resources, so it is almost impossible for the local self-government doing so, that the Ministry of Finance does anything to such a local self-government that violates all regulations and abuses funds from public funds, i.e. from the budget. There are self-governments where such means, obtained from the republic, are equipped with private industrial zones. I'll set an example. In India, local officials, remember good social land, undermining social land, which is used by the Cooperatives and which are not allowed to alienate, translate to the personal names of local self-government officials. Then, by means of public funds, the citizens of local self-government make the land public, and previously as local officials, since the government is in their hands, turn it into construction. So we get private industrial zones, of course, with abuse of position, but even worse with abuse of public funds, where public functions create private businesses and private industrial zones, which is impossible. In India, local officials thus translated 300 hectares of building land that paid 45 dinars a square metre, and then on the cost of citizens of local self-government, on the cost of the citizens of AP and from the budget, which is worst, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, communally equipped to sell it for 40 times the price, or 20 to 30 euros per square metre. Thus, by misusing their position and budgets, they obtained property, an anti-law benefit of between 50m and 60m euros. Thanks to the abuse of budget funds, penthauses of 250 square square meters have been removed, apartments of 150 square square meters have been removed in Vienna, houses with swimming pools have been found. From last session to today, there were two other apartments in Novi Sad, they weren't found, they weren't my subject, I was showing it to you. Nikla house on a 500-square Tatar Hill. There was no other apartment of 150 squares, of course there was a terrace of 60 and some squares. Nicholo penthaus of 397 square meters. There's no other 500-square house. So, nothing closed pool with hot water. No restaurant for a woman, no private winery. No apartments in Budva and Rovinj. So, by misusing the funds from local funds, this property has been removed and of course I expected the state to react, but it's not there. There's not a single prosecutor for organized crime. But not to be, given the different interpretations in public, I'm going to say this time and what person it's about. It is the former president of the Indji municipality, who lived with his family in a 50-square apartment, was a third-year student and earned 100,000 euros in his career. It now has only these assets for three million euros, and in total, by misusing budget funds, they have contributed to themselves and others through those private zones the opposite benefit of 60m euros. I'm asking you, how long will this take? Instead of some state prosecutor having a conversation with me, so if I made this up, he'd file a complaint against me for slander, and if I hadn't invented it, the state would have finally reacted against faces like this. Instead, in public media, I read mostly about one of my statements about "the parade of pride". So, some country, some government that wants to fight corruption, some ministry that has to cut this off, the finance ministry, must be allowed to control in a certain way how local self-governments abuse funds for the benefit of public officials and private industrial zones. I didn't even know it could exist, but here in the country Serbia can do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2309	Please don't spread the subject. Thank you. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2310	Probably, Chairman, you're assuming that's why I called. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 106. So, your predecessor, the chairman of the afternoon, Mr Oliver Dulic, the MP, in less than half a minute of exposure to what she estimated was not in line with the agenda theme, and the warning is withdrawing the fine, you know. The previous MP spoke... Please, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure because my MPs are getting out of order, and that's also not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. You'll give me two more minutes, won't you? So the previous speaker spoke beyond the agenda. Not only that, but he was making libels and lies against faces that weren't present here in the O.R. So you misused the Rules of Procedure, a member of this Rules of Procedure, which you allowed the previous speaker to speak beyond the agenda. Indeed, this is now already discrimination against the opposition MPs. You do not have to give us the privilege, but allow us to participate in the work of this congregation under even conditions. Today, you have discriminated against the MPs of the Democratic Party in a difficult way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2311	Please, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not getting into my predecessor's work methodology. As far as I know, the warning was issued after more warnings to return to the agenda. Mr. Marijan Risticevic, too, when I saw him leave, he broke up. So I couldn't right away. You realize, you still need to let a man go, to see if he left the topic or not. When I realized that, let me say, he missed the subject, I warned him, and I think I respected the Rules of Procedure. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2312	So, I ask you to make a statement in the voting day on this point, because the previous MP has indeed left the agenda topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2313	In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2314	Article 103 of the replica base. The previous speaker used Article 106 as the basis for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2315	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2316	Article 103 of the replica base.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2317	Injury of the Rules of Procedure by whom?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2318	Article 103. - The MP has the right to orally point to the violation and conduct of the President of the National Assembly, etc. The previous MP used that right, but I'd say he also abused it. If he read my amendment, my amendment refers precisely to abuses of budget funds by local self-government. That's what this is about. As far as the name is concerned, I haven't mentioned a single name, but I'm going to mention it for the public. It's about Goran Jesic. The previous speaker says I'm the one who made the libels. How does he know it's slander? Here, I say it's true. If this isn't true, I'm going to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2319	Mr. Risticevic, don't enter the replica now. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. I have commented - the People's Messenger has the right to... Please, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2320	All right. I'm withdrawing the amendment in writing. I see they're in their way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2321	Mr. Risticevic, more for the others. Every MP has the right to express his position on a matter. The duty of the chairman is to assess whether or not someone has hurt the Rules of Procedure. He can hurt, his right, and it's my duty to warn him and warn him. That's what I did and I made a comment. There's no need to get into replicas. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2322	I don't dispute your rights or his rights. I'm just saying I pulled the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2323	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic and Ivan Jovanovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic and MP Ivan Jovanovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2324	Thank you. The amendment to this article, which is Article 3(1), has been submitted by us from the DSS and another MP, I am not sure from which parliamentary groups, but when MPs from different parliamentary groups notice and propose the same text of the amendment, this suggests that the minister who has the power to do so could also accept that amendment. Otherwise, this is not an amendment concerning the proposed changes in terms of abolishing some fees and taxis. We believe that it is justified to abolish certain fees that have been a burden for the development of tourism and tourist workers. This is a different kind of change, and it's a different amendment. Generally, Article 94 of the current law regulates matter regarding tourist guides, tourist escorts and animators. It's one long term member where everything is regulated. Among other things, a tourist guide and animator are prescribed to pass a professional exam. The expert exam should be passed before the committee formed by the minister. In the current law, it is specified which experts make up the commission. The current law states, and you plan to abolish this change, that it is experts in the fields of tourism, tourist resources, agency and hotel business, social order, etc. Deleting this remains the only provision in this position for the committee to be decided by the minister. In my opinion, it may have been necessary to expand these areas, if you have already noticed that this commission cannot be satisfactorily formed because you may have left out those economists and perhaps even the lawyers here. If you've noticed this flaw, then you'd be better off expanding this. Now, you've abolished this absolutely, so we can, although I believe that the minister who's in charge of this, and I think you're the one who's in charge and who's doing this, can be responsible and form that commission in quality. The very fact that you're erasing this right now, a little bit of doubt, that can be founded or unfounded. We suggest that you do not change this provision in the bill. And you did not miss, for example, at point 4. to enter the word – that the person who wants to be a tourist guide, or who is to pass that exam, must have at least a secondary education in a four-year period. That's what we missed when it was law, and now that they're changed, so are you and we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2325	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have been searching the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Privatization You have received an amendment submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the amendment on the tabled amendment. On the basis of Article 163(2), the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment by MP Nedj Jovanovic, with a correction, which is added in front of Article 1. According to Article 163(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, to decide in the draft law in general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending law on mandatory security in traffic you have received an amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Shin to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the amendment on the tabled amendment. On the basis of Article 163(2), the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been rejected as an incomplete amendment, which is added after Article 1a, which was submitted by MP Srdjan Shane. According to Article 163(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, to decide in the draft law in general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Ionizing Airs and on Nuclear Security You have received amendments submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and People's MPs Nenad Popović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Ružica Igić on the proposal of the Law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the Committee on the Protection of the Environment has drawn amendments to Articles 7, 8 and 10, which it submitted on 21 September 2012. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2326	Only on behalf of the Environment Protection Committee as its president. You have noticed that several times the Committee has submitted certain amendments and they are in line with what has been discussed here in principle. We used our right as a committee to try and fix the law. The minister said it was the intensity he had and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2327	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2328	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, there was indeed a lot of debate on this law on the Environment Committee as well. This bill and these amendments show that the government is ready to accept some recommendations or committees, or individual MPs. However, accepting such an amendment leads us astray and, let's say, leads us astray from the citizens of Serbia and the environmental organisation, that the government is ready and ready for great things. You know what's been going on in the last year and a half at the public company "Nuklear facilities of Serbia" – there have also been shifts of directors, and there have been talk of major malversions. I'm saying there was talk, and I'm putting it under quotes, because I don't know what was going on there. There were several incidents. It's really an institution of great importance. At the vote, I was abstentioned on the Committee, but I ask you to stick to all things in principle, so that's how it is when we consider the Environment Fund. We just have insinuations that it worked out well there, as we have insinuations that even the Environmental Protection Fund didn't work out properly. At least that's how we've heard it several times over the last few days, and that's not enough ground to shut down the Fund, as apparently not enough ground to shut down a public enterprise, nuclear facilities. We think he should stay. It's a good thing he stays. It is a very important nuclear security for citizens and citizens of Serbia. Also, you will see in the following proposals of the law there are many problems and there are many non-disciplineities by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2329	National MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2330	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on the Committee on Environmental Protection, we have had the opportunity to hear a lot of this and to boast that six Committee sessions have been held so far. In this constructive debate, I think that the members of the opposition parties also realized that this was a kind of consolidation of public finances and that this is why certain agencies that existed, and in their particular business were precisely defined in the areas they were dealing with, were now required to belong to the organization of what was now to the Ministry of Environment, that is to say, energy, development and environmental protection, which was partly given to certain businesses through the Environmental Protection Agency. At this point, this was the best solution that could be established, while respecting the proposed budget rebalancing. What was important to us, and that is that, as a kind of compromise, we have found ourselves between Mrs. Milica Vojic's proposal on the nuclear facilities of Serbia and the ionising radiation agency not to go into the creation of some new institutions, the type of institution and not to be shut down. It's precisely because there's a large number of people, experts in this area, and that's why we don't get into this situation so that professional people leave their places, and leave the branch at all. It was also our basic idea that, ultimately, the government would accept this proposal not to shut down either the ionising radiation agency or the nuclear facilities of Serbia. How did they do, what did they do, what decisions did they make? That's not what we were getting into. After all, it's a matter of compromise, on the one hand. On the other hand, we had a story about budget rebalances, where we said that, there would come a theme about the fund, I won't answer again, there were large debts left on this issue, that it would take us two years of the fund's business, to collect certain fees to pay certain debts that were left behind. We have not entered into the essence of business and the way the realisation of this fund has been done. We didn't want to do that. We've heard a lot in the public debate, but we wanted to show that we can support this rebalancing with this congested state. After all, the people of the profession and those who are members of the board, and the position and opposition, we are aware that it is not the best solution. We will seek a better solution, even in the next draft budget for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2331	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very close to the day we talked about this in principle, I think from what we said in principle, the DSS made its position clear. We feel that there is much to be taken into account whether some agencies were doing well or not, whether some legal persons were doing well or not. That should be specific to whether they were working and whether they should be abolished. Another very important criterion for this is that it must be assessed what role they play in protecting the environment and what role they play in the area for which they are made. Thus, this ionising radiation protection agency and for Serbia's nuclear security played a very large role. The minister indeed wisely decided to try to preserve some of these institutions that are very important for national security and for the health of citizens. I must say that we, or the DSS, have submitted these amendments, of course before we were given this opinion to support what we're saying, and then the Committee of Time Straits entered to make amendments. What we wanted to show is that there is one legal disagreement in this bill on amendments. The fact is that the ionising radiation protection agency and Serbia's nuclear security are being replaced. We replaced the ministry's words with the protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. Why? Because according to the Ministry Act, adopted by this majority and this government to form this government, there is a clear responsibility to protect against ionic radiation, the Ministry of Energy, the protection of the environment, and the authority of nuclear security has the Ministry of Education. Then at this point, there is this difference, and we responded correctly when we wrote that the ministries of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security are in line with this law. So, we were just trying to harmonize what was legally written, to get in touch with each other, what it says in the Ministry Act. Of course, this amendment precedes what later came. I must say that, as chairman of the Committee and as MP, I was not an advocate for this agency to be abolished from ionic radiation at all. I'm glad a modusa was found, so no matter what. He's bad, to be clear, but it would have been a lot worse if she had been shut down. It would also be much worse if we had reduced national security, or the safety of nuclear danger, to the work of people who are unprofessional, because you will allow me to support what the representatives of the Green Party have said. The Democratic Party of Serbia was the first to comment on the machinations and work of Serbia's nuclear facilities. She was against having them set up. It is better to trust experts to do their job and control what they are doing, whether they are means and how they place those funds, than to let this dangerous and important area for this country go unworked. It was the intensity of these amendments, which we made as MPs of the DSS, and it's about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2333	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment submitted an amendment to Article 2. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Ružica Igic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment submitted an amendment to Article 3. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This amendment to Article 3 is in fact in line with the previous amendments submitted by the DSS MPs. It is said that we are asking that the law states that the ministry which is responsible for protecting against ionising radiation and nuclear security also delivers an annual report on the implementation of the programme, as set out in Article 1 of this Law, to the Assembly, or to the committee responsible in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say, we're very confused about why an amendment like this would ever be rejected by the government. We think that it is good and it has shown that when the law states that a ministry or a state institution has an obligation to send half-yearly, or annual reports, to the committees responsible, or to the Assembly that this is a much better practice than when the Assembly has to intervene and to look for those reports. It is a practice that MPs are informed of all things in good time. The matter of how these institutions do their job takes everyone in time to be informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2335	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2336	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, on this amendment, Green Serbia has sought information of public importance several times over the past two years from the public company "Nuclear facilities of Serbia" and we have been very often rejected. We think it's very important to know how to do it, what to do. This time, at least as MPs, we have that right. The Environment Committee has requested and will be asked to be kept informed on a regular basis. Because there's three hangars out there, you have one hangar nobody's been in for 50 years and the question is do you know what's in that hangar? There's been a problem with the security service. I ask another question – if one public company that we pay from the Serbian budget, from the citizens' budget, charges one nuclear research institute some of its services, which is also on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, isn't that a little embarrassing? We are not establishing a public enterprise to earn money in the state, but to improve the lives of citizens and to protect, above all, the health of our citizens. When it comes to nuclear security, we still have a lot of work to do. I hope this time it will be tighter control and the government will take care of what's going on there. When you type on Google: Serbia's nuclear facilities, only bad information about the company will come out. There won't be a single noble thing they've done in these two years, only scandals, malfeasances, etc. It's all written in the paper. Please put it under control. Now that we've left that company, let it do what it was founded for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2337	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, let's move on. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 5. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does he want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment with a correction to Article 7. Does anyone want a word? (No) We don't have an opinion here. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment with a correction to Article 8. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 9. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does he want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, submitted an amendment with a correction to Article 10. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 11. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 12. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 13. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 14. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 15. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 16. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 17. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 18. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Protection of the Environment You have received an amendment submitted by MP Ivan Karic on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is based on Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Ivan Karic. According to Article 163(4), point 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since this was the only amendment to this bill, the National Assembly will, according to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the voting day, decide on the draft law in general. We move on to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Chemical Laws You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Donka Banović, Ružica Igić, Milica Vojić-Marković and Dr Nenad Popovic, as well as the Committee on Environmental Protection. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Environmental Protection. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Ruzica Igic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. The word is wanted by the MP, Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2338	Mr. Chairman, when you work very quickly, then you open up terribly large and dangerous legal gaps. The number of amendments submitted by the Committee and the number of sessions that the Committee had, after all, for these few days, the number of these sessions is six, shows in fact how many of these legal gaps are opened when working this way and at this rate. The DSS was of the opinion that the Chemical Agency should remain, that it should not be touched, given the importance and the detachment of its work which is both precise and thus precise matter and impact, after all, and in that law on biocidal agents, and it will eventually be opened here when it is shown. On the other hand, one appears, not just legal, but one life gap. What's gonna happen? We abolished the tax code, we gave jurisdiction to the ministry responsible for this job, we didn't give the minister the space to determine these taxes, and until the new law is passed, life has to go, companies have to work, and I don't know how it's going to end. We felt it was much better for this agency to remain, but we reacted to this bill, we made certain amendments. It is wise that you have accepted these amendments, they will certainly improve what is written here, and we hope that in the future we will be able to influence in this way in the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2339	Proposal to add a new member. The amendment with the correction, which is proposed to add a new member of the 3a after Article 3, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with a correction in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment with a correction to become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ms. Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2340	Mr. Chairman, I find it interesting to explain all these laws that have come out of the area, of course environmental protection, was why they are planning to be implemented in this way is to reduce citizens, reduce costs, reduce taxes, do this or that, and when we have submitted in this chemical law an amendment to verify the data from the chemical file, as well as to assess the risk reduction measures and method of systematic monitoring of the substance that causes concern, does not pay with compensation, then our amendment does not adopt. This shows the consistency of those who have proposed such a law and the consistency of those who speak of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2341	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ms. Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2342	The exact same thing that we proposed not to pay compensation for the extension of the traffic permit and the permits to use particularly dangerous chemicals, and the legislator said, of course, our reason was to reduce the costs of legal persons in order to facilitate business and employment in Serbia. The legislator did not adhere to his ethics and did not consider this to be acceptable. In any case, these are very good indicators of intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2343	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 15th amendment with the correction, MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, tabled an amendment with a correction to Article 15. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, tabled an amendment proposing that new members 15a and 15b be added after Article 15. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search with all amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Moving to point 15. - Proposal for a law amending the Water Law. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Ivan Karic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ivan Karić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2344	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the most fundamental question is do you know when a country defends itself against floods? Well, then when it's dry, not when it's floods. When the floods are systems can't work unless they're prepared to take over the flood wave and protect us from the floods. Do you know that, in fact, in local self-government, the biggest problems and the greatest possibilities for defending against floods are created? Our floods just took place in local self-government. We had a lot of problems both during 2009 and during 2010. Belgrade was defended for two years only because it was well-hazarded by the embezzlements and misery that had been done 30 and 40 years ago, and we had problems in eastern Serbia, we had problems in southern Serbia, we had problems because people lack local water management plans. Local flood defense plans on second-class waters and this tax that we're abolishing, 50% of that tax went to the locals. What colleagues from the DSS have been talking about since the beginning of this session is just that neglecting local self-government. They are very often not technically trained, and even when we take away the little money that has come to them, it will certainly be very difficult to defend against the floods. It will be very difficult to defend itself against fires and even when other services are involved in the jurisdiction of the water industry and unprofessionally. For two years, we have witnessed that a service that will later be spoken of, which is very well defending the state against fire, but unfortunately does not defend it from floods, has interfered with the defence against floods and many of the problems in the region of Serbia have been caused by the intricacies of the service that has been involved in the protection of floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2345	Thank you. He has the word Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2346	The reason for the elimination of these flat-rate benefits is because these fees paid for using water are much more than the six we've abolished. If you look at the Water Act in detail, you'll see that there are a lot of these fees. We haven't noticed in the previous period, and you're confirming to us that also collecting these revenues helped local self-government to create these protective walls and that this money was used for these very purposes, and citizens, farmers, the economy, paid for it. We believe that the defence against floods should be financed seriously from the general revenue of the budget for the exact purpose of defending against floods, such as the principle of emergency situations where we will have a special budget for emergency situations, to put an end to fires and everything else. So, under one, we didn't cancel all the water fees, but some of which we thought were unnecessary, because there are many and they burdened citizens and the economy, and that doesn't mean that we don't need to allocate dedicated funds to combat floods, but there are no charges necessary for that, it's enough to finance VAT revenues, for example, flood protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2347	Thank you. National MP Ivan Karic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2348	Thank you. I really appreciate it, and I like to believe everything you've told me, I'm a very often and very gullible man. But hopefully, all together, first of all, you, as the new government, will succeed in that, if you succeed in that part as well as you said, you will certainly have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2349	Thank you. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2350	I just wanted a colleague of Karic's, if he could make an addition to the compensation and even talk about the water industry, let me put it briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2351	Please, Alexandra, I think the minister was clear. Please don't open any further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2352	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2353	Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 16 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the forest laws You have received amendments that were brought by MP Dusan Petrovic to the bill. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 17 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on stoning since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in voting day to decide on a bill in general. We move to item 18 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the VINO Law You have received an amendment submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batić under the bill of law. You have received the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. We move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing VETERINARY LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in voting day to decide on a bill in general. Moving to point 20. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on judicial fees You have received an amendment that was submitted jointly by the MPs Judita Popović, Ivan Andrić and Kenan Hajdarevic to the bill. You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendment. On the basis of Article 163(2), the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is set out in Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected, as an incomplete amendment to Article 4, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. According to Article 163(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since no more amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in voting day to decide on a bill in general. Moving to agenda 21. – Proposal for a Law amending the air traffic law The National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, in voting day, decide on a bill in general. We move to item 22 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Paths since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, in voting day, decide on a bill in general. We move to item 23 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Marković and Donka Banović on the bill. You have received the opinion of the Government and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2354	Thank you, Mr. Arsenović. We have submitted four amendments, I think there are 11 amendments to the Emergency Act. The essence, and the rationale of these amendments, is also that I will not report by any amendment, but I will now simply explain why we have submitted these amendments. We have also explained that we believe that the safety of citizens is at stake if all these proposed amendments to the Emergency Law are accepted. So we've been changing some laws for a few days now, under the firm that the state is going to make some huge savings in the budget, etc., that the situation in economic terms will be facilitated. But we think these changes are very dangerous. The legislator abolishes the obligation for investors to provide shelters or other protective facilities, in accordance with the urban plan. So, under the current law, investors have an obligation to build a shelter or a different space for the protection of the population, and if they do not want or cannot, then they have an obligation to pay 2% of the total investment in JP "Serbs of Serbia", and then this public enterprise, which has practically one and a basic task, which is to make sure, whether it maintains existing shelters and facilities or creates new facilities. So it's a company that's practically financed by these funds. So, under the firm to make some savings, even insurance companies are also released from the payment obligation 5% of the premiums paid also to the Fund. If you end it all, I ask you who will and how will build new shelters and protection facilities and who will maintain it and how will it be? They were heard in the conversation, say, with people from places who are insufferable, say – these public enterprises, they're nothing, public enterprises "Secrets", so they don't really do and do their job, or, that's the experience of some local self-government, but then it's another problem, then they need to see how this public business is doing that job, which is why there is. So if you adopt these changes to the law, then you are really jeopardizing the security of every Serbian citizen. I don't think I need to remind you of the history Serbia and all citizens of Serbia have. I can't even imagine how many times it's been in the last 100 years, to take this most drastic example of a security threat, how many times Serbia has been bombed. Well, I am in my 40s and a few years because I lived in Sarajevo, I spent time both in shelters and in Sarajevo and in 1999, when Serbia was bombed by our great NATO friends, spending time in shelters in Serbia when Serbia was attacked by the NATO Pact. You've all experienced this bombing, too, and you've probably spent time in shelters. So I took this most drastic example, of course, there are other situations where the security of Serbian citizens can be compromised. What you're saying is that now it's going to make this much easier for investors, I don't think that's true, because if someone invests five million euros in an object, then he really has the money to build a suitable shelter or if he can't or won't, then he's going to give the state a shelter for his citizens. I won't answer any more questions about this, but I think you should think about it if you intend to save here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2355	I'm informing the DSS MPs' club that your time has been spent. You're only entitled to those two minutes per amendment, so please respect that. Thank you very much. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs MilicaMilica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word wants the MP of the people, Ms. Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2356	Chairman, we simply have to remind ourselves, and I think it's time to remind ourselves that we are aware that the savings are necessary and that they are very important to our country, but the promoter has to take care not to endanger the security of citizens. My colleague Donka Banovic has drawn attention to the fact that if this is lifted we will remain simply without the possibility of building new shelters, and existing shelters, many of which are in a really poor state, will have no one to maintain. Of course, when we talked about that VAT on babies, we said we had to make a difference between the children of poor parents and the children of wealthy parents. The investors are mostly very, very rich people here and it's interesting that we take care of them so we don't overload them, and in that previous case, we just came into a situation where if the kids are standing in line for a hot meal or whatever, we're gonna skip that rich parent's kid. It is an interesting approach to the government as a legislator of this law. He's interesting because he doesn't stick to principles. The principle is somehow from case to case, and to us it's not simply the way we think. We think we need to take care of what the citizens are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2357	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2358	I have to say, it's still two different things. Rich people individuals are one thing, and investors are another thing entirely. Investors are not just the ones who build construction buildings. It's been requested that whoever's running some kind of drive, the hall, he has to pay a shelter fee. We need to stimulate people as much as possible to build factories, to hire people, not to pay them taxes, and of course to fund emergency situations and defenses directly from the budget. We'll have a budget for emergency situations, and we won't fund it by charging taxes to those who invest. That's the point. Here when we talked about the VAT vomit for babies, it was about individuals, about rich people. When the company invests, whatever company invests and builds factories should be encouraged, not to charge extra taxes, so we took off this shelter tax, while the emergency budget will continue to exist, but it will be charged from the general revenues of the state, so it won't run out of function.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2359	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2360	Okay, this is actually a formal replica. What we're trying to say is that we think you could have handled this better. You mention investment in the economy, so now let's free those who invest in the construction of business facilities. Then it could have been different, too, to get rid of, so to say that someone who builds that and that, something that will hire people, are built and magnificent buildings, etc., all privately owned, and then these apartments are really sold at some enormous prices. Now, when this is all even, maybe you didn't have time to make this more serious approach to this problem, then you shouldn't have freed them from this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2361	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 24th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Energy Law. You have received the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2362	Dear Chairman, I will speak two minutes per amendment, and the rest of the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Mr. Minister, the DSS in principle supports the concept that surplus agencies, offices and administrations, which were founded in previous years, are reducing the good part of them to be abolished, and that these transactions are transferred to the Ministry in accordance with the government's definition of more rational treatment towards budgets, according to taxpayers' funds. There we really have an understanding of certain moves that both your ministry and the entire government have proposed to amend these laws, but we think that in the draft law amending the Energy Act, which essentially has only one significant provision, which is the abolition of the Energy Efficiency Agency, we think you made a mistake. I will try to convince you in my explanation that this thing is not working, because I think there are many reasons why the Agency for Energy Efficiency should be independent and do much more and much wider jobs than it has done so far because Serbia has the lowest degree of energy efficiency in Europe, and probably among the lowest in the world. Western European countries spend less than 100 kilowatt hours of energy per square metre annually. In our country, consumption ranges from 150 to 180 kilowatts per metre square. Out of the total energy consumption in Serbia, nearly half spend citizens in their apartments, and even 65% of the energy is related to heating. I don't need to explain further a general state of isolation and energy efficiency in our construction industry, especially when it comes to heating. You know that almost 90% of buildings, especially private ones, don't have a well done insulation in buildings, and they're literally energy wasters. A specific energy consumption, for example, in Denmark is 96 kilos per square in the heating season. In Serbia, it moves about 230 kilowatts per metre square metre in public buildings, those which are, say, quite well isolated, in private houses it moves up to over 300 kilowatts per metre square. Energy consumption in some sectors is even 4-5 times greater than Western countries. Therefore, our economy produces goods that are not competitive, households pay bigger bills, while the state gives more money for imports of electricity, gas and other energy products. So we became world champions in irrational energy consumption, zak and public debate. We spend 50% more energy on public lighting than the EU countries. The budget rebalancing envisions a total of around 19m dinars for the Energy Efficiencies Agency. I said at the beginning that we support the concept that no agencies, duplicate agencies, offices and similar organisational continents, which were formed earlier years, should be abolished, to transfer jobs to the ministry to make savings. We don't understand how you didn't get into your eyes, let's say that you abolish the Office of the National Council for Decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, 32 million, the Office for Co-operation with Civil Society 38 million, the Office for Legislative Reform, the analysis of the effects of the 18 million regulations, the Office for the Audit of the EU Fund Management System 38 million, the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs 33 million. We have the Administration to determine the capacity of ships to sail, watch out, special management to determine ship navigation, which spends on an annual level of 42 millin, and parallel to that we have a waterway directorate, which spends a lot more. I think it could have been more rational to merge some of it, not to abolish the Energy Efficiency Agency. What's the agency's job? In addition to some projects that should be approved, the Agency should also spread awareness of the rational use of energy. I agree that one of the reasons that probably led you was that the Agency for Energy Efficiency was not doing a job that was established over the years, that it had to be far more efficient and public and to implement a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, which in itself foresees that an energy efficiency fund that would have started a 40m-euro asset, which would have been enough to start to give favourable loans, primarily to citizens for the isolation of their facilities, to change technologies in industries and similar things, in order to reduce the energy consumption rate by at least one part. Only economically poor countries, not sufficiently educated, underdeveloped and energy-dependent spend this much energy and don't care about it. I don't think we have the right to do that. I'm not saying that now these jobs, which were to be carried out by the Energy Efficiency Agency, especially in the marketing sense, will be constantly popularizing this way of preserving energy, to be completely abolished. I see here that you've predicted that these future jobs will only be done by the Ministry and have a special department for that, but I believe that the ministry, apart from a lot of the jobs it needs to do, will not properly consider this specific area. Experts have calculated that only in the area of construction, if we invest to isolate all the facilities, so as not to degrade energy, we can preserve the energy capacity of a Nikola Tesla thermal power plant. I don't need to remind you what capacity these are, how much electricity it spends, or produced by Nikola Tesla's Termopower plant. Given that in the last month a very current story about building new energy capacities has been very current, I think that this is how Serbia can, first of all, reduce its energy consumption, so it doesn't waste money, because the waste of energy is being wasted and the money is not going to build new capacities before it has exhausted its internal capacity. These internal resources are currently lying in energy efficiency. I suppose your answer will be that you have predicted that these jobs are being done within the Ministry but I ask you to keep this in mind when the draft budget is being made for next year, to predict a lot more resources and to come up with a way to stimulate energy efficiency. To finally put into operation the Energy Efficiency Fund to promote these activities, which will give people incentives to install energy-efficient devices, to isolates etc., etc. You can even think about reducing taxes on insulation materials and similar things that can lead to energy-efficient objects. This will certainly encourage people to do so, and the end result will be a positive effect for both the state and the citizen individually. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2363	Sign up, please. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2364	The Honorable Chairman and last time I called, however, since it was after Mr. Minister's presentation, then I really thank you for not giving me your word, but now as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism, Trade and Energy, I wanted to explain why we did not accept this amendment and why the concept of shutting down this agency in the first place. First, it was founded in 2002 under a government regulation, but the essence of its establishment was not achieved. She was supposed to represent the regulatory body. She never was. She was simply founded with one advisory character. So that's where the mistake was made when it was founded. Secondly, it was set up by the European Agency for Development and Funding of a three-year project. The second part of the story is that there are eight employees, the salary fund you listed, you saw in the budget rebalance, meaning 15 to 18 million a year, and there are no prescribed fees from which it would be financed. Therefore, it is then on the budget, representing an unsustainable financial structure. It's on one side. On the other hand, both rights and obligations were abolished during 2004, practically, to the agency. So, in the end, she remained as one legal person seeking funding from the budget in the current situation, and on the other hand there is no authority to fund and work with. What's good is she became a member of international organisations, so the European Energy Efficiency Agency. This kind of activity, there's got to be some body in the state that's supposed to work. But we think that at this point in time with the budget rebalance, it cannot function financially and should be abolished at this point, and for the future, ultimately, it should define who and how it will work within the Ministry, which is, of course, given in the amendments and additions to the Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2365	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2366	I don't think we understand each other well enough. First, the agency was established in 2002 by a precise regulation, but in 2004, the Energy Act, 2009 and 2010 amended the Energy Act and the new Energy Act, precisely established its legal position and its jurisdiction. It's not true that she was supposed to be a regulatory body. What does the Energy Efficiency Agency have to do as a regulatory body? It has an obligation to promote programmes, to finance projects, it is true that it has received funds and was founded by the funds that were received as donations, but to begin with, these were sufficient funds further. In order for this problem to be fully seen and to promote energy efficiency as the most rational form of energy use, it is necessary to deal with it. You're saying now that it was irrational to spend 18 million, does that mean you're gonna fire all people? I don't think so. So they'll move on to the ministry and spend the same money. So, the same 18 million will cost, or slightly less, maybe for a directorial post or something, might be 15 million for wages, but the bottom line is, you said that the agency has become a member of many international organisations, now that the agency is shut down, the ministry can't be a member of international organisations. He can't. So, I think it's a specific area and that a lot more funding, not for people's salaries, if a large number of people in that agency are doing, you cut down, but the jobs it needs to deal with promoting the philosophy of rational use of energy and incentives to build on what I've been saying – efficient devices and house isolation should be much greater. In this respect, credit support, interest reduction, tax reduction on these materials should also be available in order to raise awareness of the rational use of energy. After all, the rational use of energy is directly linked to the conservation of the environment, to healthy air, to natural resources that this country does not have, etc. I think the story is much more complex and we're not going to save any significant money by shutting down this story, and putting it in a seal to be part of the ministry's work which, apart from many jobs, is the question of how much it can deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2367	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I beg you for one, first of all, apology. Ms Milica Vojic Markovic was intervened on one amendment, on article 15. The chemical law, so I'd read it about him, too, to discuss it. The 15th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Thank you for respecting my apology. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to point 25 – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Functioning of the Republic of Serbia for 2012. YEAR, with the proposals for decisions to agree on amendments and additions to the 2012 financial plans: the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milan Lapčević, Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Miroslav Petkovic, Natasa Vukković, Mirko Cvetković, Srdjan Miković, Aleksandar Pejčić, Janko Vjevinović, Milisav Petronijevic, Riza Halimi, Marko Jakšić, Srdjan Šin, Petar Petković, Milica Radović, Ružica Igić, Zorica Gajic and Mile Spirovski, as well as the Committee for Finance, the Republic budget and control of public funds. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. National MP Mile Spirovski withdrew both amendments to article 5, which he submitted on 18 September 2012, and MP Srdjan Shin withdrew the amendment to article 5, which he submitted at 10:15 p.m. on 19 September 2012. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, on the basis of Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments by the People's MPs Milan Lapčević as members of 5th and Aleksandr Pejcic on Article 5. According to Article 163(4), Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2368	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Minister, unemployment in Serbia is the biggest problem this country has and it is no philosophy whatsoever. We all know that and all the parties in the campaign have dealt mostly with this issue as primary. During this election campaign, we heard various ideas that could reduce unemployment in our country. According to data, nearly 26% of Serbian citizens are unemployed, unemployment increased by almost 4% compared to 2011 and doubled from April 2008, when the rate was 13.7%. Now, though, there are those traps with the methodologies, so depending on what kind of methodology you're using, you have different data. In any case, one thing we won't argue about is that a huge number of our fellow citizens are unemployed and that the state really needs to deal with this problem in the most serious way possible. We have suggested that, in addition to these systemic measures that should be set free, employers are encouraged to create new jobs, in terms of what we have proposed, parafiscal burdens and other things, on the one hand, but we felt that in the budget itself, or budget rebalancing for this year, we have items that are provided for in unrealisticly high amounts. We believe that the topic of thinking is that part of the funds contained in the item "other transfers", non-purpose transfers from four billion to 900 million to a billion and a half, and that the same is the increase in funds that will be transferred to the National Employment Service for some three billion and 400 million dinars, so that the National Employment Service can succeed in part of those programmes it has foreseen for this year and implement. You probably know that there have been different ways in the National Employment Service's plan and work programme to encourage job hires for beginners, small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts, etc. There's a lot of what's been called for during the election campaign, of course, the motive is clear, to popularize the work of the authorities, but that all that's left at the beginning and that very few people have managed to use those funds, because the figures were also very limited. Given that there are a large number of projects submitted to the National Service, there is reason to think that people have an idea of how to hire themselves or to open up a new job, but they need help. In this sense, our amendment went, that where it is not necessary, and we think that in non-purpose transfers it is not necessary to stand so much money, that these funds are re-scheduled to the National Service and we try, there won't be much time in these three months, but yet it's our advice, to think about the next year, to define as much funding as possible for employment, self-employment or employment support as possible from those larger entities that employ a larger number of people. I think it makes sense to think about adopting this amendment, so I invite you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2369	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2370	As a representative on this agenda. The Democratic Party of Serbia voiced its opinion on the law and measures during the rebalancing debate and stressed its support for some measures. It is simply time for Serbia, this parliament and the government to propose some measures that will allow some of the problems that Serbia is in and the crisis in which we find ourselves easier and faster to solve. What we didn't have time to talk about then are a few things, which is primarily a deficit, which is further increased by this bill and is significantly increasing. We as well as all citizens of Serbia should worry that the deficit will be covered. The rebalancing proposal also provides for the way in which we have witnessed all these years since 2008 and so far, during the self-called Socially Responsible Government, covered the deficit. This, above all, was covered by the printing of securities of value, whether in dinar or foreign exchanges, which were heavily burdened by the budget and were printed in a manner, which is a kind of borrowing, without parliament, or without the possibility of parliamentaryly controlling this type of borrowing. We think it's not good, and we'll talk about it more when the amendment comes. What we're interested in, which is that the budget is covered by, or additionally in debt, and a new deficit is being created in the budget to cover, say, the liquidity of "Srbigas". That's an extra 170m euros. We have testified that Minister Zorana Milanović Mihajlovic herself has said that the business of "Serbiagas" and the debts that have arisen will be reconsidered. According to information we have from the public, the debt of "Srbigas" ranges between 850m euros and a billion euros, depending on the source, depending on the methodology and how the debt counts. The government should have taken more account of how to rationalise the costs of certain companies. We have now set an example of "Serbigas", and there are many other companies and almost all public enterprises have debts. The government covers a bunch of these debts and is guaranteed not only by the public but also by some private companies for their debts. It's just amazing for us that it didn't start to cut costs first and see and make an insight into the business of public enterprises before it started to take new loans, no less or less, in this case, of 170m euros to cover the liquidity of "Srbigas". It'll probably be an excuse - to get gas for the upcoming heating season. Certainly, Serbia needs gas for the upcoming heating season, and no one can dispute it, but it should simply look at the costs of all public enterprises, including "Srbigas". The other thing we're interested in here is, is there a control being carried out, and is the rebalancing envisaged to control the costs incurred in Vojvodina, based on the provisions of the laws that the Constitutional Court has put out of force? According to what we know, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is still in effect, although it is in effect and therefore the executioner must not always apply. (President: I ask the People's MP to stick to the amendment after all. What? (President: Stick to the amendment. Don't, it's in principle a debate. Now there's a debate in detail. No, I'm talking about rebalancing. As a proposing representative, I can talk about all costs. I am authorized in front of the parliamentary group and as representative of the parliamentary group, I can talk about the rebalancing and cost and deficit that arises (President: Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, we are now discussing the law in particular. The debate on principles is over. Now we're discussing it. No, it is. I'm talking about details... (President: To be clear, you listen to me, then, maybe I'm wrong. Now we're discussing amendments. A specific amendment has been made to the corresponding member and please. ) Well, then I'll ask you a question in particular for rebalancing. I know, now you're asking a question... ) Will the budget of the Republic of Serbia provide funds for the financing of the National Park of Fruska Gora or will it go beyond the budget of the province's government? Will Serbia's citizens' funds go out to finance the APV office in Brussels? These are two issues that are part of the debate in particular. (President: Please, you are putting me in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure, and I really want to be tolerated and to respect you extremely. Wait a minute, please. I don't want to, and I don't want to drive out any Dril here. We'll make a nice deal, be sure. We'll make a deal, man. But you're asking questions that aren't about the amendment. I know it's interesting and it's okay, but I'll tolerate you now, you finish, but please, simply, let's be in progress and we're in progress. Here you go. ) I, as an authorised representative, can speak in the time that I have 15 minutes to discuss amendments in particular, so, for the debate on the law in particular, I can talk about all amendments and that is how it stands in the Rules of Procedure, as far as I know. (President: You know it well that you can't.) ) Well, I'll talk about the details then, since we're talking about rebalancing revenues and expenditures, and that's the theme of this agenda point, both in principle and in particular. (President: Please, Mr. Michael, I think you're a very experienced MP. As I recall, you've been in parliament for a long time. I know you're a very educated man and I know you know we're talking about the amendment here right now. Don't argue in principle. You can't. Take article 158. The Rules of Procedure - a detailed search is carried out on the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and on the amendments proposed to the introduction of new provisions. We'll be back on the subject. I will ask and use this opportunity to ask the relevant Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give me an interpretation, at the first session of the competent assembly committee, whether the authorised representative on a specific agenda point, when discussing amendments, can talk about all amendments? (President: I know, but you're asking questions now. You can take it in writing, please. ) Of course, we're going to ask for an interpretation, because so far it wasn't the case. Even in the previous term when the Rules of Procedure applied much more rigorously in this assembly, when it was applied here, unfortunately, Mrs Comic and the others are not present here. So much more rigid, and that was allowed. I'm surprised your approach, but fine. I'll use my time on all other amendments, but I just want to say that, given the expenditures of the budget that are going on – covering debts, expenditures that we have to cover public enterprises' debts, we raise VAT on babies, for child equipment, we raise taxes that affect the largest layer of citizens, so that we can cover some of the irrational costs that are incurred in public enterprises. It's just, on the ethical side, we don't think it's the best. We'll talk about it further through the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2371	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2372	Also as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I'll talk about this amendment, or his idea. The idea of fellow MPs was to strengthen the fight against unemployment in some ways. They proposed this in one way, with more money in the budget being allocated to the National Employment Service. We don't think that service has produced any results so far, because it's not possible that one state institution, i.e. Budgetary, do something that's the job of the entire state, precisely because we don't see in this proposal the total measures that the state has to take. For us, this whole rebalancing, at the very end of the line, is unacceptable. We can't see he's being trafficked by any amendments. I have to say that, in addition to this proposed solution, it wouldn't have made a certain kind of difference, as I would say, and I've been trying to find another word, but I haven't been able to, as a matter of fact, to make this proposal unfair, the whole rebalancing proposal. It is based on one demand from the state's victim of citizens. This victim is looking into raising VAT. It's something that every citizen of this country will feel a few times a day, or a dozen times in their lives. On the other hand, our country has not shown this time any willingness to sacrifice something of its own advantage, of its conformity or habit that has existed in this country for decades. That's what I'm gonna say. Regardless of this amendment, even if the government had accepted it, the systemic disease would have remained. I have to say that what we expected after this huge campaign about a new rebalancing and a new approach is not just a set of measures that help a part of our economy, which is, more or less, incontrovertible. We were expecting it. And, of course, we didn't expect a government that, in its own words, existed for 50 or 60 days, to give concrete and final solutions. We really expected the government to at least make a clear promise that it would go into structural reform of what is the biggest problem of our budget and of our country. One thing, of course, is that thing that we're constantly arguing about and currently and chairing and we're a few years back. It's a pension fund. Whether this government has the intention to promise us as a previous one, which every time the budget or the rebalancing was on the agenda, has promised that – here we are about to start reforming the PIO Fund, we are organizing, we are doing something, here goes the full mandate of the reform there is nothing left except that some people may have seen and done something mostly in vain. Now I ask the question, regardless of the increase in the resources that colleagues are proposing for the Employment Service, will the government predict until when, can we hear specifically for some time, some place, when it will start to reform the PIO Fund? The second topic, these are subsidies, so-called subsidies. public enterprises or all enterprises that we can call so in the widest possible form. So I'm thinking of all 700 that exist at this point. What's the government's plan? Is the plan to continue to grant subsidies until we've exhausted everything we've got until we sell it? The minister announced that the state would even sell its assets to cover the deficit Is the plan that everything we have is going to be given without anything changing there? That is why we insisted on this programme or the process of departisation, the professionalisation of the public sector. I don't want to quote an informal meeting with the minister, the other day, in front of the assembly when we met and discussed again, and of course that's always the intention, but we're asking you what's been done now? The first appointments do not instill confidence if companies are publicly divided according to the party, according to coalition agreements. It's not about man's ability to manage something. The topic is because it is then the subject of every kind of political trade between the parties of power. Which means in our particular case, we witnessed the previous government, that it is impossible to implement the reform in a public company. As an opposition, we had to warn that the former prime minister here has criticised a railway that has not been reformed in the past four years. The director of the railroad was a high-ranking official of his party. I'll remind you, it may still be, I don't know if it's changed, but in such a card split, of course it's not possible to reform these companies and of course it's a problem if the state doesn't have the budget money for their 12th salary. They don't work for the Serbian government, they work for some company, and we understand that at some point this company might go badly, but we're asking you how long can it go wrong? What's the plan to stop that disaster? I said it once. I don't want to be unfair to the railroad. This applies to all public enterprises. (President: Mr. Andric, please return to the amendment, now they are not public enterprises. ) I know that the topic is nothing that does not suit the ear of the ruling majority. I know, but if we're gonna do that... ) Unfortunately, it is an unemployment generator and I don't think it solves the problem with this amendment. I'm just explaining what our proposal is and how to handle it. It may not be good for you, but what can I do? That's right. Complete and at this point, I don't know if that's how it's gonna be, lack of a plan. When we asked, why are there no other members of the ruling coalition? It wasn't about our desire to watch Dacic or Wolf here. That shouldn't be a subject any more or less. Since the minister made it very clear in some moments that there will be reform of these systems that I have asked a question about. The representatives of the two of them either didn't say anything or said something quite the opposite. In this we see a dilemma in the intentions of the ruling coalition. A dilemma that had to be solved here, not to argue about whether it was a topic, whether a head of a parliamentary group has the right to talk about this or that. He has the right to speak for 15 minutes. Those 15 minutes, we're talking about the law. We're not talking about anyone in person. Also, let's get back to rebalancing, the Duke's question. This is the question – how is it possible for the government to make a decision, I will not talk about the figures, it will be my colleague Judita Popovic, when the amendment comes to order, that in a situation where the political situation is absolutely heated in Vojvodina. The Constitutional Court has annulled some jurisdiction. We have witnessed a political war around the capital of Vojvodina – Novi Sad and you are now making a proposal by which these revenues, which the state is not or is always late or with no idea what breaks it has paid for, will be further reduced. It is clear that it will cause a political crisis or at least deepen it in the AP. Nothing else that's going on around this debate has convinced us there's an even more serious plan. If you're going to manage to cover this deficit with a loan from Russia, that shouldn't be a topic. If it's already a topic, you've been telling the ministers about the truth, so let's talk about the truth and we're talking, why isn't that money found by the World Bank and the IMF, or what is it they're asking to give us money? When we talk about it, we can have opposing political views, but then tell us what the Russian side is looking for to give us money. Does he ask us not to change, to keep everything the way it is? Is that our interest, then? Or is it our interest that if we are already asking citizens to submit a sacrifice of price increases due to an increase in value added tax, is it the interest of each of us, but also of the Serbian Government, to come here with a clear plan of what will the state save on? As for the crisis, which is also mentioned in this amendment, my impression is that anyone who cares about himself or the family when the moment of crisis comes somehow draws some kind of line, stops, gathers, calculates, and sees what he can and can't do. In my opinion, and in the opinion of our parliamentary group, our country has not acted that way. She found the culprit. It is located in several DS people, whose heads will be on the front page every day, that they stole this and that, have already been convicted and expelled. We'll see if there's anything in the future. We didn't go any further than the guilty one did. Does the state behave more rationally today than at the time of these same people? No, I don't. It's been established, it could be called a positive step, that we have a problem, but we didn't start to solve it. We said since we can't borrow money by solving this problem, because there's no willingness in the government to deal with the IMF and other institutions, not yours, but the government, then we're going to borrow money from someone whose interest isn't in it, but those countries will disappear, too. They'll come to collect their interests. My question – what is this next step? I can simplify this, I don't think any extra money to any government agency or any government authority at this point can be given until we see concrete plans to save on everything that the state is doing today. I'm going to ask you a question that citizens are asking us, you think about that answer, did the state at this point give up doing something that we all feel is not necessary at this point? I'm telling you that only in stopping such actions can we find a solution to many things. In order for that to happen, we have to have a political consensus about it. That's why our objections went in that direction that you haven't consulted on budgeting any other parliamentary group or these are consultations. We're here, more or less, you can see, all of us in some kind of trenches. I'm telling you, concrete plans are what we expect of you. I believe you know how to put together a budget, send memos to the ministries, they can return it to you, and then argue with every ministry, not give as much as they ask, and that's all right. Probably, since you're more energetic, if nothing else, you'll be more effective than the former finance minister. What we're interested in is, if we're asked to support that citizens give money to the government, and the government gives it to the PIO Fund, the Health Fund, the railways, the losers, we're asking you to establish a rule of Parliament control over what they're spending and clear plans on how and when that crisis comes out. Without it, no amendment individually, no debate in the Assembly makes sense, because we're not talking about the same level, the same things. I don't believe there's a single living man who can bring so many foreign companies into any country to solve the unemployment problem. I think there must be a system solution and it must have the support of everyone. No one has ever sincerely tried to get support in parliament for the proposal. We never saw the proposal. That's why we're resisting these measures that we talked about before. They're individual and isolated, but our entrepreneurs' problems aren't taxes, or they're one of the minor problems, and it's an honor to release some of them, but our entrepreneurs' problems are huge. They have no one to sell anything to, no one to charge from. They owe them from the state to the great, who harass them, all of them owe them, and they have no one to turn to in this, in which there is no system. It will certainly be easier for them to survive another few months without those taxis, but the end is inevitably near, because this country has no future that does not depend on how the budget is written, but what is the perspective of this society that we all belong to. Not to be rude, allow me to be the first MP to congratulate the minister on his new car. We saw you buy them yesterday. Well done. One little suggestion at the end. I saw you yesterday at the "Worker's Club" water polo as a Partisan fan, and I want you to look forward to it like "Worker" was looking forward to last year in basketball. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2373	Does Minister Dinkic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2374	I thank you for your good wishes. You've given an amendment to take down 3.3 billion dinars, that is to say, according to that amendment, that it should take down 3.3 billion dinars in the name of the purchase of drugs, medical equipment for health institutions and increase the budget of the National Employment Service. We don't agree with that amendment, and that's why we turned it down. Because of what you said, you had a chance to listen when we had a general debate and you heard that the government has a completely clear plan, and if you haven't realized by now that this is a whole new policy, then I'll tell you again. So, what is this new policy? The new policy consists of giving the assembly a set of 28 laws after 45 days. We're removing 138 parafiscal duties. We're increasing the agricultural budget by 60%. We interrupt the practice that something promised to farmers in one year is paid off next year, which took place in the term of the previous government. Did we give up on something? That's what you asked me directly. Of course, the Environment Fund has been abolished, because the money intended for ecology has been spent on some unnecessary consumption. We've abolished some other institutions. We've abolished all our own revenues from all the ministries, it's the biggest system reform that's ever happened in our budget system lately. As for Vojvodina, let me say immediately that this year the basis for the transfer to the AP Vojvodina is 750 billion dinars. Under the new Budget System Act, where there are no more own revenues, the basis next year will be 820 billion dinars. I can say that today, unlike my predecessors who couldn't even say that at the Assembly's meetings when they passed the Budget Law for another year, for the reason that Vojvodina's revenues will now be predictable, because they are based exclusively on tax revenues and not on insufficient transparency and uncertainty. non-tax revenue. It's an increase in the base for next year and the base, I repeat again, of these minimum 7% will be 820 billion dinars. As for the IMF issues, and they have one problem, their problem is that they don't know how to end the arrangement they made with the previous government, which essentially didn't have any successful stages. It was formally concluded about a year ago and the first revision was already unsuccessful. They do not now know how to justify their bosses in Washington that the arrangement must be annulled, because the budget deficit has escalated at as much as 7% of GDP, not during the government's mandate, which works 45 days, but during the government's mandate that has left, and they have concluded with the IMF that arrangement. Now an elegant solution is sought - how to make and drag small and sheep in number, but from the point of view of them. We said we were in a mood and interested in an arrangement with the IMF. There is now a small matter -- how can they cope with the interruption of this existing failed arrangement, which has with the former government, which in Serbia's name has concluded the arrangement, and it is clear to all that it cannot return to that track, not even to human efforts? So, we expect that the IMF will, in itself, be interested in talking to us about the arrangement of the moment when we publish the mid-term reform plan, which I announced on behalf of the Government here in the Assembly, and when we come out with the 2013 budget, which will cut the budget deficit, which I also announced. We believe that by the annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, which takes place in Tokyo this year, we will already have one and another plan, and that in mid-October we will adopt the government and the budget for the coming year and a concrete plan of medium-term reforms. Based on that, I believe that in the next period, when they can come, as far as we're concerned, we're open to conversations, we're going to talk about some new type of arrangement with them. I must say immediately that there is no need for you to make any kind of, at least literaryly, disagreement between co-operation with Russia and co-operation with the IMF, for the reason that in the previous period and when the arrangements were with the Russian Federation our country was working together, and that was good, both with the Russian Federation and with China and with other countries. That doesn't rule out each other. I think it is a unilateral observation that only the EU and the IMF should be co-operated with. That's not even Germany's doing it today. Neither do EU countries. He is working with both great Russia and great China and rich Arab countries, as well as with all other countries that are relevant in the world. We will do so, we will cooperate with all those who can make the Serbian people a better one. In that sense, the previous government negotiated a $800m loan for the Railways, which unfortunately, because of this, I agree with you, the bad management of the Railways, never set out to be used. Now, after the change of management, we expect it to finally start to happen, and 200 million dollars for the budget in its own time, and we had an arrangement with the IMF, which means that each other doesn't rule out. Now we're talking about granting a billion dollars to the Russian Federation for the budget, plus there's a loan left in place for the Railroad, which we intend to move on as soon as possible. We will also issue Eurobonds, we will have other bilateral loans, such as a loan with China to build highways from Belgrade to Ljiga and from Pojat to Preljina, but we will essentially seek to reduce the radical budget deficit, next year to 3.5%, then to 1.9%, and to 1% in the coming years, in order not to have the need for borrowing to finance the deficit, although there will remain the need to collect liquid money for the payment of previous debts already agreed by the time the new government is yet formed. So, any constructive criticism is welcome to the new government, any constructive proposals, which you could see for yourself because we have adopted a number of amendments that the opposition MPs have also submitted, which we will do in the future. Anyone in Serbia who wants to help Serbia get better will have full support for the entire government. You asked me a question that's half private, but it's also half public, about buying a new car. If you remember, when many did not believe that a new car would ever be produced in Serbia, in a factory in Kragujevac, only a few years ago I made a promise to be the buyer of the first car. Why did I promise that then? Because I believed in that project. Many, or even some MPs from the last congregation, were spinning their heads and saying that the project was wrong and that there would never be a realisation of the project. Especially when you were able to see those broken flags of old halls on TV, no one could assume that one day the most modern factory and the largest factory in Serbia would be gone, and this is the new Fiata factory. Then, three years ago, when I had a lot of unbelieving Toms ahead of me, I promised to be the first car buyer, because I deeply believed that the car "made in Serbia" would be produced one day in Kragujevac. That day has come. 30,000 cars will be produced by the end of the year, between 140,000 and 160,000 cars next year. That's why I kept that promise, here's when his sales started, I bought a car, I'm gonna replace the old "Pejo 206", which my wife and I have been driving for the last 12 years, and instead we're gonna have a new Fiat. But first of all, I want to support a project that will bring Serbia big exports, big revenues, and I would say again in some way industrial fame in the world, because only in Serbia is today being produced by a car that is already being sold in 100 different countries of the world. The "Yugo" never had, nor did the flag have such fate before. It was sold in America, something short in Britain, in North Africa, but never in a hundred countries of the world. This car goes everywhere. We will try to discuss in the next period the possibility of going to those markets where it is not possible to export without customs duty. In any case, we have a clear plan, so absolutely after these 45 days and after the debate that we had all this week in the Assembly, I am convinced that we will succeed in doing what Serbia expects us to do, which is to turn things around, to speed up some processes, to start the economy, and if you are fair and constructive, as you say you are, I believe that the next time we talk about the budget here, and that will hopefully be in November, about next year's budget, that you will have this in mind and praise it when it happens. So far, I can't say, you have to criticise part of the rebalancing, because I said the rebalancing was extorted. It was done by adding, what was done and spent in the first seven months, what must be added to the end of the year, in order to pay the subsidies to farmers, and to pay the railway workers, and all benefits to the unemployed and one budget rebalance was received which is objectively not good and there is no dispute about it. But it's better to put those items in the budget and give those who need it most than to keep quiet and say that it's supposed to be, I don't know where, the deficit under control, and it's actually who it is. It will be put under control, first of all, by adopting this package of laws, we knock down the deficit at about 4.5 GDP, and then, with the Budget Law for 2013, we'll cut it in half. I can understand and understand that there is a suspicion as long as the tone occurs, but this parliamentary group and this MP worked with me together in one government in 2004 and 2006. That's when we found a deficit that wasn't this big, it was 4% of GDP in 2003. We were able to turn it to plus two then, so 6% of GDP. If I could do this to my colleagues from 2004 to 2006, in three years, I am convinced that in four years I will be able to do the same thing to my colleagues from the new government, who really want Serbia to change and that citizens live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2375	Thank you very much. He's got three registered MPs. First Ivan Andric. On what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2376	It's very interesting now, because I just mentioned that car, wanting to get out of these trenches, judging by how much you praise it, you're obviously very pleased. I want you to stay. I can rephrase what I was about to say. I want you to ride with him more, not with this official one, that it lasts longer. Or what the people would say in "health to drive him." There's always a thesis. I didn't mention Russia as a country you shouldn't work with. It's very interesting that you chose that. It's interesting because we have a certain prehistory, because our two political groups fought together against an agreement that you and we thought was bad for Serbia, or that it was better. My question went that way. I just wish that no agreement that has now been signed with Russia would prove bad for Serbia in the way that this previous one has shown itself, where we have lost most of our ownership over what you and I believed, and today I believe that we have at least 50%. We're talking about South Stream. It's just that you've very precisely avoided mentioning what I've considered to be the biggest problems. Again, in this rebalance, a quarter of the budget goes as a subsidy to the PIO Fund. For the past 12 years, and probably longer, the fund has not changed and no initials make it easier for any government, or for any citizen of this country to spend money on drugs in the Agency for the Prevention of Unemployment, but to relax a part of the budget that goes as a priority every time to that fund and thus prevents the government from investing it in something that each Serbian citizen will benefit from. That doesn't mean we're against it. It just means that the law finally begins with a reform that will eventually lead, we hope, that the fund does not need a third or a quarter of the Serbian budget to have anything to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2377	Thank you. Mr. Momo Colakovic picked up the phone. On what grounds, please? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2378	Two replicas before and now. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, distinguished and respected ministers, representatives of the government, honourable MPs, who knows what time it is mentioned here, I could say freely here, the upside-down reforms of the economic system, the pension-inhabitation system, the political system, etc. No reform before the economics can produce results... .. (President: Mr. Colakovic I will not, of course, take away your word, I'm just saying that the replica can only be if someone mentioned you or recognized you in what someone was saying. ) Please, what I'm talking about, but I'm talking about you, a replica of Mr. Andric, who was talking about pension-involved insurance. (President: He didn't mention you in any way. How did he not mention it? He's literally, please take my time, he literally said nothing was done in four years. Well, isn't that recognition, to say it's done? (President: But this must personally refer to you, or to be personally recognized. Well, who does it refer to, you maybe? (Chairman: here you go, wrap it up. ) Please, the economic system must be reformed. Personally, I don't think there's anyone in this House or the people who doesn't understand it or understand it. Although we can successfully achieve this then we will easily reform the pension-inhabitation system and the health system, and the education system etc. That's the point, not to talk for four years about pensioners who say they survive. In the last four years, that is the last two years, we've passed a new Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, which yields results, and that is evident. For example, only at the position of disabled pensioners has the number of disabled pensioners been reduced by ten thousand in the last two years. Then the Central Register Act was passed which also yields results compared to the previous period... . (President: Please, Mr. Colakovic, time.) Please, you interrupted me. I'm using the MP's time group. (President: I would like to read for all MPs, because there are many new ones as you call on article 104. I'm not referring to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2379	Article 104. - if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, that is, incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If it is insulting to refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party to which MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group shall have on behalf of that parliamentary group the right to reply. On no basis do you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2380	Mr. Chairman, please hold a session as the predecessor led in accordance with democratic principles. I'm talking about the subject Mr. Andric was talking about. Why didn't you interrupt him when he talked about it? I have the right to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group. The second thing, please, I said, the central register has also been introduced over the last two years, the reform of the PIO service has been done. It increased labour efficiency by 80% compared to the previous period. That's what you should know, and the rationalization has been done that the number of employees in the service and the increased qualification structure has been reduced. The last thing I want to say is that pensions in the period since 2008 have been paid and serviced on a regular basis, it is a right acquired and pensioners have the right to do so and the law in general is also respected. Please don't talk about nothing being arranged in the reform of the pension-involved system. Chairman, I ask you to be as tolerant as the predecessor of Mr. Andric's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2381	Please, I'm only here as chairman of the Assembly. I've been sitting in the assembly for a long time. You can't take your word for it, you can always talk about what we want, there's some procedure. The procedure says that the replica is only possible if someone has offended you or misrepresented what you were saying, not that you disagree with the content of what he was talking about, which in this case was the case. I'm sorry, it's extremely correct for me, all due respect to you, you have the same rights as I do, but we can't interpret this procedure as we like it at some point, because then many other MPs will come forward, we'll spend hours here that doesn't agree with something that's said. The only privileged MP in this assembly is currently Minister Dinkic, as such is the Rules of Procedure. He can pick up whenever he wants and talk all he wants, and he's actually the only one who can do it, and every other, of course, member of the government that's in the O.R., that's the Rules of Procedure. I assume Mr. Andric wants a replica now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2382	Wrong interpretation, of course, of what I said in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure misread. Here's to... (President: I apologize to the Rules of Procedure. All right, less important. I really didn't mean you or any PUPS MP. The fact that you've identified yourself tells you that you feel responsible. I can't get into that. I wasn't absolutely thinking about you. My question was Minister, and I'll repeat it from what we just heard. If I led to that... (President: Which member, Mr. Andric? I'm still speaking in the Rules of Procedure, misreading, so I'm trying to give an interpretation of what I said, so there won't be any confusion. If I hear from a partner in the government right now, that pension fund reform was actually implemented, but that we weren't witnesses because it wasn't properly presented. I'm asking you if you're okay with it, that was the point of what I said. We disagree with that, we think that without concrete reform, among other things, and this fund of enterprises that are in restructuring, enterprises that are receiving subsidies, without the plans to leave the crisis. It's not possible to rebalance the budget to improve people's lives, that's all I said. Absolutely no suggestion to older colleagues, although, let me tell you this younger I am, and it's easier, I apologize if in any way I offended you, it was not at all an intention, I spoke to the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2383	Thank you. The word came from Balint Pastor, on what basis, Mr. Pastor?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2384	I come from the AP Vojvodina, so I won't ask for the right to reply, but I ask your permission to talk about the issue of financing the AP Vojvodina, because Minister Dinkic spoke of it... (President: For a moment, please all MPs, fully respecting the importance of what you have launched, we are talking about the law in particular, a member of the amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Dr Nenad Popović and Milan Lapcevic. In principle, here is now a discussion that has already been concluded, it is about the law in principle. I ask that everyone who speaks, if they are not replicas or interpreting the Rules of Procedure, that they speak of the amendment, everything else is out of order, I apologize. ) Mr. Chairman, please allow me what I'd like to talk about, so if you'll allow me to continue, if you don't allow me, then I'll wait for that amendment. So this is now about a united debate on the draft amending and supplementing the 2012 Budget Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on the Budgetary System. We have submitted an amendment to this second law, and I want to talk about it as the president of the SVM parliamentary group. I would speak a little earlier for two reasons, the first is that, right now, Mr. Minister started talking about the topic of funding of Vojvodina, and the second is the problem or the second reason is that, according to my information, Mr. Minister leaves the Grand Hall of the National Assembly, instead of him coming Mr. Zarko Obradovic and I have nothing to bargain with about the financing of the AP Vojvodina, meaning everything in the context of this. If you'll allow me, I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group, if we don't, we'll move on. I request your permission from the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2386	Mr. Pastor, you're like most MPs, a polite man, I don't dispute at all the importance of what you're talking about, I have a lot of sympathy and I understand what you're asking, I just need to respect some procedure here as chairman. The procedure says you can only talk about this amendment. Now I have a problem with everyone who talks, gets up and talks in principle about the problems involved in funding, not the amendment that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2387	I want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2389	Thank you very much. I would like to use the time of the president of the parliamentary group, as Mr Dinkic also spoke about the issue of the financing of the Vojvodina and since we have submitted an amendment to the proposal... (John Palalic, from the place: There is no point, you took away the word from the messenger of the people, Dejan Mihailovich. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2390	Just a minute. Respecting that my predecessor tried to ensure respect for the procedure, he failed, as apparently I failed, and then we'll let Mr. Michael finish what he started. Obviously by some silent now consent, I take away the word from no one, because I think it's very ugly in Parliament we're all the same representatives here, the ones who chose us, then when this is over, we'll give Mr. Michael the remaining time that he, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, ends up not being discriminated against by the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2391	Mr. Chairman, I do not want to introduce this new practice in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, so I am giving up the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2392	I thank you, Mr. Pastor, for the great correctness that you normally show in this assembly, whether in accordance with my promise, here is Mr. Michael and you encouraged him to do the same gesture. So I'm asking a question to all the MPs. Does anyone finally have anything to say about this amendment? The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is for Mr. Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2393	I'm reporting as an applicant for the amendment. If I exceed a little time of two minutes, take me away from that time I have as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In this amendment, we propose that funding of the budget deficit must be carried out in the most favourable and least risky way for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that, in our opinion, issuing securities from values, either on the sides, or in foreign exchanges, or in the dinars, is not the most favourable way as it has been shown so far, and that as a party, it is much better to take loans such as loans from the Russian Federation, China, at an interest rate of 3.63% on an annual basis, how much credit is from the Russian Federation or from the People's Republic of China for investments where far more favourable loans than those interest rates given for securities of value. That's between 14 and 15 percentage points on the annual level for dinar charters of value. As a party, we believe that in the previous period, the deficit has grown greatly if we bear in mind that in 2008, the country's debt was 8.7 billion euros or 28% of GDP, and in June 2012, 15.3 billion or 54.7% of GDP, i.e. the allowed limit under our 45% of GDP laws. So, when borrowing, it must be taken care of to be the most favourable and useful way of covering the deficit for the state of Serbia. I expect the government to continue the way it was with this loan from the Russian Federation, at 3.63% and try to provide other loans that would be more favourable than issuing securities than value. We also believe that issuing securities of value is a way that the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia cannot control. To the following amendments, we propose that the Assembly give consent to any government decision to approach on a specific loan or sell any type of funding bond, covering the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is very important to us that we as representatives of citizens would have the opportunity to make known about all the mechanisms available to the government to cover the deficits and see which of them is the most favourable. So that Mr. Bajatovic, as director of Serbiaagas, was not called, was not our intention, nor was I, to particularly apostrophe him, because it is a similar situation in all other public enterprises. If you take the EPS and the "Serbian Railways" to pay off the profits, if you take the Agrobank case, where the state covered the debts of Agrobanks, if you take the JAT case, which is also in debt, not to mention the "Vojvodine Development Bank", whose deficit the previous government covered with 40m euros, we are in a situation where Serbia's budget serves to cover the commitments made by management companies and banks that are partly state-owned and without any responsibility. We expect, given that these are inherited problems, to have a slightly sharper control and to establish what are real debts and what is something that is the real debt of these public enterprises as in the case of "Srbigas", which is the possibility that a part of the debt is created by citizens or businesses not paying their obligations to JP "Srbigas" under the obligation to use gas, but what is the case with "The Railways", "Agrobank", JAT, "The Development Bank of Vojvodina", EPS and all other enterprises where, simply, borrowing serves as a means of funding. We also find ourselves in a situation where these public enterprises can no longer borrow their own loans but, since no one trusts them anymore, they have no chance of giving themselves guarantees for the commitments they are taking, so that the budget has become such a general guarantee for all the debts of all the public enterprises in Serbia and at some point can seriously jeopardise Serbia's financial stability. Also, I just want to say that in 2006, when Mr Dinkic was the finance minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Republic of Serbia decided to repay the remaining IMF debt in excess of a billion dollars and thus by realising that decision, Serbia became a country with a relatively low external debt, which at that time was 8.7 billion euros, which was at that time for all countries in the environment and for Serbia was one amount that did not overly burden the budget and did not burden the economy. So what our interest is is that all future borrowings are taken or done in a way that will at least burden the Republic of Serbia's budget, at least burden the citizens. Our wish is also our interest to have an insight into how the Republic of Serbia is in debt and what the current state of debt of the Republic of Serbia is, on all grounds and on securities of value, either on the side, on the domestic foreign exchange market and on all other debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2394	Thank you. This extra time will be taken from the time of the authorised representative. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2395	Thank you, Mr. Korach. This amendment is a logical follow-up to the previous amendment proposed by the DSS, and it is very good at discussing fellow Michaels. We have a deficit of 135 billion dinars. In Article 2, among other things, the promoter tells us that funds for the financing of the budget deficit and payments of the credit commitments made and that funds can be used in 2012 for the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia to an amount that does not jeopardise the liquidity of that account. It's similar to the next attitude. We suggest that these views be deleted first of all because we don't think they should reach out to fund the budget deficit from the consolidated Treasury account. The vault is our family treasure. It's something we shouldn't touch, except to the extreme. We think this government needs some other ways. She's trying to do it through these billings, etc. and inherited a terrible deficit to resolve this issue in some other way. Therefore, it is not unknown to reach for funds from the account of the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia, but then criteria and conditions are then laid down when this will be done and which is why they should be clearly and prescribed, and not to say that this should be notified to the public, as well as to the MPs when they reach for the family treasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2396	Thank you. This extra time will be taken from the time of the authorised representative. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you can see, the DSS amendments are coming down one by one and they're totally in tune with each other. In this amendment, we added in Article 2 a new position on 4 which reads: "Agreement to each individual decision by the Government to access the loan or the sale of any type of bond intended to cover the deficits is given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia normally discusses such things and it would be good to put this as an item, i.e. to be legally covered in budget rebalancing, the Budget Rebalancing Act, and therefore it is very important that you vote this out, i.e. to accept the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2398	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2399	I'm well on my way to, I'm taking advantage of the opportunity that the finance minister is here, to possibly support this amendment, no matter who it comes from, and I'll say why, if you'll let me. In practice, not so long ago, four days after the defeat of 24 May, we had the opportunity for the former Prime Minister to make a decision on the broadcasting of 85 million state bonds for the consolidation of banks. The 20th NBS, look at the wonders, as if they were in agreement to abolish Agrobank, and 26 of these bonds are founded and registered by the new Agrobank. Now I'm asking you and the finance minister, how can government bonds that are actually a public debt loan be set up by any company, especially the bank? So something that's public debt, something that only happens in 2015, something that the government has quickly broadcast has been used to set up a new Agrobank. With 85 million-dollar charters covered by old Agrobank's hoax, I'd say a full-on screw-up were top state officials. Given that, too, but I'd like the finance minister to explain it to me that the liquidation of old Agrobank threatens to threaten the cheating minority shareholders, mostly Slovenians, to sue the state of Serbia and that we still have to pay about 200m euros, these are not my estimates, these are expert estimates, compensations if the state of Serbia is sued for the Agrobank case. That's why I'd like the finance minister to explain to us whether these charters can form enterprises, since it's a public debt loan? Everyone I contacted said I couldn't, and I'd like to see if the new government for what's been done, so for me, organized crime of top state officials, is going to be burdened by someone or this case is going to be covered up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2400	I am not a lawyer, but I will check out what was the legal basis for the issue of these bonds when the new Agrobank was recapitalised by the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Business Bank of Belgrade. Because they're three years old. Apparently, they weren't in the original budget. So I don't know the answer to that question that legal basis was. I'm gonna ask the public debt management people and I'm gonna get you some answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2401	Thank you. Marian Risticevic, I presume.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2402	I'm really sorry. It's not about capitalization. It's about starting a bank. Is it possible to start an enterprise or a bank with a public debt, or a loan? She can be, as you say, a capitalist. It may be part of the activity, but it can't be part of the passport. But when we get all the dates 24, 25, and 26, they're first broadcasts worth 85 million. It'll all pay for the poor in three years. So 25th, one bank is liquidated, 26 new banks are set up with a loan. My question is, can the securities of value as a loan be used for a passive? I can do the act. I know the recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2403	Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2404	You're right. It is common for bonds to be used to cover debts in state banks, which the state decides is meaningful. With the central bank and the finance ministry being analysed at the time, it all happens in April during the election campaign this year. It was known that there were both Agrobank and Business Bank Belgrade and Vojvodina Development Bank. The then government, headed by Mirko Cvetkovic, decided to issue three-year government bonds that pump up money to the Vojvodina Development Bank, 20m euros in the Business Bank of Belgrade and take over majority ownership, since the bank's capital was obviously negative and small and even 100m euros in the new Agrobank, which was created after the liquidation of this old Agrobanke, and I must say since the minus old Agrobanke was as much as 300m euros. That's what the control said. Impulated 100 million in the new Agrobank with some credit commitments and this poor portfolio was insufficient even for the formation and quality of this new Agrobank, which we here in parliament will have to discuss in the next period, especially. It's one thing that's not finished. I'm not a lawyer, I don't know if it was legally possible or not, but definitely this way the state is in charge, because there's been a bank charter, and she has the right to withdraw every six months' money against that charter and that's the public debt of the state. It's like a direct transfer was given to these banks, only it happened on a delay, for three years, every six months a certain amount. I'm going to check all of this out, because I have to admit I didn't go into the legal basis of that complete transaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2405	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Mirko Cvetkovic and Srdjan Mikovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment and control the spending of public funds. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2406	With regard to the submission of amendments, the text of the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, we had a similar problem. Our Rules of Procedure define the procedure for the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the final account, and it is clearly said that the draft budget can begin at the National Assembly session at the earliest 15 days of the day of the adoption of the draft budget in the National Assembly. This is Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, Article 176 of the Rules of Procedure has been defined to amend and supplement the budgets of the Republic of Serbia during the year, according to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which has been set up for the adoption of the budget. If we treat only that part of the Rules of Procedure as regards the submission of the proposal and the possibility of discussing it, it is possible for Members to have 15 days to consider this 270-page material, which makes up the budget and following acts, or 160-page acts, which is just the text of the naked budget. That is why, and given that the provisions of the pre-last position, point 9, Article 59, of the single methodological rules for the making of the rules, are not respected, that we are given a review of the provisions of the applicable regulations that are being amended, or supplemented, and is prepared by drawing up a part of the text that is being changed, and the new text writes in capital letters. Believe me, it was very difficult for us to submit the amendments, which we have submitted, that we have parallel to each other in front of us. Again, I must say that in the application of the amendment, we had in mind the Law on Public Debt and the Law on the Budgetary System and the very text of the Bill, together with the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I'm about to read the previous point of view and the attitude we're proposing to erase. "In 2012 funds from the consolidated account of the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia can be used to finance the budget deficit and to service the credit commitments reached in 2012 to an amount that does not jeopardise the liquidity of that account." The next position – "If at the end of 2012 there will be a loan from the consolidated Treasury account, depending on the conditions on the financial market, can be transferred in the following year." We discussed this today on the Finance Committee, although I am not a member of the Finance Committee, I have tried to enter this matter, and whether or not it existed in the current text of the budget, the fact is that this is the matter in the draft law on amendments and additions to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So that part of the text is like discussing it and changing it, proposing amendments to change it. I'm just starting from the parallel of this provision and the provisions that apply to the budgets of local self-government and other levels of government. I'm not sure that in the budgets, local self-government units have the possibility to borrow, especially a loan of over 5% or so, and that, depending on the terms of the financial market, something is being transferred next year. As I recall, a few years ago, that couldn't have happened. I don't know if it's possible now, but I think local self-government at the end of the calendar year is making a cut and no more loans in that form. I also believe that this matter, matter to be considered together with the Budgetary System Act. I'm making another remark here, because this is the subject of the amendment itself. The fact that we are with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, this law, regardless of what was to be called - the new Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, as 50 members of the existing 68 were noveled, and in the Budgetary System Act, 50 provisions were proposed for the novelisation of nexus 103. This law does not address the issue of these loans sufficiently, nor subsidies, nor how to control it. I believe, regardless of whether this amendment will be adopted or not, that it is extremely important that when we adopt the Budgetary System Act, we can also talk about amendments to the Bill on the Budgetary System, it is very important to find an adequate way of reporting, as I have mentioned, reports on the subsidized subsidies, one month later, a six-month return on the effects of paid subsidies with the opinion of the Fiscal Council. I also believe that this Bill on the Budgetary System needs to define this issue of loans, meaning that this amendment is the subject of, precisely in order to ensure that budget transparency is as transparent as possible and that budget spending savings and controls are possible, means that the more efficient budget allocation is made. Anyway, I apologize for having to link this amendment to a matter of concern, because I think it's important for all of us to solve this matter properly. I would point to just one more thing about this amendment, to explain. If we could possibly interpret that we have come to this short time and the inability to adequately propose amendments because an emergency procedure is envisaged, I would suggest that by an urgent procedure a law can be passed that regulates issues and relations arises under circumstances that could not be predicted. That part of the sentence was not entered on page 193 of the draft budget law. Only article 167 was mentioned, and then it was interpreted what consequences it would possibly have, and the very reason that this could not be predicted, it was not entered. So, in that sense, I point again. When we get new bill proposals in the National Assembly, it would be good on the one hand to have a review of the provisions that change, to have all the reasons that are standing and, if possible, to respect the business provisions of the deadlines, so that we can identify each member of the proposed law adequately.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2407	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened to my previous colleague and I am pleased that he has given some interesting ideas about methodological rules and how budgets should be done, amending and supplementing the law, especially when it comes to subsidies, how to spend them from the budget. I myself have personally submitted a few dozen amendments, to the committee responsible for finance affairs and the competent Committee on Agriculture Affairs, to give consent in a way that costs subsidies, for example, for agriculture. None of these amendments, just through that description of the budget giving, or as your party colleague Bozidar Djelic likes to say – says adhesions, so in the description of the appraisal, I asked to put something like that on. I didn't touch it, but every time it was neatly rejected, every time. As for the consolidated account of the vault, it is also not the idea of Mladjan Dinkic, or of this government. This was introduced by your party colleague Bozidar Djelic in 2003. That's what you should know. When it comes to the budget, I usually find it difficult to change attitudes, but you asked to delete the next position – if at the end of 2012, there is a loan from the consolidated vault account, depending on the conditions on the financial market, can be transferred in the following year. But I didn't read it from the rebalancing, I read it from the basic law. It's rebalanced. Now we're coming to that part of the story you were telling, about passing the law. Look, buddy, I wouldn't have known that if I hadn't read the Budget Law and budget rebalancing. I haven't received it a day before than you have now received the law on amending and supplementing the Budget Law, and look at which one is more extensive. This is the law proposed by Mirko Cvetkovic, and this is rebalancing. I had to read both. I am particularly surprised that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is the applicant of this amendment, because he, as Prime Minister and Finance Minister, asked to write it in the law, which means he didn't read the law either. He read? Just a memo. Anyway, you have interesting views. I'd like you to keep it that way. You're on your way to becoming a great MP. You finally started reading the laws, not just voting for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2409	Thank you. Srdjan Mikovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2410	Replica, and in one part, I would point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since a respected colleague of mine said that I was beginning to read the laws. I think it's at least, not to use the term disdainful, because I think everyone who's ever been in a position to work with me on any committee and what is my matter and what isn't matter, I'm trying to study every substance absolutely well. Anyway, I apologize for having to link this amendment to a matter of concern, because I think it's important for all of us to solve this matter properly. I would point to just one more thing about this amendment, to explain. If we could possibly interpret that we have come to this short time and the inability to adequately propose amendments because an emergency procedure is envisaged, I would suggest that by an urgent procedure a law can be passed that regulates issues and relations arises under circumstances that could not be predicted. That part of the sentence was not entered on page 193 of the draft budget law. Only article 167 was mentioned, and then it was interpreted what consequences it would possibly have, and the very reason that this could not be predicted, it was not entered. So, in that sense, I point again. When we get new bill proposals in the National Assembly, it would be good on the one hand to have a review of the provisions that change, to have all the reasons that are standing and, if possible, to respect the business provisions of the deadlines, so that we can identify each member of the proposed law adequately.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2411	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened to my previous colleague and I am pleased that he has given some interesting ideas about methodological rules and how budgets should be done, amending and supplementing the law, especially when it comes to subsidies, how to spend them from the budget. I myself have personally submitted a few dozen amendments, to the committee responsible for finance affairs and the competent Committee on Agriculture Affairs, to give consent in a way that costs subsidies, for example, for agriculture. None of these amendments, just through that description of the budget giving, or as your party colleague Bozidar Djelic likes to say – says adhesions, so in the description of the appraisal, I asked to put something like that on. I didn't touch it, but every time it was neatly rejected, every time. As for the consolidated account of the vault, it is also not the idea of Mladjan Dinkic, or of this government. This was introduced by your party colleague Bozidar Djelic in 2003. That's what you should know. When it comes to the budget, I usually find it difficult to change attitudes, but you asked to delete the next position – if at the end of 2012, there is a loan from the consolidated vault account, depending on the conditions on the financial market, can be transferred in the following year. But I didn't read it from the rebalancing, I read it from the basic law. It's rebalanced. Now we're coming to that part of the story you were telling, about passing the law. Look, buddy, I wouldn't have known that if I hadn't read the Budget Law and budget rebalancing. I haven't received it a day before than you have now received the law on amending and supplementing the Budget Law, and look at which one is more extensive. This is the law proposed by Mirko Cvetkovic, and this is rebalancing. I had to read both. I am particularly surprised that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is the applicant of this amendment, because he, as Prime Minister and Finance Minister, asked to write it in the law, which means he didn't read the law either. He read? Just a memo. Anyway, you have interesting views. I'd like you to keep it that way. You're on your way to becoming a great MP. You finally started reading the laws, not just voting for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2413	Thank you. Srdjan Mikovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2414	Replica, and in one part, I would point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since a respected colleague of mine said that I was beginning to read the laws. I think it's at least, not to use the term disdainful, because I think everyone who's ever been in a position to work with me on any committee and what is my matter and what isn't matter, I'm trying to study every substance absolutely well. On September 18th, I participated in the work of the Finance Committee, although I am not a member of the Finance Committee. I was also at the Finance Committee meeting today, and I managed to convince the entire Committee on Finance and Law Proposer to adopt one of my amendments. I've made a great effort, and that's why I'm saying that no matter what is in the basic text of the law and what is in the bill, there's no reason that if there's some matter of the Amendments and Supplements Bill, it's not properly analysed and we get to a better solution. In that sense, we have also suggested, in our opinion, a better solution than what currently existed in the basic text of the Law, precisely in mind and comparing what is in the budget, what is in the Law on the Budget System, what is in the conduct of all other budgets of other levels of government, and that is why we have tried to fix this. Believe me, in no way have I tried to demean anyone here and here only with someone else's opinion, and not with an individual, and you will never experience me speaking to an individual, but in relation to the proposal, in relation to the member, in relation to the amendment, and I think we should all stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2415	I thank you, Mr. Mikovic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. - Here you go, Mr. Lapchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2416	The amendment refers to the new duties of the Serbian company. Section 3 of the budget rebalancing lists the institutions and public enterprises that the state guarantees should be in charge of certain funds, and on page six says it was also in the basic budget, that the state will provide guarantees for the debt of the public undertaking, "Srbigas", to maintain the current liquidity of 190m euros, and is added at the end of the party in point 10. – for the ongoing maintenance of liquidity again for "Srbigas" 170m euros. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. To remind you, we were in the previous term an MP and Mr. Minister knows that during 2010, this parliament ratified, or approved that "Srbigas" be in debt with the Bank "Intheza", also for the current liquidity of 170m euros. Another 180m-euro plus 30m-euro loan was taken in 2011, totaling 380m euros for the previous two years. It is now only this year that we will approve that "Srbigas" is in charge of an additional 360m euros. I think it's a little out of line and that "Srbigas" should first see how it operates inside of its company, if it's exhausted all possibilities for rational business, and only then do we go further into debt. I don't know what that leads to. I don't think this much borrowing of Srbiagas, Mr. Minister, is really leading anything. If "Srbigas" is already 380 million in debt, and we will grant them 170m euros in liquid liquidity, I am not sure how much "Srbiagas" is doing rationally. According to me, there are several sports clubs that "Srbigas" finance as a sponsor. I know dozens of events around Serbia that are being held, where "Srbijagas" is sponsoring, and on the site "Srbigas" we have reports, the latest reports on the site – the consolidated financial reports "Srbigas" for 2008, notes in the 2008 report, the "Srbigas" financial report for 2008, for 2007 and 2006. Since 2008, you don't have a single document on the financial business of Srbigas, at least on their site. We've seen in the media that "Serbigas", according to the director, had a profit last year of 1.25 billion dinars. We remember that there was always a story about having to be in debt because it sells gas at a lower price than it buys, and that state should cover it. I don't think that, without more serious analysis of the business of Srbigas, we can't continue to go into the borrowing story, because it's going to go too far once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2417	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2418	I absolutely agree with you, and I've been thinking about not granting them these guarantees by the end of the year. In fact, in these 45 days, however, we haven't been able to make a serious depth analysis of what that would mean exactly and would we then have the money to buy gas and leave the citizens without heating this season. Definitely that what's going on, it's not happening now, it's happening for the last four years. "Srbigas" has been in charge of nearly a billion euros for the past four years and has already suggested that it will not be able to repay it but intend to take over the state. On the other hand, they say they can't handle the current prices. At least publicly they say that the current sale is lower than the purchase, I don't know if it's true, and that they're making losses. These losses cover through borrowing, and tomorrow they intend to transfer it to the state, to take over a billion euros in public debt on their own, because they will not be able to repay it. Thank you for starting this initiative. I'm running it internally, because it has to be resolved, probably, through some other gas prices, because there are those who can pay and collect gas and there are those who can't. This is where we come to the question – who can't pay, how to directly protect him, not essentially all of us subsidize. So it turns out that the gas is subsidized, if the exact thesis and the "Srbigas" that the sale price is lower than the import price, by overselling from one side to the other, by transferring the debt they are supposed to pay to the public debt of the state again through the taxes of all citizens. It needs to be cut. And objectively, we couldn't do that detailed analysis in 45 days so we could stop this borrowing now, in fear that there would be no gas for the heating season. But you're absolutely right that this has to be well analyzed and some systemic measures are being taken regarding this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2419	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2420	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for sharing our thoughts in this system. I don't think it makes sense for someone to say they're doing business with losses, and to sponsor various events and clubs -- barbecues in Leskovec, sponsor of "Serbigas", the trumpet festival, sponsor of "Srbigas". It's humane, it's nice, but when you do business positively, then it's okay and you sponsor it, you sponsor the clubs. It now turns out that, due to the loss of "Srbigas", the state will be in debt, because "Srbigas" cannot repay and then the whole of Serbia will repay the debts, and we from Nis, the people from Vranje, from Leskovec through taxes to pay the debts of "Serbiagas" that have been spent, mainly, on some things that did not apply to our end. I don't think that's fair and that there should be one more responsible relationship to the company and the spending of the funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2421	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in Article 3, part b, we added item number 7, which reads: "building regional dumps, amount in dinars of 8,625,000 or 75 million euros. Why have we submitted this amendment? Because the 2012 budget provided that these funds existed and were intended to be right for the construction of regional dumps. According to standards, it is necessary to build regional dumps that should not be much, and must be built on an impermeable basis and each of them must be directed to at least 200,000 inhabitants. This project of building regional dumps fully meets these standards, and its removal or disposal is particularly problematic, as more than a thousand wild and several thousand regular, but not organised dumps in Serbia, Serbia is much lagging behind in this area. As I have already said, as you have repeatedly mentioned during these discussions on environmental protection, an action that has cost the citizens of Serbia quite a bit. "Let's Clean Serbia" didn't exactly clean up all the dumps as we can see, but it cleaned up the budget pretty much. Now you're completely in a lack of funds. you resort to leaving out certain items of the budget. But we insist that this item enters, because I have stated that thousands of dumps for Serbia are very much and Serbia will have a big problem with that. It is one inadequate waste management and one of Serbia's biggest environmental problems. I mentioned these wild dumps, and I also mentioned that those that are as arranged don't match technical and technological conditions, and especially not hygienic, conditions. A lack of regional dumps with which construction and projecting was launched by Minister Aleksandar Popovic, but did not get very far. One of the biggest problems is the lack of top professionals, people who are going to do the job, because practically politicians and political deputies are being dragged into every place and lead to a job not being done according to high professional standards. When I say that I have, first of all, in terms of the Institute for Multidisciplinary Approach to Research. So, one professional and professional institute. That's where the director was transferred. I'm sorry Mr. Djelic isn't here to tell us something about it, because he could say a lot about it. He's the chairman of the board of directors who just replaced a professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2423	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 3 amendments with correction were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2424	Thank you, Chairman. I've tried in every way to convince the government to accept this amendment that hasn't asked for any additional funds, unfortunately I haven't been able to, but I'm not surprised. In fact, this is about the attitude towards Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region. The current government has decided, or coalition partners, to abolish the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, or the ministry that was together with the faith. She decided to form an office. When I talked about it, I said it was more of a construction category than a legal category that should take care of four million Serbs living outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, primarily in the countries of the region and the diaspora. However, what is a paradox and such a formed office has not yet been given to its director. People who worked at the Ministry of Diaspora and the Ministry of Faith, according to all of them not to do the job, because neither the Ministry Act has given anyone jurisdiction. I guess that's what the Serbians' office in the region and Serbs in the diaspora will do. Therefore, there is still no appointment of the director of the office and Serbs in the region and the Serbs in the diaspora, so four million people, no one cares. In the previous period, when the previous government existed, it was one of the pillars, or one of the national interests. As we cared about national minorities living in Serbia, we also cared about Serbs living in the region and diaspora. As a result, I am not surprised that one institution, which has existed for 60 years, will be shut down for the basic reasons that there are no conditions, we have received information that their heating has been shut down since last winter. It normally keeps numerous legates, such as images, valuable books, etc. I'm not surprised at the ministry's attitude. I got an explanation that the office, which is like, formed, did not put on the list the users of the budget of that institution. However, since the office is not formed, I can only conclude that it is a clear message that the government has no attitude towards diaspora and Serbs in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2425	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2426	Technical error. You didn't notice me, I answered after the last amendment. So that there may be no disagreement with the MPs, just one small request. Neither did the diaspora ministry care about four million, nor should one ministry worry about millions of citizens living abroad from Serbia's territory, but all ministries must create optimal conditions that the needs that the country of origin can meet. On the other hand, that the needs that are being met in the country itself are optimal. I certainly doubt that this amendment can, but it is a good opportunity to remind myself that there has really been a whole series of failures in the takeover of employees, who may be in a situation now that they have legal problems, within those parts of the former ministries that have not yet been deployed, from the point of view of material duties, professional persons, employees, committed persons. I draw attention to taking care of this, and certainly all the other ministries are in charge of their segment. Thank you very much, and thank you for all MPs' tolerance for this accidental slip.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2427	Thank you. So your discussion referred to the previous amendment. So, the amendment I read was an integral part, the amendment proposed by Mr. Milisav Petronivic was accepted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Radoslav Milenović. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2428	Just one question - how many minutes does my parliamentary group have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2429	You have 53 minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2430	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I will read this amendment submitted by our colleague, Riza Halimi: "In Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, in Section 3, Serbia's Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, function 110, in the economic classification of 454 - subsidies to private enterprises, is replaced by 40 million dinars by 60, and in the economic classification of 411 – salaries, allowances and remuneration of employees, earnings, amounting to 22,164 is replaced by 17,164 million." Since it is a very sensitive, securely sensitive area, that it is a poor neighborhood, I think this amendment should be accepted. It is my conclusion that all these suggestions that Vojvodina lawmakers have also put on the same topic, and this also applies to the ends where I live, in eastern Serbia, should be accepted. What was simply amazing and prevailing here, is that the main culprit in the budget was the Democratic Party, so I would finally ask Minister Dinkic and the representatives of the former government for the next session of the Assembly to bring the minutes from all sessions of the Government of Serbia over the past four years, so that we can assess who voted, how and who was responsible for this deficit, that, of course, the National Assembly would have full insight into it. One more thing, I'm gonna use the pay phone a little bit. If I rob a bank, God forbid, and Mr. Dinkic is my accomplice, in the sense that the guards don't come by the police, will he just arrest me, am I the only one responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2431	I want to remind you that there is a day to ask parliamentary questions, and that may be the best time to ask that question. Thank you. The word is Mr. Nejo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2432	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, all amendments that attack Article 5, that is to say to amend Article 5, have obviously not recognized something that is very important, which can be burdensome for the budget. I'm convinced that the Ministry of this problem I'm going to point out is recognized and that it will respond adequately to the same. In fact, we're expected to have two serious budget strikes this year. The first is the decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia to return to courts close to 400 previously unelected judges. This automatically withdraws the burden on the budget, in terms of providing money to pay the judges, but also to pay the fees for outstanding earnings during which the judges were outside the courts. In addition, the return of judges to their jobs also requires the implementation of technical preconditions, which also include certain financial resources, absolutely necessary from the budget. This implies, above all, the equipment of the office space, the restoration of very outdated computer equipment and many other needs, and the excessive provision of money to pay off profits to judicial professional associates, given that according to law, each judge must have one expert associate. In addition, it is inevitable that judges and courts are supplied by vehicles, given that the fleets of vessels are completely destroyed, that vehicles are used for over 10 years old and over, that this is the most felt in the execution cases, where the perpetrators, for example, are going a hundred kilometers away, to carry out the shops and perform precisely in the territory covered by the jurisdiction of that court. These are all costs that will certainly add to the budget. In addition, these costs do not have a return fact, because the full budget will not be done in the way it is expected. Why? Simply because there's a very difficult way to charge court taxis. I also mention the economic courts that have the problem precisely for reasons why fees cannot be charged to restructured companies, according to companies that are in bankruptcy and to insolvent companies, therefore, companies that are in the financial crisis. What do you do when a court is prevented from imposing a court fee, which is enormously high in the case of disputes of high value, which cannot be done by coercion in a court procedure? That is why I have tried to amend this problem today to eliminate the generator of this adverse effect, which is the provision of Article 20g of the Privatisation Act, which prohibits enforcement of entities in privatisation. What's the consequence? As a result, a large number of corporate creditors in restructuring cannot collect their claims, and since they cannot charge them, they come to a large dubiosis, go bankrupt, and their employees remain on the streets, or without a job. In this situation, we do not have a budget to be filled in with respect to the collection of basic funds for pension disability insurance. So these are multiple consequences. I also have to mention the basic courts, and the basic courts have another problem, because natural persons can't simply charge court fees and this problem is generated in the sense that simply the largest part, even 70% of court taxis are not able to charge. What is also important to mention is that this year is a year of judicial consolidation. If it comes from the fact that in this consolidation we must have preconditions for forming an elite judiciary, then it is an obligation that implies an additional burden on the budget. Why? Because the educational processes of the judges are not satisfied with the way it is now. Councils organised by the Supreme Cassation Court, the Justice Centre, especially the Business and Appeal Court, are excellent counselling, well organised, but insufficient due to the lack of funds from the budget that each judge is educated. Why? Because only a third of the judges in the courts go to these consultations. The lack of money has conditioned such a consequence. In order to eliminate this effect, it is necessary to further stimulate the very kind of education of judges from the budget, in order to organise the consultations predominantly according to international programmes through the adoption of international standards and to assist economic courts and the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Justice Centre, in order to obtain professional and professional judges, thus providing a basic principle and a basic objective, which is the legal certainty of our citizens. The second blow to the budget, which is precisely in the spirit of this Article 5, will repercussion against the Government and the Ministry of Finance and Business, is the fact that a large number of judges will file claims for damages, both material and immaterial, because they were illegally out of business and out of their judicial jobs. It is normal that there are large amounts of damages to be found in court proceedings, which can undoubtedly result in an additional not small burden on the budget. One extremely well-intentioned suggestion for the ministry and for all ministries in the government would be to disburse the budget in at least one part of the budget and help the courts, so that at least that part of the rolling stock will be restored precisely by reducing the number of vehicles used by the Government, the Government's institutions and the authorities, and that those same vehicles that are in good condition are subject to court use. In this way, the budget will be protected, and there will be no excessive burden on those who use these vehicles, and the courts will also benefit from them in terms of the basic needs that courts are carrying out. In terms of the collection of court fees, I believe that the determination of this problem can be eliminated by amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, which I have tried to point out to the amendment that has been rejected today, and I must point out that the economic courts, as far as the fees are concerned, are extremely effective. These are the most efficient courts in terms of charge. I'm starting with the fact that the Uzic Business Court is right now, without the intention of favouring the court, although one of the fastest and most efficient, with just over 90% of the success of the charge, has managed to contribute to the full budget. I hope that these suggestions, which have good intentions, will be respected and that they are recognised in time by the restoring ministry, as well as that they will respond adequately to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2433	Thank you. If no one answers their word anymore, we move on to the next amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Jaksic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2434	My colleague Marko Jaksic suggested that from an item from the Office for European Integration, I now do not have time to go into all the details, mainly to transfer 60 million from that office to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, for specialized services. For what? I think Mr. Jaksic wanted all of us here together to remind us that the process of returning internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija has absolutely stopped. It stopped for almost two, three years. We even have different processes, but that's what the media is talking about, and it's not about Serbs moving out of Kosovo and Metohija again. So we as a people have completely failed when it comes to this problem. His wish was to provide funding for specialized services and help all those associations of citizens who are engaged and trying to restart the process of returning Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2435	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 16 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2436	Thank you. I would primarily like to thank the Government and the Minister of Finance for accepting this amendment and to say that this is all in favour of this government being a government that runs a socially responsible policy, that this is a government that is fighting for a balanced regional development of Serbia and that this is a government that has as a long-term goal of solving everyone's problem by providing new jobs and that even those people who are socially at risk, in fact by providing new jobs, create the conditions that they will one day be the ones who will fill the budget, and not always be the ones who will use budget funds. In that direction, this amendment and these funds should be used for several components. One of these components is that projects that have shown that in the Roma integration process, as examples of good practice, for example in Vojvodina where we have good results in certain environments, these projects are transferred to the territory of the whole of the Republic of Serbia, not that we have a situation that we only do well in one environment and then we listen all the time to the information that in one municipality or in several municipalities we have good results, and in all other municipalities we do not have the same results. The second component is to help the ministries, I will only list a few ministries, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Housing, the Ministry of Labour, to really form projects that are going to be done on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, to help local self-governments that are not in a situation to defuse such projects, to define these projects and that these projects can compete not only in the IPA funds, but also in other European Commission funds, and in other EU countries that want to help the process. I'm just going to point out one example that only one activity in this direction has helped to help with the Ministry of Education, but in the next period we can ensure that 400 scholarships, I know it's not the subject of this amendment, but is one of the activities that should be transferred to other areas, provide 400 scholarships for high school students in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and so far they've enjoyed it in 2006 and 2007, when the Roma Party collaborated with the Executive Greater Vojvodina. Three hundred fifty scholarships were provided only, but for high school students in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Once again, in order not to take up a lot of time, what's very important is that the whole system and the resources that have come down to creating such projects that maintain different components and integration of the Roma, and that the foundation of all these components is that these people are employed and that these people are reduced in this way ethical distance, not to say that they're just taking the funds, but that they can one day fill the budgets. I would say the next thing that we talked to the representatives of the European Commission and that they are also interested in defining a project of building apartments, cheap ones, meaning social housing in which these people will be able to move with cheap, small monthly annuities with four to five thousand dinars in the longer term to pay off their apartments, not to make a system to first move them to containers that the state pays, then to apartments that the state pays again, and five, six times we spend state money and thus we send a message to talk about a community that just wants to take money out of the budget without being willing to take responsibility. Once again, I thank the Government for seeing the good side of this project's proposal and I suggest that we all analyze the results of the project together in 2013 and that we do not have a situation to have 200 students enrolled as it is now at the university, and that 13 students graduate, but that we have a situation to enter a smaller number but that the number of people who graduated is three, four or five times higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2437	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic to section 5th and 24th. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2438	Thank you, Mr. Korach. It's nice that the minister of education and science came, but the finance minister went to answer the same, which is why he didn't accept the amendment I submitted, and I asked one item in the budget to increase the funding for high school and elementary school students' competitions. I assumed that Mr Dinkic would not accept it, but all of this is also my attempt to distract some two minutes, as far as possible, that there is a problem with the organisation of various competitions and in primary and secondary schools precisely because of lack of funds. The directors often complain that they have difficulties with local self-governments that should be part of the organisation of the competition, and they certainly complain that no assistance comes from the ministry. This shows our mildly irresponsible attitude toward talented students, since we cannot even motivate them, or reward them enough when they win first, second or third place, whether it is municipal, regional and republican. They don't have to be some huge means, but to know when the student wins first place somewhere that he's going to be rewarded, and to God we should reward teachers and teachers, when we're talking about this because they're putting a lot of energy, effort, and work, and we can't really reward something. So that's one thing. Also, I wanted to, but it was more for Mr Dinkic, to pay a little more attention to what local self-governments do which in their local budgets always have the material assistance to schools, and they also have items about how they will engage in the professional training of teachers and teachers from the territory and local self-government. I'm afraid you always have it in your budget, but that doesn't end where it's supposed to end. We had a report on the Committee on Education on the other day on the National Educational Council where Mrs Radunović is members of the Committee, when we asked her what you consider to be one of the biggest problems in primary and secondary education, she said that, in the Council's view, it is the biggest problem that is the lack of continuous and quality professional training of all teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2439	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. We're moving on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic to section 5th and 20th. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2440	I can see that the government was very wise when she accepted this amendment, because she herself promoted that she wanted to save, and I found in the budget, in the department of the Ministry of Traffic, that they provided 20 million for the establishment of the Port Control Agency, for the management of ports. I really thought it was absolutely funny to separate funds in this way, and I transferred it to the Ministry of Emergency, that is, this part of the ministry. You all know why, it's perfectly clear, and I can see that this government can say that she did a good job accepting the DSS amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2441	Thank you. Is there anyone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds... I apologize to the MPs, I skipped. So I'll go back to the last one. The amendment was submitted to Sections 3 and 55 of the 5th, by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does Mr. Michael want a word? Yeah. Will you just sign in, please, Mr. Michael?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2442	Only briefly for the distribution of services by contract, since we noticed that throughout the budget services were significantly increased by the ministries. Since we here, probably they, get constant demands from various religious communities, especially from undeveloped areas to help them rebuild the temples and at all the activities they have, we have foreseen this amendment to transfer one part of the funds from the department of service to the contract for that function. Services under the contract have been significantly increased throughout the budget across all ministries, according to all offices, minors are double what was provided for in the budget. We felt that such a gesture by the government would be acceptable, given that it would not be much of a threat to contract services and that, as a gesture of course the government would decide on, it would help all the strong demands that we receive here, probably all the other parliamentary groups, help solve some problems in undeveloped areas of some religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2443	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Is Bojana Bozanic answering? On Article 5 of the 16th Amendment, MP Bojana Bozanic submitted. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2444	Thank you. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group concerns the part in the budget that speaks of tourism. In general, the allocations for tourism in the context of budget rebalancing have been increased, compared to the original budget. However, that means, for example. which during the previous period were planned to improve the quality of the catering offer of natural persons, small and medium-sized enterprises through the Development Fund, etc. It's down to 496 million just 10 million dinars, so I wonder what we're going to do with those projects that started in different local self-governments at the beginning of this year, which is, just now, just to see how it's going to be realized. We have a few projects on Zlatibor, so I want to know how these projects will be realized, of which money, since we signed the contracts. Subsidies also to public non-financial enterprises and organisations have been increased from 784 to a billion in 772, etc., and I propose simply that part of these funds be defined precisely for the realization of certain projects in the field of tourism. What is very important is that the Ministry of Economy, which is in charge of the area of tourism in the coming period, takes a little more account of the definition of the precise and clear criteria for financing local, regional projects, i.e. to precisely define the criteria for local, regional and national projects, not only in the field of tourism, but primarily in the area of infrastructure that is very important for the development of tourism, for the construction of highways, smaller airports, railways, etc. It is very important for these criteria to be clearly defined and to know what the state is investing in all local self-governments. I believe that, in the coming period, programming must become more and more pronounced, i.e. the implementation, or financing of projects over a number of years, taken into account, because simply, public procurement cannot be considered if the funds are not set out in the budget for that year. I think it has to be the subject and the corrections in the next period. I hope that it will change so that projects that take more and longer years to be realised can be completed in local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2445	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Section 16 of Article 5. So, the board took it himself. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives adopted the amendment, and considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic to section 5 of the 16th and 25th. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2446	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment refers to an item of service under the Treasury Administration contract, on which the 1.6m euros were based, deliberately speaking in euros to make you understand better, to figure out what amount this is about. I asked the amendment that only the 20th part of that total be relocated to something vital to the entire population of this country, which is the depravation of voluntary blood donation. In the light of which my amendment is rejected, it is said that these funds I have responded to are related to various IT systems, operators, servers and so on. Without any intention of underestimating any profession, and it is generally known that today the price of services in the IT sector falls, especially in times of crisis, private firms, large corporations that define millions of amounts for IT budgets, today these budgets are practically reducing. Now, of course, when it comes to the responsibility for which this amendment is being rejected, I must also say that I was simply surprised by the government's view, where these funds were said to be partly related to the advertising of the level of public debt. Now, of course, if we know how much the funds are provided for all of this we come into one paradoxical situation in the least said, because we taxpayers pay for the service that is responsible for these services totalling about two million euros, which, of course, is not able to properly account for the amount of public debt. This is what Mr. Mladjan Dinkic spoke about seven days ago and about which a great controversy was raised in public. So, the system worth nearly 2m euros miscalculates the level of public debt, not for a little bit, but for no less than one billion and 200m euros. So if it's all the way it's explained, then I really don't understand why the government can't cut the amounts on these items and that's why it's not possible to get to a certain one, and I can pretty much say free, big savings in the budget itself. I must also say that today's visible problem is to increase the rate of non-motivation of voluntary blood donors and reduce voluntary donations. That's why I've been reacting to the amendment, although we'll agree that, of course, the financial context in this case is not the only one. There are many other ways to speed up voluntary giving in other ways, but I think this is the first step. Today, reserves are often at a minimum, and not only in the summer period but unfortunately it has become a standard. It is because of these events and because of this lack, especially emergency operations are rarely even delayed. Therefore, I felt that the funds under the contract of the Treasury Administration should be re-designed for these purposes because it is vital to health, to preserve the health and life of the entire nation. Of course, this is about a very serious enterprise, but that venture, of course, must cost money. The fact is, my amendment doesn't apply to irrationally high costs. I think it is necessary for the government to reconsider it once more, because the funds provided for it would have multiple meanings and would be paid off multiple times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2447	Thank you. Anyone else want to take a word for this amendment? We had one remark from a very safe MP, let me inform parliament that, on article 5 of the 16th Amendment, MP Petar Petkovic submitted, however, Mr Petkovic withdrew from the procedure himself and therefore did not appear on the agenda and therefore did not plead. Thank you for your remarks. The People's MP Ruzica Igic submitted the amendments to Section 5 of 16 and 28 of the amendment. Excuse me, MP Radoslav Milovanovic, after the previous amendment, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2448	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I support this amendment by counterpart Milice Radovic. I think he's meaningful and he's very useful to this society. I'll just give you some information on why this should be done. Annual amounts that would satisfy Serbia's current level of health system are defined as 40 contributions per 1,000 population, or 4% of the year-on-year or about 300,000 donations. Current level is 2.95%. The number of traffic accidents in Serbia in 2011 was 42,354 and the number of injured persons was 19,254. Leukemia suffers three to 100,000 people annually, 300 children a year, and only heart valve surgery is 1,500 a year, so this is an extraordinary proposal. I will support this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2449	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word in this amendment, Mrs. Radovic? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Igic submitted amendments to Section 5 of the 16th and 28th amendments. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2450	I thank the chairman. The amendment I have made concerns the Environment Protection Agency, i.e. the funding this agency expects from budget rebalances. The budget rebalancing envisions an estimated 2m euros in the 2012 budget for the Environment Protection Agency, the funds increase by around 850,000 euros. At the moment when the rationalisation and cost reduction of agencies have been announced, and at the moment when we do not see it, it is not clear why this increase occurred, we are putting MPs in a position to vote on increasing the funds allocated to the Environment Protection Agency. So the amendment applies to that. When I opened the Environment Agency's website, the Agency and the Agency's work should be to develop, coordinate and manage the national environmental information system, which means the establishment of a register of polluting substances, the collection and pooling of environmental data, their processing and production of environmental reports, the implementation of environmental protection policies, co-operation with the EU for the environment and the European Network for Information and Observation. In recent years, it's been a tendency for the agency to take over some of the jobs I don't think are competent. Today, the agency is doing monitoring and state of water quality, monitoring the quality of land, monitoring the quality of surface and underground water, monitoring the state of the plant and animal world, monitoring the state of industrial and municipal waste. In my opinion, the agency should pool the data that others provide her, not open its own labs and work on forming itself into one scientific institution. According to all this, it turns out that the Environmental Protection Agency is turning into a scientific institution that will take over jobs from Jaroslav Černij, from the “Siniša Stanković” Institute, from various universities dealing with environmental protection and which have numerous projects in this area, which do so very well. Of course, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, even the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia, is involved. If the agency is working to monitor the state of the plant and animal matter, then what does the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia do? I wonder if Serbia is so rich that it agrees that jobs and laboratories are doubled. I note that I come from the University of Novi Sad where, for example, 100 employees from the budget are being withdrawn somewhere around 110 million dinars. The agency is withdrawing around 280 million dinars from its 88 employees' budget. I wonder what's going on here. I mean, employees' salaries. The agency has 88 employees. For these 88 employees, there are around 280 million dinars that are withdrawn. It also raises the question whether such a relationship with the agency of serious environmental affairs and environmental protection is entrusted to an institution that is not competent, such as the competent institutions mentioned above. I'd like to think about it, especially at this point when we're talking about the suspension of agencies, because all that talk about the abolition of various agencies doesn't make sense if we cancel 10 or 20 out of 120. The DSS is more about the fact that the Environmental Protection Fund, which we've been talking about these days, should have been more detailed and budgetary in some way kept. The agency, in my opinion, if they take over college jobs, institutes of various scientific, then they shouldn't exist or there shouldn't be an agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2451	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 17 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In particular, this amendment, the DSS parliamentary club re-scheduls funds from a budget piece dedicated to the DKP of 188 million dinars at the Agrarian Payments Office for Agricultural Subsidies. Why the DKP item? Because with this budget rebalance, we see that the item without some explanation and explanation has increased by a billion and 200 million dinars and is climbing somewhere to four billion and 880 million dinars. On the other hand, as we have heard here from the Minister of Agriculture, including the prime minister, and also from the finance minister, agriculture should be a strategic branch of the country's development. Thus, even through budget rebalancing, we can see that the increased budget is agrarian by about 10 billion dinars, so it's not burning that these funds, which are for no reason put on a billion-and-a-half dinar bill, are being rescheduled to the agrarian fund. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that this amendment should be accepted, especially as this drought is and how it has decimated the yields and how it has done great damage to agriculture, so it will be necessary for the agrarian budget to be much higher probably already in the 2013 budget, so we considered it appropriate to move these billions and a half of dinars in the DKP item to the Agricultural Affairs Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2453	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2454	I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 which, due to technical failure, could not have been the subject of the debate, so I would like to say a few words about it, I think it is very important, and I believe that you will allow me to say something about it. (President: I'm just sorry, Mr. Lapčević, with a lot of tolerance but it's very difficult to talk about an amendment that isn't in the procedure. I know, I know, but I just want that if I don't mind saying a few words. (President: Come on, I'll be tolerant, but I just have to warn you. ) I pointed out by the Ministry of Transport, so in the division of buildings construction facilities, a billion and 362 million dinars are scheduled for the construction of the Zemun-Borca Bridge in line with the construction contract. We don't mind, if someone doesn't realize that I have something against having funds in the budget to build this important bridge, but I just have to say, to take the impression that we've seen these things, these things in previous budgets and rebalances, so that was the last years' funds for the reconstruction of Gazela, and the means for a tour around Belgrade. With one amendment, I tried to define some of the funds to move the railroad from the centre of the city of Nis. You may have heard that story earlier, too bad Minister Dinkic isn't here. It would be much more important for him, respecting Minister Obradovic, to be told. So, through the town of Nis, only the core of the town of Nis passes a railway line leading towards Bulgaria, Turkey, the Middle East. All the burden, whether it be a freighter, a dangerous, rail passenger traffic passing through the centre of the town of Nis. The city of Nis has been trying for 40 years to get that railroad out of the center, to build a bypass, of course it can't do the city. The railroad is a state-owned company and it must take care of its procedure, not the city. We never understood that. For the past few years, we've been working intensively on it, we've done urban projects, we've done a major bypass project, we've done an expropriation of land. It is necessary to identify the funds and start with these works at last. Just one illustrative piece of information, in the whole story, not to mention pollution, traffic that's completely suppressed in the city. More than 150 people died on that stake because there's no denivellation of the railroad. I think it's a very important thing, that each government, especially this one, to predict these funds. We know it's not possible in this rebalancing process, and because of my wrong amendment, but I just wanted to point out that this is meant to make a new budget, and I thank you for letting me say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2455	Of course, MPs, the topic is important, I only advise you that when there is a budget that will come, as Minister Dinkic told us in a month, to look for that section to appear, you simply fight as a parliamentary group. Mr. Marijan Rističević:
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2456	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I will support the individual amendment submitted by my predecessor for the simple reason of the increase in subsidies in agriculture. So it wasn't the Greeta taken from Vuk Jeremic, which is why our expenses were increased and transferred to the farmers. So, if agriculture is our chance, and if we are so close to European integration, then the level of the agricultural budget should also be adjusted according to the subsidies that EU countries have. Just to remind you that the agricultural budget of the former government for all Serbia was 2.5% of the entire budget for agriculture. With the rebalance of the new government's budget, we kind of patched up 3%, but it's not nearly as close as the EU. The EU's agricultural budget is 45% of the EU's total budget. So it's the model by which they develop their agriculture. Not only agriculture, but they develop the competitiveness of the processing industry, because their processing industry gets raw materials at a lower price. So processed products, food products can also be placed, more competitive than ours and on their market, and God help us on ours. If we want to be competitive, not only with agriculture production but with food, then we must support primary agricultural production, premiums and subsidies. We cannot do as the developed EU does, but we must if we want to join the EU, and I believe that most people here want to. We need to get close to their subsidy level as well. With that, I also support this amendment by wanting to take this 185 million from the Foreign Ministry and transfer to the agrarian budget, by saying that this year he was increased for the simple reason that the former government had left debts. So the original agrarian budget they were planning was for this year, but they forgot that last year they left the debt between six and seven billion farmers for subsidies. When they were paid, there was simply no more money to settle the subsidies owed to farmers this year, so before they changed agricultural policy three times in protest and guaranteed it in a certain way. There was hardly a way to scrape funds to make the government accountable to these farmers, regardless of the debt left by the old government. Given that it is only 185 million, I would like to support this amendment and to say that we, at least from the ruling majority, are going to put pressure on pre-election passwords, almost all parties in this House, on twice the agri-agreement budget, and that in the next agrarian budget there will be more money for projects, not just from agriculture but from vegetables, fruit growing, processing industry, etc. So, I want to thank you for your attention and I will certainly vote individually for this amendment, it is my sacred duty as president of the NSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2457	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 9. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No). If he doesn't, I can find out that we've completed a search of all the amendments and that we can conclude a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to the next 26. Point of the agenda, proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the budget system. You have received amendments submitted by the Government, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the MPs: Teodora Vlahović, Janko Vesenović, Sinisa Lazić, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Srdjan Miković, Vladimir Ilic, Nenad Popović, Jovan Palalić, Ružica Igić, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petković, Sinisa Kovac, Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojšić and Olena Papuga. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill in particular, undermining in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Janko Veselinović and Sinisa Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, Mrs. Teodora Vlahovic, the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2458	People's MPs from the DS Group submitted an amendment to Article 3(2). The law on the budgetary system is, in fact, a member or a position that regulates the basis for determining the volume of the AP Vojvodina budget. So there is a change in this law, or a bill that changes, the basis for determining the volume of the AP Vojvodina budget. I would remind myself that under the applicable law, that is, and now that, until this change is adopted, the scope of establishing the basis for the AP Vojvodina, was intended to be the basis, meaning the total income and receipts achieved on the basis of the sale of non-financial assets. The proposed change applies only to part of the income and only to tax revenues. In order of size, although I don't want to talk much about numbers, because here I don't want to talk about numbers, I want to talk about the legal system, about a consistent legal system and respect for the Constitution, but to realize that this change actually has a material effect, the difference between basics is a circus of 130 billion dinars, which is not insignificant. The essence of our amendment was overly focused on the constitution providing for the AP Vojvodina budget to be determined at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This constitutional provision is very decadent. There's no need for further interpretation. The law on the budgetary system in Article 2 also defines what is meant by the instigation of the Republic of Serbia. There are also incomes and expenditures, and a practically valid solution did not fully apply, but we did not look beyond the current solution, or we asked to keep the existing solution, for the simple reason that if we were to see it realistically defined in the Constitution, we should also include the deficit. So our amendment does not mean and we did not go to that amount, but to keep the existing solution. We've read the government's reply carefully. At the same time, we had the opportunity to see that this was the position of Article 3 and the committee had submitted an amendment. It can be said that the board has submitted a more linguistically correct amendment, but that the essence is not touched. So, there remains a continuing discrepancy of this attitude with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and there is the possibility of starting a constitutional appeal. In this regard, we point out that one of the amendments proposed for this article and another should be adopted. The government also benefits from its argument that tax revenues are clearly defined, more precise, more regular and will thus ensure continued financing in an appropriate manner by the AP Vojvodina. So, so far, the solution in its composition has had that part of the tax revenues, and the financing of the AP Vojvodina was not adequately realised, especially by a stable dynamic and by that percentage, by the participation that the Constitution provides. How will all of what the government has put into account be realized? We will discuss this more when a report on the implementation of the 2012 budget comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2459	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2460	Thank you. This was a common amendment. The colleague explained one segment of this question. I will look back at the other three segments that the non-acceptance of this amendment entails. This is both a political and legal and economic issue. The political issue concerns the fact that the Republic of Serbia in this way is denying by the Constitution guaranteed the rights of the AP Vojvodina and thus opening up space for the political crisis with nothing caused. So we had the fact that the Constitutional Court had reached a solution on certain issues concerning the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Now we're trying, in a way, all together, and the Republic and the Province, to get out of this problem. I hope that there will be enough political will to resolve this issue, no matter what DS in Vojvodina, let's say, does absolute power, and does not participate in government at the republican level. However, we are now opening a new topic. Now, let's look at it politically, in which the coalition is as it is already formed, trying in a certain way to discipline the province politically by denying it with the Constitution the funds provided for. I'm moving on to another aspect of this problem, which is constitutional-legal. This article shall in a direct manner violate Article 184(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which it says -- the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The member we dispute and believe to be unconstitutional is said to be 7% of the tax revenues of the budget. The tax revenues of the budget are now lower by around 150 billion or 60 billion compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, specifically on the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, not to mention the fact that it is a deficit and that if expenditure is discussed, the amount would be higher. I'm talking about income, then. In that sense, this is a constitutional-law issue and here the Constitutional Court will have no dilemma. So, this law is a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in some ways we have led to a lack of respect for the Constitution, not certain provisions that would be unclear in any way, but in a very clear provision. In the end, this is an economic issue. It's about the funds, the big money, so 7% on 170 or 80 billion is serious money, which is directed to different sides by this budget rebalance. For example, it is directed to cover the loss of "Serbiagas", whose director has a decent salary, even part of it is given for humanitarian purposes. His directors, associates, also have decent salaries that probably do not give for humanitarian purposes, because they are not so highly positioned politicians. So, constitutionally guaranteed funds for AP Vojvodina, here I'm talking about the AP Vojvodina, every local self-government knows what it means to deny rights, but this level of government loses serious funds this time, and thus the planned investment and remaining obligations, i.e. the reconciliation of the existing AP Vojvodina obligations for already planned expenditures. The explanation given for not accepting this amendment is, we could say, legally very strange. It's given to a page and a half, but it might come down to the fact -- there's no money. So we don't respect the Constitution because there's no money. This argument was not to be written by the one who did it, because it would be an additional reason for the Constitutional Court to repeal a law like this and a provision like this. However, it will be too late. Until then, we will be witnesses of repercussion, both political and economic and legal, on this matter. I ask the Government's representative, I ask the Government, to think carefully before voting on a voter's day, voting on one of these terms. I hope that in this respect we have the support of all those who are interested in respecting the Constitution, and I hope, at this time, that a colleague from the DSS, who, despite disputed certain provisions and felt that some of the provisions of the law regarding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina were not right, challenged those provisions before the Constitutional Court. So I hope we can agree on this. Because this isn't about whether or not it's about autonomy, it's about notorally respect for the provisions of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2461	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2462	I would like to say that our party and the Government of the Republic of Serbia led by our party president during the period of application of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that everyone who followed how the budget was carried out knows that we strictly respected this provision in the Constitution concerning the revenues of Vojvodina. We have worked really hard to respect in all segments the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the AP Vojvodina. We have not made any distinction about whether the application and respect of the Constitution concerns the funds that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has or whether it concerns the powers defined by the Constitution for the AP Vojvodina. It is true that a colleague has now said that we have launched before the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of a series of competences relating to the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina which are unconstitutional. So, when we talk about respecting the Constitution, I would ask that the Constitution be fully respected, not partially, as the individual structures of the government in the AP Vojvodina corresponds or does not respond. In this case, we have a discussion on whether Vojvodina belongs to 7% of the funds defined in the Constitution. That's right. As the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Vojislav Kostunica has fulfilled its obligations, we expect, of course, the current government to do so. But we also expect the current government of the Republic of Serbia to respect and implement decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and to stop those powers that have been announced by unconstitutional ones. I'm gonna talk about it a little bit more in the amendment that we've submitted. It's a big problem when the Constitution is partially interpreted. We have heard here today through the discussion that we expect the representatives of the province and the republican authorities to agree to come out of the obvious crisis that has arisen, or the obvious unconstitutional laws that occurred after the Constitutional Court's decision. Gentlemen, there is no possibility of an agreement on whether or not we will respect the Constitution. It can only be respected or disrespected. If you don't respect him again, the DSS will restart the constitutionality initiative. We are ready, as we would once say, for a long march through the institutions, to gain respect for the Constitution. No agreements, no compromises, no agreements that would violate the Constitution, in order to satisfy the interests of the current province's administration-stration, so that political tensions can be prevented, as announced here, – we will not accept. We want the Constitution to be respected, both on defined means and on jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2463	The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2464	Dear Chairman, first of all, I wanted to report to you on this amendment and you will allow me, it is in accordance with the procedure and the Rules of Procedure, to talk about three amendments that are very similar to the content, since the government of the Republic of Serbia gave an answer, or an explanation of why it rejects these amendments in the same text, but I would also like to refer to my colleague Palalic. I really wanted to point out in my statement that the only time it would have been respected by the Constitution guaranteed 7% was in the last year of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I would also like to remind the DS gentlemen who have submitted this amendment, or to ask them, where have you been for the past four years? During the term of office of the previous government, the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians fought each time for the Constitution guaranteed 7% and what no one was talking about now is that in that 4th position of Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that indeed the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditure, which is extremely significant. So I'd like to point out that we're talking about three different amendments. One amendment was proposed by DS, or their parliamentary club, several MPs together. They explained it very well and we would support it, but our amendment is very similar and I would like to explain these differences. Of course, you have read in the media and many have transmitted that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has a similar amendment. To explain the differences – the DS asks to delete all this, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina has proposed an unreal amendment that the basis for calculating this volume of the budget be the expenditure side. I'd like to thank Mr. Minister who's here and ask him to pass on the position of the Duke Hungarian Union. So it is clear to us that this amendment proposed in this proposal to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Law applies to the extent of the budget, on the basis, in all cases where it is determined relatively, i.e. as a percentage of the budget. It is said little about one of the basic things that was actually meant to finance political parties, finance the regular work of political parties. It is interesting that the newspaper has been talking for days about still applying what is currently in force in the Budgetary System Act. So if income and income from the sale of non-financial assets were taken as a base, then this base would be exactly 829 and a half billion dinars. But if this bill is passed in this form, then that basis will be 700 billion, which is not safe. We don't know exactly from these tax revenues that these expenditures and expenses finance. The finance minister will know that. So we don't see from this what the basis is. Let's say that this is maximum, because he mentioned this maximum, so when we finance the regular work of political parties we admit that it will be now instead of these 829 billion and 700, that there is a difference, but when we ask the question, then it will negatively affect the AP Vojvodina and the AP Vojvodina budget, then the minister in his reply told us – you know, next year we plan bigger funds, etc. Of course, we understand that the 2013 budget is probably already being planned and we look forward to it here, but if then these planned tax revenues are going to be 850 billion that the minister mentioned to us here, then logically and overall revenues and receipts will be higher on the basis of the sale of financial assets. Let's say 900 billion. There was an AP Vojvodina then cut off for this amount of money. That is why we have proposed a very real amendment. We understand that in this situation we need to reduce the basis for funding the regular work of political parties, but it does not need to be reduced by AP Vojvodina. Not to mention what we've heard from respected colleagues that this is completely against the constitution. The Constitution says it's 7% of the budget, not 7% of the budget, and some part of the budget, because we're going to finance a certain part of the expenditure and expenses from these tax revenues. It's completely unrealistic, not to mention that the LSV is looking for a cost-effective side. That would be ideal, but we're aware that even during the previous government, it simply couldn't come. So please accept this real proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2465	Thank you. The next one came to Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2466	Dear colleagues, I wish only, not to question, of course, the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina and not to enter into the constitutionality of such a solution, to say in principle a few things and my vision. Namely, the Constitution cannot be broken any more or less. So, if we start from that thesis that the Constitution was broken by this one solution, it was also broken in the previous budget. This is where the basics question is raised. I'm trying to get him out of this solution right now, trying to justify him through a paradox. If the base is taken not only by tax revenues, but by income from non-financial assets, so the deficit and income from the sale of assets, we actually come to a paradox where the negative implications of the republican budget are positively affected in the province. What does that really mean? This 7% mechanism also represents a debt, i.e. a deficit of Serbia's and the minority's budget if it is larger, so much more funds belong to the AP Vojvodina. Of course, this is just my thinking as an economist and guided by some healthy logic I think we should go towards some solution, which is exactly tax revenues because they are stable, predictable, while the income from non-financial assets, sales, something that is unstable, subject to discretionary decisions, and in that sense I think this proposed solution is a far more stable and better guarantee for more stable funding. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2467	Thank you. The next word came from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2468	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly the LDP supports the amendment of the SVM, which was just spoken of by colleague Elvira Kovac. We support this amendment, first of all because LDP is indeed for the essential autonomy of the province of Vojvodina. This essential autonomy can only be achieved if at least the 2006 law is respected if funding for the province of Vojvodina is in a way. I would like to draw attention to the MPs that the LDP was not in favour of this constitution today. Then we boycotted the referendum and we said that this Constitution, that is, the adoption of this Constitution and how compromised, since we all remember how this referendum was implemented. However, as it is, it was brought to the table, it is currently the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If it's the current constitution, it means it should be respected. It should also be respected with regard to the financing of the Vojvodina, which is the case with Article 184 of the current Constitution and provides for and says exactly what percentage it is and exactly says which base, i.e. the budget. This member of the Constitution does not speak either of the ordinary or of the incoming part of the Constitution. He's just talking about the budget. Therefore, if those involved in the creation, writing, adoption and implementation of the entire referendum stories are not ready to respect the Constitution. What do you expect from the current government, then, because apparently the previous government didn't respect that Constitution either? She did not respect him for the percentage and as far as the basics were concerned, she declared herself advocating the previous rebalances, but essentially did not make the transfer and realized it. We now have a huge deficit in the province's budget precisely because the republican budget and how it owes the Vojvodina budget, especially in that fund envisaged for capital investments. Indeed, they admire fellow MPs who were part of the government in the previous term. When they're talking about how it should be today, when they're talking about how much they're pushing for duchy autonomy and that the Constitution on the financing of the Vojvodina is being respected, but I'd like to remind myself of this fact that they weren't so agile and they weren't so committed to respecting the constitutional obligation to finance the Vojvodina when they were in power. We simply have to accept this fact that there is one important element missing that respects this existing constitution with regard to the financing of the Vojvodina, and that is the law on the financing of the Vojvodina. As long as this law is not passed, it simply cannot be precisely, clearly and transparently determined what the 7% refers to, and for this reason the whole story of the Vojvodina financing remains quite non-transparent. I would draw your attention to the fact that the 2012 budget envisions approximately 64-65 billion dinars, while Belgrade's budget carries 99 billion. Belgrade has about 10 municipalities, while Vojvodina has 45 municipalities. So if we add all of this to the fact that Vojvodina is funding the republican budget by at least 28%, then we can see how Vojvodina is both symbolic and fundamentally, in some way, humiliated and derogated. So autonomy does not mean that we advocate that Vojvodina has autonomy, that this autonomy, as a term, is introduced into the Constitution, but that means that we essentially advocate, among other things, and that Vojvodina, not only gets what it belongs to, but it implies that it has a right to do so, and not as the government continues in continuity with this non-subsistence relationship with the entire Vojvodina, and this is achieved through relations with the Vojvodina budget. Therefore, I would really like to see, when the 2013 budget is discussed, we are discussing, among other things, how to make the most transparent financing of the Vojvodina budget. I'd like to say one more thing about the mining rent, which is extremely important for the financing of Vojvodina municipalities, and that mining rent is, I remind you, 3%. This is the mining rental provided for in that NIS sale agreement to a Russian state-owned company. The mining rent is scheduled to be applied for 30 years, and you know very well that the mining rent in Europe is approximately 15-20%, that Serbia also increased the percentage to seven, however, this Russian state-owned company continues to pay a 3 per cent mining rent, as agreed on at the state level. It is just another segment to show how the republican government refers to Vojvodina, to the very important province of the Republic of Serbia. You know what, when you ask the question of really fixing that autonomy of Vojvodina, that moment starts with another story and starts with a compromise of the idea of Vojvodina. The compromise goes from actually saying that autonomy will threaten Serbia's statehood, and quite possibly end in fact with the compromise and the idea through the compromise of the top important people in Vojvodina, both political and people with certain economic and economic influences in Vojvodina. Unfortunately, there's no way I can just blame and responsibility for this kind of rebalancing to put on current power, because I totally understand that it just had to be found some way to relax this excessive budget spending, and then it was found to get some kind of savings through Vojvodina. Because you're going to let, if your budget deficit is 68 billion, if you have such a big public consumption, almost double-digit inflation with a tendency to really be double-digit, if you have a recession, then it's quite easy to understand that you're looking for an opportunity to go somewhere and take it away to give it somewhere. I understand that the rest on that line of funding for public enterprises, that is, the rest on the line of some state interventionism through massive subsidies, because we have doubled literally those subsidies for "Fiyat", but if in this way we treat this public spending, which was largely generalized by the previous government with its budget, but continued to do the same thing to the current government, then the question is, why is it so difficult to come up with Vojvodina, so at least to allow it to finance how the Constitution provides? If you literally increase the budget deficit by 50% from the one you found in the previous government, it just shows that you're trying to put out fire with oil, because how are you actually going to save if you increase consumption? There's a lot of stories to be told, a lot of good wishes to show up, but the essence remains the same, remains a huge budget deficit, which is actually talking about the credibility of those who created this budget rebalance and their intentions in which they will continue to think about this great public spending. I am also talking about the fact that some important segments of this budget rebalancing remain unexplained and give opportunity to re-determinate the Vojvodina in a very non-transparent way. Unfortunately, lately, it has often occurred that Vojvodina is actually the victim of such a relationship between the Republic government, the Constitutional Court, etc. So, we in Vojvodina do not want to endanger the Republic budget in any way, we do not want to bring the position of the Vojvodina in relation to Serbia in terms of the threat of territorial integrity and sovereignty, you know already how this mantra is going, but also how we expect those who have sworn and still swear to the existing Constitution to respect it, even if it is in favour of the Vojvodina, because it will certainly not be at the expense of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2469	Just to let you know, at the beginning of your presentation, you said you were in favour of the LSV amendment. Let me remind you, we're on this DS amendment now, so I didn't want to interrupt you, but that's the next amendment you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2470	I said I support the SVM amendment, given that the colleague spoke and said that she would now talk about its amendment, since the previous amendment in the government's explanation included in fact all these amendments and the reasons why she refuses amendments LSV and DS and SVM. So I did make it clear that I support the SVM amendment, and the colleague also spoke in the context of the amendment on the SVM amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2471	Thank you. The next word came from MP Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2472	I'll use the MP's time. There are a few things I would say about this amendment, of course, given what the previous speakers said. First, I would like to thank Mr Palalic for the very principled position of the DSS, which also believes the constitution should be respected in this part and which says they have respected the Constitution during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's something to be appreciated. Of course, in any way I did not think that the agreement between the Republic and the province administration should be past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, these agreements, of course, must move within the frameworks of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The other thing that is important is to try to protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in this sense I call on the President of the Republic of Serbia not to sign such a law, because a declaration of compliance with the Constitution would be the opposite if he signed such a law. Third, I was talking about the three problems this law faces and brings us into trouble, therefore, economically, politically and constitutionally. So far, we have not had this problem of respecting the Constitution when it comes to the previous government and when it comes to the government of Vojislav Kostunica, so the constitution was respected. No one has raised the issue of constitutionality on this issue, not even the SVM that tried to impose its concerns tonight on the AP Vojvodina budget and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's no accident that Mr. Pastor insisted on speaking before time, now everything is seen for what reason it was. I understand the SVM's representatives remember the government of Vojislav Kostunica with their memory and that they are trying in some way to be in correct relations with the existing government. It is quite understandable, given their position to protect the position, in part, so to speak, of Hungarians living in Serbia, but that position and position of Hungarians protects the DS as well. Certainly, the LDP and the LSV are willing to do so, but they cannot deny DS rights to seek the protection of the Constitution and cannot deny the achievements that DS has made in the protection of minority rights. Not to mention the adoption of legislation on National Councils, not to mention the implementation of a number of international conventions and concerns the DS has seen as the position of minorities in the Republic of Serbia, and in that sense, I think that they are incorrect insinuations and colleagues from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and colleagues from the Liberal Democratic Party. In this regard, the equalisation of the previous government with its current leader, who is the representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, who have a special responsibility not to put us in an awkward situation because of such an unconstitutional provision. In that sense, I again urge the government's representatives to reconsider this issue and to reconsider the possibility of accepting the Democratic Party's amendment on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2473	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2474	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, has been mentioned so many times by the Alliance of Duke Hungarians, Mr. Pastor, that I think I have the right to several replicas, but I will try to be as brief as possible. I just asked the Democratic Party what they've been doing over the past few years and why the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians was almost lonely when fighting for respect with the Constitution guaranteed, but not only 7%, but 3/7 for capital investment, which is significant. It's not enough that the paper says there's enough resources, they just leak through the Dukean budget, like the salaries of educators np, etc. But first, I've been waiting a long time to get to the lineup, and I'd like to replicate to Mr. Ilic, who answered immediately after my presentation. Mr. Ilichu, there are three amendments. We all want the same thing, we just formed it in three different ways. Our amendment concerns that we understand that you want to cut expenditure, if it can be called so, to finance the regular work of political parties, but we don't understand why the AP Vojvodina must suffer for it. That is why we have proposed an amendment where, exceptionally, when the tail is on the AP Vojvodina, as it was in the previous law that we all supported, total income and income are achieved on the basis of the sale of non-financial assets. Like I said, it's 829 billion. We didn't ask for, so the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina had a more unrealistic amendment asking for these expenses, then it would be 1,018 billion. That would really involve that deficit you were talking about. Although many of us have talked about who respects the Constitution and we compete here in politics, and the fact is that the Constitution is not respected. Although I do not want to open many topics here, as the gentleman who spoke before me has opened, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians has supported the previous government and we have been those who have fought that there are ministries of human and minority rights, to pass the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, etc. We are now a constructive opposition. I don't want to court the Democratic Party of Serbia, far from it. I was just stating the facts. We are really glad that the government of the AP Vojvodina has woken up and is going to ask for an assessment of the constitutionality, that we are fighting together for a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2475	Thank you. The word is Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2476	I am neither a lawyer nor an even less expert on constitutional law, in order to be able to judge on the issues of constitutionality of the provisions of the law on which amendments are put, several of them, very similar content, but it is very important to explain what is really the will of the promoter with which our MP group is very well and directly familiar because it also had direct motives to understand the subject of this dispute. So, as the United Regions of Serbia and myself, I will not vote for any of these amendments, not even in this most correct, finest version that has just been interpreted by my colleague Elvira Kovac, not because we may have something against the AP, but because it is a complete replacement of the thesis, it is not at all about the relationship of the promoter to Vojvodina's autonomy, it is not even about reducing financial resources in the perspective of Vojvodina's autonomy, but it is trying to policyise this issue in a completely inappropriate way and I want to explain it. I don't think that's potent enough. That is why it is important for the United Regions of Serbia to say this to me, because it is likely that our relationship with local self-government issues is indisputable, whether it is autonomy, regional self-government or self-government in local self-government units. The complete affirmation of this principle is a programming principle. You can also see the RS political document on the regionalisation of Serbia, which was made in partnership with the European Institute for Regionalism and the President of the European Institute, Professor Shauzberger. There you can see clearly how much we respect the autonomy of the Vojvodina as one civilizational and cultural historical fact that is for the sake of modern political history of Serbia. It's undeniable. My party Together for Shumadija, even in several political documents, points out, personally in a series of essays I write about, that in fact Šumadija and Vojvodina are the origins of modern Serbia, that this is a cultural and civilization and historical context of the Serbian Podunovre, in which the impulse of the Serbian civil revolution was born and that a happy Serbia was created before which every parliamentary discussion always takes place. He's completely undeniable, and I'll be pathetic, and I love Vojvodina, and let alone that I just want to be politically respected, but this isn't about it at all. It is a trivial fact that the finance ministry wants to increase the transparency of budget funds in their circulation in the process of consolidation of public finances. That's all it's about. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic has explicitly said in the figures that the next budget, the AP Vojvodina budget issue, is also in mind and that it will be increased in funds. So this legislative proposal that the amendment is acting on won't lead to a reduction in the AP funds, quite the opposite. It's explicitly confirmed, given as a promise that the level of these funds will rise. But what this definition of the finance ministry is interested in is a commitment to this income category, tax revenues because of the transparency of the entire financing process. You know, it's a very rough provision of 7% of the budget. What's the budget? Since the budget is basically a plan and, of course, the natural tendency of the users of the budget to equate the budget with its dissipating side. Just like the natural tendency of the authorities in charge of budgeting to view it primarily as an income side. Then we can discuss by morning what 7% of the budget is, but this only leads to the precise way of funding from the republican budget of the AP Vojvodina and to the disappearance of the reasons for the future unnecessary, fire-fighting, political coloring of fiscal and financial issues. So the motivation that I won't vote for any of these amendments has nothing to do with my relationship with history, contained and the political status of the APV. We're being suggested and I'm asking everyone to understand it that way. This is primarily related to our relationship with the problem of financial consolidation and future creation of businesses and the development of fiscal policy towards an increasing degree of transparency.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2477	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2478	I really didn't think I was answering my word, but Mr. Milanic, whom I very much appreciate, kind of provoked me to answer, just for the sake of the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2479	Excuse me, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2480	No, no. I'm using the MP's time to keep this debate from being extended, really, really well-intentioned. So I highly appreciate Mr. Milenic and his essay, but this is not about essays or poetry or prose. This is about respecting the Constitution. The constitution, article 184, says -- the APV budget is at least 7% compared to the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is written in the bill does not specify this constitutional provision but creates a new provision of the opposite constitution, which says that APV income is 7% of budget revenues, and budget revenues differ from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and total revenues, as total revenues are made from budget revenues, other revenues and donations. So, financially speaking, about 180 or how many billions are on an annual level, and in this sense it is both a constitutional category and an economic category and it is not about any precision but a provision that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is what I wanted to say for the citizens of Serbia, so that it wouldn't be thought that this is some kind of precision, some kind of misunderstanding. This isn't about any precision, and that's what I'm suggesting, and I'm saying. There's no money we won't respect the Constitution. Of course, just a little bit in a different form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2481	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2482	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here I would like to replicate with one replica both Mr. Veselinović and Mr. Milenić. Here, my dear colleagues, where is the Law on the financing of the Province of Vojvodina that was supposed to be passed six years ago? You've been in power for four years, you've been coalition partners. You brought the budget, the LDP voted against the budget. So, within that budget, there was also the financing of Vojvodina. We voted against such a way of funding the Vojvodina, and in particular we were against the fact that even in such a determined way the financing was made to fail, so that those 7% of the Constitution of the guaranteed were not respected. You were in power when the NIS was sold. It's completely below the price. Four hundred million euros in 2011 were shown the company's profits. You've been in power, so you can't get rid of that responsibility. Now there's one party in position, the other in power again. So we expect to finally understand that, in addition to the privileges of power, there are some responsibilities. The responsibility is to respect the current Constitution. The responsibility is to do everything to fund the APV. What's the problem if we insist on math? You know that story about brothers and sisters and bags, right? So I would remind you that there is a drastic difference between 829 billion and 700 billion. So that's the difference that's very important in determining how much from the republican budget it's going to transfer to the province budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2483	National MP Elivira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2484	Replication to Mr Milenic's presentation, which mentioned me by my name and by my last name and in part and one earlier exposure. Exactly what we just heard from colleague Judith Popovic. Mr. Pastor Ballint reported today about 1800 hours to speak, when he didn't get his word, precisely because we received information that the finance minister would leave at seven o'clock. We wanted to ask him if we could hope that this government will in the near future respect what the Constitution commits to, to pass a law on the financing of APV. Then we wouldn't have these problems we're having right now. We have constantly asked the previous government, but unfortunately that law has not yet been passed. There was talk of transparency here. The government and finance minister say the solution proposed is more transparent. Please, the proposal that stands now in this law, the amendment we're talking about, is that now, for the foundation, expenditures financed from tax revenues should be taken. Please, whoever read this proposal of rebalancing doesn't see what that amount is. So we see that tax revenues are planned for 700 billion 643 million dinars. It's tax revenues. We do not know what is the amount of these expenditures financed from tax revenues, because it is not known from which sources and types of income individual expenditures and expenditures will be financed. That's the only thing the finance minister and a few people around him will know, which is the amount. So if this is adopted this way, we'll never know if it's actually respected by that 7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2485	Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2486	It's really my last call since I've got two minutes left to propose the amendment. I'd like to highlight what was least discussed. Everyone knows that with every budget and rebalancing, so far we've fought alone, hopefully in the future along with the others will fight for those 7%. The problem is that within those 7% of the constitution requires that at least 7% be forgotten, it is not 7% but at least 7%, and three weeks should provide for capital investments. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we've had problems with budget implementation. These three weeks, even though it was never planned, it was never done. And the Capital Investment Fund has huge problems with its functioning, huge debts. In the past five years, these debts, i.e. the lack of that money that should have been transferred, and in the end it has not been transferred to such a level that in the past five years, when the debt is collected, how much the Republic should have transferred the APV or that Capital Investment Fund, when all of this is added up and multiplied by one whole budget, the entire annual budget of the APV, and we should pay attention to that. I am truly sorry and I am aware that the Minister of Science, Education and Education cannot answer my question when the law on funding will be passed, but we hope that the Minister of Finance will be here. I ask you once again to consider this real amendment to the Duke Hungarian Union by the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2487	National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have been tabled by the amendment Article 3. Proposer Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of the spending of public funds, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory considers the amendment to be in line with the constitution and the legal system, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2488	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 amending Article 18 of the Budgetary System Act. The fact is, in Article 12, compensation was defined. The fees are defined which can exist and these are defined -the fees can be made for the use of goods that are specifically defined by law as natural resources, i.e. good of general interest and good in general use. It's defined in terms of compensation, which benefits exist. The fact is that this is unclearly determined according to other fees that also exist, which do not often pay local self-government units. That's what DSS colleagues pointed out when it comes to fees for the use of construction land and some other fees. So this isn't quite clearly defined. I believe that technically, when this law has been passed, the provisions of Articles 13 and 14 of the uniform methodological rules in terms of transitional and final provisions and provisions under other fees are not adequate. Is the other fees still valid or not valid or will only apply those fees proposed by special law and implemented by the Ministry of Finance? The fact is that the Ministry was responsible for environmental affairs and environmental protection was competent in respect of the Environmental Protection Act. I come from Pancheva, a place where there are certain problems with the threat of the environment. The fact is that this status of the endangered environment, where I come from, has been established by UNEP, a specialised UN organisation, which has found that Panchevo, as well as Bor, as some other places in Serbia, have such status. We recognize the UN, confess all of it. Exactly on the basis of Article 87. Environmental protection laws shall be charged for the protection and promotion of the environment, particularly for the transport of oil and petroleum products, as well as raw materials, products and semi-products, chemical and other hazardous materials from industry and for the industry in the territory of the unit of local self-government with the status of the endangered environment in the area of significance for the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that only on the first day of the bombing of our homeland on a railway line between two stations, right next to the house where the people live, was the amount of 1,600 tons of chlorine. God forbid it's been hit, the whole of Panchevo would probably be dead, too, including Ovca, Borch and part of Karaburma. At that very time, in a situation where the first civilian victims were in Aleksinac, the amount of dangerous matter, or liquid ammonia, was sufficient to kill anything that spreads within 35 to 40 kilometers of wind. We now have huge amounts of dangerous matter being overloaded and transported through densely populated parts of the city. Not to mention the amount of oil, oil derivatives and other dangerous substances. The fact is that Pančevci live practically on a bomb and the situation is such that, according to official data, human health status and children are such that statistics are much worse than in many other places in Serbia. According to official data from the Public Health Institute if every grown man in Serbia gets 1.1 times a year, it was 1.5 in Panchev. The children had two to three averages in Serbia, and we had about five. I'm not saying that it's all of what we have a situation to pollute, but the fact that there's a big industry emissions in the matter of overload and there's a big and there's an image, so what they're receiving from citizens is breathing air. I specifically have a family situation where a younger child has taken as many corticosteroids as possible to breathe. That is why I believe that there must be an extremely responsible state relationship, and so far there has been a reduction in the ecological burden that affects the citizens of Panchev and precisely to raise funds and reduce the overall environmental burden, so that we can greenen the city, so that we can reduce all these risks, so that we can reduce the transport in terms of local roads, and not to scrape somewhere a truck, so that it can start to pour out ammonia and what. All of this is important, and that is why it was important for us to keep environmental protection compensation valid. At the session of the Financial Committee on 18th, I have asked the Minister explicitly again today about the fate and the compensation and I am satisfied with the position that has been said. To clarify, as far as the environmental tax is concerned, everything as it's formally called, it's not abolished, it remains the income of those that have been at the local level so far. It makes me extremely happy and I believe that it was our obligation and my obligation to talk about it here, that the government's representative practically confirms that it is, that it is the right will of the legislator and that the National Assembly when it votes for the law knows what it voted for. So she voted to remain in force for Article 87. The Law on the Protection of the Environment, so that tomorrow there is no need to give authentic interpretation, because giving authentic interpretation implies procedure as well as the adoption of a new law. In that sense, I felt that the obligation to definitely talk about this, especially given the end of the reasoning given in the Government's opinion, where it is said -- starting from that, there is no need for special regulation by seizing the compensation for protecting and improving the environment and the law which will cover all the necessary fees. So, there's little going back that one law will regulate all fees. I'm interested in keeping that article 87 valid anyway. A law on environmental protection. One more thing to tell you is that I don't think it's legally properly written, or that it's a provision without legal force. That's the attitude of Article 18, reading it just like this. The fees referred to in Article 1(1) shall not be imposed by any other law other than the law and the position of the 2nd member. That's good in the sense that it stands in some policy, so when it comes to determining the policy of the ministry, the government's policy, what we want. It may be in the prime minister's exposé or the ministry's views, but the very provision that we say by law that something will not be able to enter into another law from a constitutional and legal point of view is not properly written. We do not have a hierarchy of legal regulations within Serbia. We have a constitution and we have laws. So we can't tell what to do with the future law or not to do. I take this as a political commitment. It makes sense for that political commitment to know all the fees, but practically this provision doesn't have to be in that part. I'll be happy and unless the amendment itself is adopted, but it's important that we get on the tide here, what will enter the stenogram, what all Serbian citizens will see is whether or not the article 87. A law on environmental protection to apply to environmental protection and improvement benefits, as Mr. Minister told us on the Committee, just as he told us here in the tide, about the compensation for the use of construction land and some other fees. So that's why I'm asking you to keep it on record and to know the practical interpretation of what we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2489	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2490	Just a little clarification. Exactly what Mr. Mikovic said, certainly, you are absolutely right, does not produce a legal fact because other than the Constitution, constitutional law, as you know exactly the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for what is, all other legal acts do not exist established hierarchy, but this attitude is very important, confirms the definition, but it is very important in the legislative process, because, as you know, when the law is passed, you have to consult a whole series of competent ones, as it is a specific area, I also understand that the intention was to suggest to future ministries, which in some area are being asked, in an attempt to introduce, that there is simply a legal basis for negative opinion in the legislative process, but of course does not prevent the law. You're absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2491	Thank you. The word has Marjan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am simply touched by the discussion of one of the previous speakers about the protection of the environment, but I remember a president of the Pancheva municipality, who said in 1999 during the bombing, to the citizens of Pancheva – you are not afraid, the smoke is not heading towards Pancheva, but is heading towards Starcheva and Omoljica, so that the citizens of the municipality were second row, i.e. the citizens of the village around Pancheva. I would also support everything about environmental protection, so I would support those Dulic batteries that have been imported, so for which recycling has been isolated from the Environmental Protection Fund, if I have distributed a billion and 100 million dollars well for 140 tonnes. (President: Mr. Risticevic, please come back on the subject. ) He would support these 70 dinars for paying for a kilo of batteries only for recycling. I'd support everything, and it looks like it's harder to breathe, as far as I can see, for 12 years they haven't been keeping track of anything, now suddenly they're crying, it looks like they've been breathing harder, just for the last 45 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2493	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2494	First of all, I would talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because I think the speaker pleaded offensively about the second speaker because just in 1999, during the bombing of Panchev, I was the president of the Pancheva Municipality. I was the one who organized everything that was to be organized in these most difficult days for my fellow citizens, and in that sense I think you should intervene and prevent someone from making such a statement. It's the first thing, and especially being alone... (President: You did not tell us Mr. Mikovic – which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? ) Article 107. (President: Okay, 107) Secondly, I have a right to do so in terms of the right to replication. However, I want to tell you that the issue of environmental protection and improvement compensation was also a topic in 2009. In 2009, too, there was an attempt to abolish environmental protection and improvement fees, and I was able to insist and convince my fellow Members, MPs, and here on the tide to vote for protection and improvement of the environment. That fee was not accepted at the outset. It was not accepted, but given the argument presented in the debate, above all on the Committee on Environmental Protection, chaired by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, and attended by representatives from all political parties, the session was held on amendments to the small hall, in that second building of the National Assembly, and we managed to convince you. (President: You're out of time. I have the right to a replica. I resented you for not... [[President: Do you have any injuries to your Rules of Procedure or replica? You first reported...]] (President: may I first plead to what you have resented me? You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2495	If you have noticed, I have warned the People's Messenger in the course of his exposure, and he has ended very quickly. You're the one who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we've listened to you, you've run out of time. You can't report on two basiss at the same time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2496	I ask – do I have the right to a replica? Your discretionary right, you may not give me the right to replication. (President: No, just work, go ahead. In any case, since I was obviously misread here, I presented very briefly what happened in the area of Pancheva in 1999. It's very short, because we know very well how long it's been for every citizen who's been in Pancheva, and I know in what way we've tried to reduce the risks, and I know in what way every night we've been from one part of the city that's directly based on industrial plants, sheltering people to have a spare time for possible evacuation and removal of the lateral direction of wind stretching. And then we had a lot of problems about how to provide everything needed for water supply, about supplying everything else so that it could work, and don't forget, industrial plants in one part, and for that time they worked, and that's why we know very well what happened. We know how many tons of live have gone to earth. We know how much VSM went into the air, we know how much ethylene dichloride is, too, spilled, not to talk about it all. All of this exists in an official UNP report after the bombing, what happened in Pancheva, and that's why. I thought the citizens of Panchev deserve a special respect when it comes to environmental protection and improvement, because it's 150,000 people who practically live on a bomb every day and carry all these risks.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2497	Thank you. On the 16th amendment with the correction, MPs Nenad Popovic, Jovan Palalic and Ruzica Igic together submitted. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2498	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we had a chance about 15-20 minutes ago to listen to a debate about whether and in what way the government broke the Constitution, i.e. Is the constitution of 7% of the Serbian budget, which is assigned to the AP Vojvodina, respected? The largest number of discussions is that it is not clear from the budget at all, whether or not this provision is respected. Also, our parliamentary group has noticed that, when it comes to funding or budgeting or anything related to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, it remains very controversial in this budget. We talked about it today, and in the previous days, and it concerns the financing of the powers declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court's decision. We simply cannot see from the draft budget rebalancing, and we have tried these days, the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, to ask the minister, to get an answer – how will we control the spending of funds relating to a series of competences, 22 powers, which the Constitutional Court has challenged, in particular by looking at statements coming from representatives of the province's authorities, which consist of completely deafening themselves to decisions of the Constitutional Court, or at the very end of the line, devalue all that the Constitutional Court has said, looking for ways to keep these provisions in place, such as so-called. The representativeship of the AP Vojvodina in Brussels, as is funding a series of so-called The Academy of Science of Vojvodina. Or, the issue by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we talked about today, which does not want to take over the powers that belong to it under the Constitutional Court's decision, which is Fruska Gora National Park. Generally when viewed, a previous period relating to the spending of funds under the AP Vojvodina, we can conclude that there was no control. The other day here, the local self-government minister said that the funds identified for the NIP had been transferred to Vojvodina, never received a report saying the funds had been spent. So we have one complete non-transparency of spending funds on AP Vojvodina space, and we are particularly interested in whether the government that is silent now, the AP that is silent, will come into a situation to spend funds on unconstitutional jurisdiction. We want our amendment to strengthen control and to define it as the obligation of the competent authorities – control of the spending of these funds. We cannot accept, as colleagues here pointed out, that the Constitution is not respected. We will insist on this provision and we will insist on controlling the funds transferred to the AP Vojvodina, for every dinar, because this is the only way to respect the Constitution, and in the previous period this constitution was not respected in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2499	Thank you. It's Dejan Michael's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2500	On behalf of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I want to say something under this amendment. The Ministry of Finance under the Budgetary System Act, generally as a ministry that takes care of the implementation of the budget and the control of budget spending in all other bodies that are responsible, must and is its obligation to control how those 7% are spent, whether they will be accounted for by expenditure or revenue, or already in what way, must control how those 7% that go to Vojvodina will be used, and especially those three weeks that go to that capital investment fund. As Mrs Kalanovic said, we have not received any reports of this in recent years. We listened here to a debate between coalition partners at the province level and former coalition partners at the republican level – SVM and DS about who is responsible for why you don't get 7% or this or that, but when you need to share money in Vojvodina, that's where everyone gets a nice deal. The money that was distributed in Vojvodina didn't end up in Pancheva, which is such an endangered environment, but ended up in some other places and for which projects, you don't know. Never has this assembly received a report, although these are budget funds, nor will they receive a report for the previous year, since when capital investments exist and since when there is a new constitution that gives them 7%. As DSS, we insist that we know exactly where these funds are going, to get a report in the final budget account on which this assembly is due each year. Our objective and this amendment and only the obligation arising from the Budgetary System Act, which we are now talking about, is to know exactly how the funds going to Vojvodina are being spent. That's one thing. The second thing, the Constitutional Court has put away 22 provisions of the law and we also want to know in which way and when will the Republic of Serbia assume jurisdiction over the matter that belongs to it, i.e. by placing a provision out of force, the Constitutional Court has declared it unconstitutional, the National Park of Fruska Gora is an example and some other institutions at the level of the Republic and when and will the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year be set up? Just to remind you, the Constitutional Court's decision is applicable by its own publication. No special act shall be required on the basis of which the decision of the Constitutional Court will apply. It is self-applicable and that decision has to be implemented and respected by all. There is no possibility of any settlement between the authorities, political parties and anyone else, foreign embassies, or anyone who participates in these agreements, but rather the responsibility of this assembly to do so. We're also listening to stories here that no law has been passed on the financing of the province. The same parties that sat in the republic and province authorities sat down and had the opportunity to pass a law on financing the province for four years. Here's the fifth year. Now they're complaining about each other for not being brought in. We would also like that law to be passed, because through that law we could determine exactly how to control and see the resources spent. This is how we're going to get cases like the Vojvodina Development Bank, the Capital Investment Fund, where I don't think even the Executive Major of Vojvodina has any insight into what's going on and what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2501	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2502	I do not support this amendment, because this amendment practically puts all those who need to be controlled in different situations, and all of them need to be controlled. It's a good explanation. Here, I'd agree with the government's position if it were a member of 84. The Law on the Budgetary System found that the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance's operations amongst other things was carried out by inspection and by autonomous provinces, and by Article 86, where the office of the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance and the control of the application of the law in the field of material and finance and dedicated and legal use of funds, the beneficiary of the budget of autonomous provinces. In any case, there is always the possibility of controlling budget funds, and I know well that at least at the level of the government of the AP Vojvodina, there is a knowledge of what is being done, and that is confirmed by the attitude of the people of Vojvodina in the previous elections, to know what is being done, because this is exactly the kind of government that has been given the great trust of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2503	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2504	Mr. Mikovic, based on all reports, even ministers who were in the current government and were in the previous government, based on how the previous province administration functioned, we concluded that no one controlled anything in Vojvodina. When we look at the situation of spending funds from the NIP, when we look at the situation of what is now going on in the Development Bank, when we look at the debts that exist in the Capital Investment Fund, we see that no one was allowed to touch the finances in Vojvodina. We really insist, since such a situation has been created in the previous period, that the competent institutions are under increased control, the spending of funds in Vojvodina. You know what, when this situation is about fund control in Vojvodina, then it's about fund-making, resistance, anti-centralisation movements, everything that should be examined whether there were problems in the functioning and spending of funds. It is true that certain laws define ways and forms of control, but precisely because of the experience we have in the previous period, I believe it is necessary to carry out a thorough and clear control of the spending of funds in the previous period in the institutions of Vojvodina. I don't see why that would be a problem if everything was okay. Why wouldn't that be supportive? Even if everything were fine and transparent and legally spent, you should be happy to support it. But I'm afraid it wasn't exactly like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2505	Thank you. Mr. Michael, come in. Here you go. [[Dejan Mihajlov, from the place: Do I have the right to a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2506	Thank you. If we talk, since a lot of words these days were about the feud of the ministries in Serbia and the rest, one of the most famous feuds in modern Serbia is Vojvodina. It's a feud DS and Bojan Pitiæ, so we understand each other. No one's ever had a chance to get involved in anything. That's right now. If we're talking about whether he's in control or out of control? Well, there's no control. And based on political agreements in the DS, which he had an agreement with Boris Tadic, and he had a deal -- don't touch me, I won't touch you until now. Now that deal is gonna make, probably, with Gilas -- don't touch me, I won't touch you. He made a feud out of the AP Vojvodina and the Dukean budget turned it into some property, where the DS was the one who exclusively decided how the funds would be spent. The municipalities at the level of the Vojvodina, in which the DS was not in power, could neither favour the Capital Investment Fund, the Regional Fund, nor the Vojvodine Development Bank. But that's why municipalities where DS was in power, Indjia, or whatever else, they were getting out of that fund by hand and hat. That's true, Mr. Mikovic. We can convince ourselves here whether it's like this or not, but let's make one independent control of the spending of those funds and see where these funds ended and whether they ended up just there code, I can't exactly tell the farmers of Mr. Pitiæ, but those who supported his great men. That's where those funds ended. Unfortunately, but these are facts. You're from Vojvodina, we're both from Pancheva, we know how much Panchevo got from the capital fund. It didn't get much. The municipalities where DS isn't in power didn't get anything. These are the facts and that is the policy that existed in Vojvodina. Let us once introduce control and try to bring into order all public finances in Serbia, to create a system, where everyone who needs to receive equal, not those who are politically privileged, or who are from the same party will get more, and some who are not, will do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2507	Mr. Mikovic, the replica, right? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2508	I'm not sure it's right to mention that they're big men, or they're not big ones, I think it's a little graphic, they're hours late, so we're not looking for the chairman's intervention on that. However, I disagree with you that there is only one person to control. We need to control everything. I didn't notice anyone raised the question of the objectivity of the operation of the DRI. There's a possibility, there's even a commitment that anywhere where there's a possible doubt, there's an obligation to control it. There are obligations and other state authorities to do their job. Don't just say that absolutely all of these can be influenced by Mr. Pajtic, who is the senior prime minister of the AP and his associates. There is absolutely a possibility of control, and I think there is absolutely no way to question the independence of all these institutions. You're right. We're both from Panchev. True, I'm still living in Pancheva, you've gone near the temple of St. Sava, but you know the problems in Pancheva, I don't dispute that. You were in a position to participate in the local government in Panchev, you were in a position to share responsibility there, anyway. That is why I believe that we are all tasked, above all, to fight for the control of all institutions in the state and the conduct and republican, and the province, and the local authorities and absolutely every place in the state. In that sense, I support you, but I wouldn't just pull some out of control and others wouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2509	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not vote for these amendments, for a few of them in a series where they talk about those 7% for Vojvodina, etc. A very clear explanation has been given by the Government and we know very well what situation we are in and why we are bringing this kind of budget rebalancing today. I want to take the opportunity to remind everyone why and what the situation is right now, and exactly what we're hearing about now at 21.05, for a long time now, the story of whether or not the Constitution is being respected or not for those 7%, related to the amendments that have been submitted. Let me remind you that our deficit is 7.1% of GDP, or a billion euros. This year a billion and 200 million, about. Only for interest this year we have to pay 66 billion dinars, and next year, whatever we do, 93 billion just for interest is waiting for us to pay. Just for interest. Without a consolidation plan, there is indeed a Greek scenario ahead of us. Whoever's talking about us panicking and scaring people with the bankruptcy of the state won't come because of this government's responsibility. The deficit is 225 billion dinars. Who did this? Our people say, "How can you ask the right questions and how can you not make them?" This budget rebalance is precisely because of the previous government, which has mixed it all up and now needs to be corrected. What's going on with this rebalancing thing? I'll remind you, one pay less is scheduled for the railroad. This has got to make up for it. The miners' salaries at Resavica. The drought was unseen, unremembered by us. The agricultural budget has been increased. The subsidies for agriculture have been increased. Where does it go if not the most in Vojvodina? Where do agricultural subsidies go if not the most in Vojvodina, because there was the greatest damage? We're working out of an empty register and doing everything we can. Public debt has increased to 56%, contrary to the law, and now we're listening to stories. I'm glad this is what the citizens are looking at about the Capital Investment Fund and the Vojvodina Development Bank. And where are the farmers of the Vojvodina and the damage they experienced with the drought, where is it? The Capital Investment Fund and the Vojvodina Development Bank are important. Of course they're important. But unfortunately, the previous government, in this House, I was talking in 2008 about "Metals Bank", its business and the Sharics, who have all been privatized alive by the guarantees of the bank. What about that bank now? This bank has become the Vojvodine Development Bank. That bank is the Vojvodine Development Bank. She's turned into that, touched and turned into that. Instead of the government doing what is now being done with Agrobank, she made Metals the Bank of Vojvodina Development Bank. I'm glad the citizens are watching you keep fighting for money and for funds, but there will be control, as well as wherever you need to be. This government will take care of how money is spent everywhere, including in Vojvodina, and in the province government. They won't be able to get out of the empty register, from the poor people, anymore to be taken for what is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2511	Mr. Veselinović, on what basis are you answering? By hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2512	You probably assumed, you let the first MP from the DSS, and then the SNS MP, until nearly the DSS MPs, speak beyond the Rules of Procedure. It's not a problem when... (President: Excuse me, which member? ) Article 106. (President: Article 106) What attitude? I have to follow you, what to do. ) Therefore, Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. There's no need to remind you and try to end this debate correctly. We in the DS didn't react when colleagues tried to expand the subject a little bit and talk about the amendment by attacking the DS and the previous government. However, we cannot and will not allow them to insult people who are not present, officials of the former republican government, or the current regional government. You simply had to warn them. I repeat once again, today you had unequal principles. You warned Mr Oliver Dulic and punished them, and you did not warn them. Please have the same criteria and try to bring this debate to an end, because we're already working for five days, practically, up to 24 hours, so if we could finish this day without a replica, because we'd have something to say about what our colleagues said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2513	Thank you. However, as far as I recall, the MP from your party also spoke about Panchev and everything Mr. Michael talked about. Also, Mr. Shormaz tried to explain why such a solution was given in the Budgetary System Act. So, I think we've acted completely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2514	Article 103. So, first Article 27, since you're obliged to take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. In relation to Article 103, I will also state the position of Article 103, even though I am not obliged to state my position. Why don't I owe you? Because Article 103 provides that the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. A colleague, Janko Veselinovic, said he was a member. You asked him what attitude? You have nothing to ask him what attitude. It's enough to tell him which member and explain it. So, in that sense, I think you asked for a more detailed statement than he owed. I don't think you were right. The second thing, when I was talking about Panchev, I was talking about the amendment that I proposed and explained why my amendment should be accepted. All my other addresses were about Rules of Procedure or replicas. I wasn't talking about the subject outside, and I was having a discussion about the amendment right now. One more thing, I'm sure that when you held the session and you gave me your word and you didn't interrupt me, when you let me go to the end, you absolutely respected me in that section of the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise the Constitution would say, you missed the Rules of Procedure and you made a mistake. So, in that sense, I think you had a good session, when you weren't interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2515	Thank you. Let me explain your objection - why did I ask what attitude? In Article 103(2), there is a provision that reads - the MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been pointed out. Since article 6 has multiple views and does not apply to only one injury, I would not violate the Rules of Procedure and allow someone to repeat mistakes, so I ask what attitude. Please let me continue to conduct the session as I think I should. Mr. Shormaz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2516	I'll be real quick. So article 107. – The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and at the session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. That's what my colleague apostrophysed for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I think, on the one hand to me, he's now bidding whose MP I was. I was not an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, as I am not an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party, a colleague. I'm a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, and I'm a folk MP, and as you feel, that's your business. You have the right to do that, but don't tell me what I am and how I am, and that's how I feel, and I act and I treat. I claim I haven't said a word, and I agree with the Vice President, I broke the Rules of Procedure, because I didn't mention a single name, I didn't insult anyone, and I was talking about the agenda point, and I said I shouldn't accept the amendment that's being discussed and explained why. It also says nicely in the explanation of the government who refused the amendment why. Just on the grounds of the suspicions that have been added, and I guess in the course of the speech, I have the right to add, that all and everyone will be controlled, and of course the province government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2517	Mr. Mikovic, on what basis are you now answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2518	Article 107(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2519	That seems to me earlier, Article 107. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2520	Thank you. So last time I spoke to you about Article 103(4), and now because of Article 107(2). - for direct address. Believe me, I've never spoken to you before without asking and receiving a word from the chairman of the National Assembly, and you asked me to allow you to continue. I absolutely did not stop any of my actions from going any further. So when I finish the show, I sit down, turn off the microphone, and I don't keep it going.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2521	We're continuing the session. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic, Miroslav Petkovic, together submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2522	After this wonderful debate that we've been hearing for the last hour about how great everything was in Panchev in the past four years, just as of today or yesterday, everything started to be great. So, in Article 21, we proposed that salaries and pensions be paid instead of aligning themselves with the rise in inflation and consumer prices, they should be brought into line with the growth of the gross social product. We think it's much more realistic and normal that as much as GDP grows in the country, wages and pensions are increasing so much. Otherwise, we can go on forever and artificially increase wages and pensions, and we don't have the basis for real life, that the economy doesn't produce so much, and that we have to borrow and enter the deficit, and that's what's happening to us right now. I think it's perfectly normal and logical. I guess it's in every country that as much as your gross social product grows, you can raise your wages and pensions. It's the only system that's sustainable. Since we have heard the current government's promises that inflation will be small and GDP growth is high, it is even more favourable for those who receive salaries from the state budget and for pensioners. This GDP growth will be greater than inflation, so it is in any case a more correct and better solution for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2523	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 24a was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2524	As regards the amendment to Article 24. We have in the procedure an amendment to Article 24 submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic and the amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 24a, who was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. It seems to me, and I think I'm right that this is about the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. If we have a bill on amendments and amendments to the law, then the scope of the amendments can only be within the framework of the bill. A new member cannot be added, and a new member of 24a is added here. If we say it's the same member again, then we're collapsing with Article 161. Rules of Procedure defined that the applicant of the amendment cannot, alone or together with other Members of Parliament, submit more amendments to the same article of the bill. True, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on the proposed amendment, which adds a new Article 24a, has not spoken out and has not rejected such an amendment, such an amendment remains in the procedure. I just point out that the situation that has already taken place during the debate on amendments to other amendments to the law, that the proposed amendments will go into greater scope than is proposed in the draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law. In that part, I think it's clear to all of us that we should avoid making 28 drafts of the law by an urgent procedure. The question is if there's any justification for such an emergency procedure. The fact is that among the proposed laws and the draft budget law, although I have already explained this, the draft budget law and the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law should stand for 15 days, to be in the Assembly before it is discussed. In that sense, this discussion of mine is not to prevent one probably useful amendment, but I'm just pointing out -- come on, let's give us a procedure to do all of this in time and that no one can introduce in this way the precedents that will be brought to all of us tomorrow, because if today-to-morrow we propose a draft of a law that only treats one date or an extension of time, all other MPs can attack the entire basic text of the law, because we broke practice here and decided differently. We have already established some new practice during this session. I appeal to all of you to be in this session alone, only with regard to these 28 draft laws, and not to have that happening to us in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2525	Mr. Mikovic, I thank you for such useful information. However, I would like to ask you, as vice president of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, have you considered this and what is your position on this case?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2526	My position is clearly stated at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. The fact is that I wasn't at the session because I was prevented when the other mistakes were made, so I said at the tide here, and at today's session, where there were attempts to consider that member, I pointed out that if there was a vote and a discussion of that member, I think the Committee should reject it. The Committee did not declare this, the agenda item was removed, and the Assembly can decide as it pleases. So that amendment wasn't thrown out of the procedure. In that sense, I have made my position clear, which I am defending here on the tide – there is no other practice, either in one way or in that way. Just in such situations, I insisted when Mrs Gordana Comic's amendment was rejected. I was the one who suggested that it be rejected and it was accepted. He would have insisted here, too, if it had been decided today on the board. The board didn't decide today, the rest is in the process. I suggest you let that sort of thing happen to us in the future, no matter how this goes. We already have a few places to add certain members under a) and b.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2527	Thank you. You said yourself, the Assembly will decide on this amendment in voting day. The 46th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Nenad Popovic, Sinisa Kovacevic and Ruzica Igic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Ružica Igić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 46, and we thank the Government for accepting part of this amendment, or for agreeing that the revenues made by higher education scientific institutions retain the character of their own incomes. However, our amendment referred to the following, that in addition, cultural institutions also use these own revenues for the purposes set out in a special law. In this respect, the Budgetary System Act deletes its own revenue and thus creates a basis for the general expenditure of the budget to be included in its own incomes. We believe that cultural institutions, such as theatre, such as museums and galleries, philharmonics, etc., are thus threatened because they have financed some of their basic activities with their own resources. Own funds in terms of ticket sales for individual performances. What motive, the question is, will they have cultural institutions to fight for the audience and make incomes? They will be faced with a major problem which they have successfully solved using this tiny ticket money and other own revenues, which allowed them to function minimally. We believe that this will not put the budget of the Republic of Serbia at risk, and that cultural institutions and even culture in Serbia will be helped in this way. That is why we have submitted this amendment, in the hope that the Government will have an understanding of this. Once again, I want to thank you, on behalf of the parliamentary group, Minister Dinkic, who listened to us for four days and was patient with all our problems. I think he really deserves every commendation from the MPs of all the parliamentary groups. Of course, there is the Minister of Education now, whom we also thank for this short time, and we hope that Tuesday we will have the opportunity to see him all day here with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2529	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 27th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Pensions and INVALIDS Security You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marijan Rističević, Dr Nenad Popović, Milica Vojić-Marković and Donka Banović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2530	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the purpose of my amendment was to raise pensions. With the original proposal, this increase was 2% in October 2012 and 2% in April 2013. With my amendment, I suggested that it be 5% for all pensioners whose pension is less than 80% of the average personal income. Why did I do that? For the simple reason that any increase in pensions, linear, increases the difference between the least and the biggest pensions, so the pensioner with the largest pension will get 2% and the increase will be 1,500 dinars, and those with agricultural pensions, which seem less than social aid, will receive less than 200 dinars. With each subsequent increase, the difference will increase in favour of those who have large pensions, and often some of the undeserved large pensions. I don't think age should be a punishment, that all older people deserve a decent age, especially those who have very low pensions. With this amendment, I have tried that those who have lower pensions than 80% of the average personal income increase have about 5%, and that those who have higher pensions share little fate with their older citizens who do not have such large pensions, for the simple reason that, once again, all people deserve to have a decent age. So with my amendment, I tried that those who have lower pensions than 80% of the average personal income increase have about 5%, and that those who have larger pensions share little fate with their older citizens who do not have such large pensions, for a simple reason, which is why I again underline that all people deserve to have a decent age. If my amendment doesn't pass, I'd like it to be a starting point for some thinking in the future. Since the pension budget is set aside around 2.3 billion euros or 250 billion euros, it is not disputed because it is necessary to touch old people, and in Serbia it is increasingly old, and few are working and paying contributions. When it divided that 2.5 billion I got that average every pensioner, there's a million and 700,000, it would only have a base of 11,500 dinars from the budget. It seems unreasonable for someone to have a pension less than they'd get from the budget on average. The one who's got such a small pension, or not at all. There are people of farmers who are 80 and a few years old and don't have a pension, but they buy diesel fuel, pay taxes. They don't have a pension, but they do do it to pensioners who have a pension, and they're particularly guilty of getting paid by those who have pensions that are greater than one and a half percent of the average personal income. When we talk about this in the future, I will continue to suggest that the difference between old people is reduced in favour of the difference between pensions, in favour of those whose pensions are poor, miserable and almost nothing, so that they have some chance of making their grandchildren happy with some gift. So, next time, I'm going to argue that all pensioners are equally divided by the amount that's scheduled for the budget, and that what's paid from the PIO Fund, that by the coefficients, it's paid to those pensioners who paid more, that the part that's paid out of the PIO Fund gets more, and that the part that goes out of the budget goes evenly. So we're going to reduce the difference between the biggest and the smallest pension. I don't see that I'm going to get any big support, but my reason is, above all, these miserable and no pensions, not just farmers, but workers, there are workers whose pensions are 11,000, and peasants and workers are brothers in sweat, brothers in pain. So I have to stand up for their rights to the end. I will most likely withdraw the amendment in the light of the fact that the Committee on Combating Poverty did not support my amendment, although it was in favour of the poor above all, so I will leave it for a better time when I acquire it, and I will lobby a majority within the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2531	The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2532	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the initiative on the proposal for this amendment is quite acceptable and I am standing by it. I beg you, Madam Chairman, take me from the time of the parliamentary group. As a man, I stand by it. Here it is said, in the light of this amendment, a lot of things that absolutely destroys the existing system. There's a problem. First of all, everything that's been talked about here in the explanation requires a big debate and requires an intrusion into the system and the system needs to be upgraded. As the first and fundamental problem of such an amendment, it would be to translate pensions from economic to an absolute social category. You'll admit that's not possible. Not to get into what's already known to everyone that pensions are category and something that's done, deserved, acquired right, not social. It's nice to think about it, and I'm absolutely into thinking about the poorest, the ones with the lowest pay. I'm from a party and I'm from a parliamentary group that's just fighting for this kind of social equality, but in this way it can't be achieved. Because you enter into the uncut right of the one who earned his personal income when he worked and based on it is a certain pension. What will be the reaction of all others who will be denied that right? We can do it the way we've defined ourselves this time to go with that so-called. 13 pensions, i.e. with social assistance on a quarterly level. We can thus achieve what is said in the explanation of the amendments, but we cannot systematically disrupt if you want the constitutional right of the pensioner. What we're talking about is the term of the pensioner's grant, the donation of pensioners, that pension doping, etc., from the budget, even less, it seems to me at this point that it's possible to solve it in a way that differs from what part of the pension is taken from the budget, which is taken in another way. And where is it taken from? The pensioners didn't spend what the state now has to pay out of the budget, nor are they responsible for the fact that we've come into this situation that so much must be allocated, the state from the pension budget. So one initiative is one humanism, a human side, a social definition, but we can't violate the system as a system. For that reason, he thinks the government is absolutely right to refuse this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2533	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2534	I'm afraid I'm misread, it's not my purpose to bring down the pension system, it's not my idea to take people's pension rights away, it's my amendment's purpose is to reduce the difference between the biggest and the smallest pensions. I wanted to say, especially because one half of the pensions are paid out of the budget. So, of those people who pay taxes and who have very miserable pensions. I really apologize to the retirement party, but the purpose of my amendment was to increase pensions for people with 9,000 pensions, 10 grand, 11 grand, 15 grand, 16 grand and 17 grand. So, I wanted to help them by, you know, giving a solid distribution of what pensioners have that those who have astronomically high pensions don't get all the increases of a thousand and a half, and those who have small get only 200 dinars. The only redistribution was the meaning of my amendment, and I realized that I wouldn't have a majority, and I left it for a better time, so we're going to calculate that formula that's going to be fairer and that's going to be in favor of all the old people, that there's not some privileged caste among people over 75. Let's not make some super pensioners and some barely survive. So, I wanted those who have very little pensions to have the opportunity to make their grandchildren happy and that they could part of their pension to support someone else. It didn't make sense for me to tear down the system, it's not the point of my amendment to humiliate any of those old people on the contrary, I wanted to humiliate them a little bit. So I apologize, and I will withdraw my amendment. I'll leave in some better time, or for the next budget projection to sort it out somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2535	Thank you. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2536	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a late hour, I don't see it, the right to tell you these numbers and all, but I will try to explain what we wrote on the amendment to Article 1. In this article, the Proposer proposed that pensions be harmonised in October 2012 and April 2013 by 2 per cent. We believe that this should be left to be harmonised in October 2012, but that it cannot plan today, especially with the budget's rebalancing that it will also be in the 2013 budget. We've come from three facts. The first fact is that with children, pensioners are the poorest part of society. And according to pension fund statistics, over 200,000 people are said to receive a pension of only nine thousand and 900 dinars. While, for example, in favour of what Mr. Risticevic says, 60 pensioners receive 115 thousand 787 7 dinars a month. Statistics further say that 87,000 345 pensioners in Serbia do not have the lowest pension. Excuse me, he receives the lowest pension, which is about 13,000 dinars, while even 141,000 and 800 pensioners receive less than this amount. At the same time, about 800,000 pensioners receive about 25,000 dinars, which is average. That's the first fact. We normally submitted as a parliamentary group, while the finance minister was Diana Dragutinovic, a very similar amendment to what Mr. Risticevic suggested, of course, not the same, and we received similar arguments why they did not accept it. The second fact that we've come from is the data, this is the budget rebalance, now this rebalancing can apply to this calendar year. He cannot pass legal solutions to the 2013 budget. Here, it's three months to budgeting. Leave the possibility that this amount, which is really a minimal 2% pension increase, may increase to 2.5%, might be some shift, might be 3%, but don't rebalance the budget to regulate the budget issue. That's just logical. The third fact that we started is what we as DSS MPs have repeatedly pointed out, that pensioners of municipal budgets, or city budgets that are rich and can help, agree, help, but thus discriminate against one army of other pensioners living in small areas where the budgets are miserable and where this giving cannot be transferred. Then you discriminate against those who are the most poor, they are the ones who live in those small areas. I just don't know if you've been convinced by these three facts. They're completely well-intentioned, so objective, that's what it is. I suggest you accept our amendment, because, excuse me, this is the fiscal year of 2012, increase pensions by 2%, leave it to change in the fiscal year 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2537	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details in general. We move to the 28th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Marijan Rističević, Gordana Čomić, Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejčić, TeodoraVlahović, Janko Vezinović, Siniša Lazić, Srdjan Miković, Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Petar Petković, Bojana Bozanić and Morčev Dušica, Government, Citizens's Protector and Finance Committee, the Republic budget and control of public spending. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. You have received the opinion of the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it opens up an examination of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the Ombudsman submitted the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by the Civilian Protector. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 1. The amendment was filed by the government. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have submitted the amendment to Article 1. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the amendment was adopted, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the meaning of my amendment is that the agencies that have been excluded from the amendments and the addition of the Law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector. Therefore, the anti-corruption, DRI and the Fiscal Council have been excluded. They were miraculously excluded, of course, and what had to be excluded, it was the Aviation Control Agency, etc., due to international regulations. Given that, I also suggested that profit control be entered by the Anti-Corruption Agency, the DRI and the Fiscal Council. I believe that these agencies that have been formed since 2008, are the real armies of party membership, which have co-dominated and arrested in agencies that cost us about 10 billion dinars. Corruption, as the former president of the Republic said, is that we are champions in the fight against corruption and crime, so we also have the highest rate of corruption and crime. I think these agencies and the DRI, the Fiscal Council, are the most responsible for the state in which the state is, and now we're rewarding them by exempting them from these rules that the pay limits to, say, 140 thousand dinars, with past work, would be a total of 190 thousand dinars. So the agencies spent almost 100 million euros, 10 billion dinars, and when we limit their salaries to 190, we can't cover these three agencies. I do not agree with the government's argument that these agencies must be excluded, because if so, then that explanation would have to include the Citizens' Protector, it would also have to include a trustee for information, not just these three agencies, or these three institutions. I'm afraid this has become the Holy Cows, although they are the most responsible for the very difficult state in which the state is now. The most responsible for what we have to do is rebalance the budget, the most responsible for the major robbery committed against the citizens of this country. In order to explain more plastic to you, I'm just going to tell you, read, what I found in the official documents. Several years ago, the salaries of all officials were uniquely determined by the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, so that the President of the Republic had the highest salary. Meanwhile, this has been changed by piles of special laws, so now the president of the Republic has a salary at the level of a junior referent in a mediocre agency, and at least three thousand officials and employees who receive salaries from public revenues have salaries higher than the president of the state. So you don't need a better explanation for all this. A driver in the ministry who drives a minister or a Prime Minister has a salary of 26,000 dinars, and a driver at the Anti-Corruption Agency or another agency has 80,000. So this amendment of mine was supposed to be a temporary solution until the law was passed uniquely on all public officials' salaries and they were all in the same position except for those exceptions, which I have already cited, due to some international circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2539	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2540	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for Mr. Risticevic's amendment. I want to support him and give an additional explanation as to why this amendment is entirely meaningful. At a session of September 20th, the government rejected an amendment explaining that the Anti-Corruption Agency is not exempt from law enforcement, to apply the law to the Agency. In the government's explanation, it further states that the refusal of the amendments stated that this law could not be applied to this agency because the salary level was allegedly governed by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. This argument is simply not true because salaries at the Anti-Corruption Agency are not regulated by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. This law is the only regulated and prescribed salary of the Director of the Agency and the Deputy Director, in Article 22. The law. In the basic text of the Law, it was prescribed that the Director had a salary of the Minister's salary, and a deputy at the height of the Secretary of State's salary. The 2010 amendments stipulate that the director has a salary in the height of the judge's salary of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and the deputy in the height of the judge's salary to the Court of Appeal. However, if a special law is an obstacle to restricting the salary of the Anti-Corruption Agency, then the same reasons exist in many other cases. On the same principle, the Protector of Citizens could be excluded, as his salary was determined by the Law on the Protector of Citizens, so that the Protector could also be listed in the list of exceptions. The same applies to the trustee for information of public importance and to many other bodies. The following generally accepted legal rules, these current laws could not be an obstacle to the application of the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector, as this law is a later law, which derivates previous laws. Notwithstanding the above, we believe that the specific regulation of the salaries of the managers of certain public authorities and public authorities in specific laws is not acceptable, but that the level of their salaries must be regulated and laid down by general rules on public sector wages. It is particularly unacceptable that this attribution occurs only in certain laws, for the managers of individual bodies, while for the managers of other bodies there are no such provisions in the laws determining the position of those bodies. It is also unacceptable that the salaries of the head of the individual state authorities are determined at the level of the salary for certain judicial functions, which has become a practice since the increase in salaries in the judiciary. The level of salary for judicial functions concerns judges, the High Council of the judiciary and in the framework of the judicial budget. The commitment of the salaries of individual other officials to the level of salary of judges or the president of individual courts leads to the automatic increase of the salaries of those officials, disrupting the established wage ratio in two different areas, uncontrollably burdens the budget. In front of this assembly the last few years, as on tape, have been defiling laws that increase officials' salaries even twice, and have been added to their employees, as a rule, by at least 30%. Since this has been established in several cases, it has become a reason for all the following officials and authorities to demand an increase in wages and their privileges and there is no end to it. However, when new laws are passed, which, for example, refer to the economy, businesses only introduce new obligations, increase taxes and impose new and larger penalties. Let's remind you of a few fresh cases. In the amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the director of the agency was raised twice by being determined at the level of the Supreme Court Judge, with an additional 20% increase following the decision of the Agency Committee due to some special complexity of the affairs. Amendments to the Constitutional Court law have increased the salaries of judges, but the salaries of court officials by 30%. The government's regulation has increased salaries to city officials, so these are twice the salary of a republican level. We have local self-government that the deputy director of a public enterprise has a higher salary than the President of the Republic. I'll remind you only of certain salaries that are up to 300 and some more than 300,000 dinars in certain agencies. For privatisation, say, 344 thousand dinars. Of the 130 agencies, there are few executives with a salary of less than 200,000 dinars. In today's time when the situation is so dramaticly difficult, when people live on the border of existence, this is inappropriate and irresponsible. I'd go back to it if there was no single method or rules, so the government was a mess. That's what I'm saying about the previous government that let all this happen. The Prime Minister and the President of the State have a salary less than we heard, three thousand different officials, younger officials, referents and so on. I'm not surprised that the government did that when her president was completely demoted to work with such a small salary. For example, the salaries of the Citizens' Protector in the height of the President of the Constitutional Court's salary and the salaries of the Deputy Judge of the President of the Constitutional Court. So, from everything out of the blue, I think it's perfectly meaningful to this amendment and that in all ways we have to stop anyone being inserted into that "sent" for these, because then "sent" is going to try to get through everyone else tomorrow. After all, why make any difference in quality. If we want it to be a way to reward someone by being a job, to do better, then we can go in order, not only from government officials, but from people in health, school or anywhere. It just can't be a criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2541	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petkovic, Bojana Bozanić and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2542	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few words about this amendment, I would like to share with you my impression of the full commitment and efficiency of the work of the DSS parliamentary group during today's debate on amendments under various laws. I have tabled an amendment requiring the DSS to be an exception to the provisions laid down in this proposal for a law establishing maximum earnings, just as certain categories of public sector bodies, such as the National Bank, the Aviation Control Agency, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the DRI and the Fiscal Council, are excluded because we consider it to be a very important agency, which is established by the Telecommunications Act, which is an independent organisation, which is financially independent of state bodies, organisations and persons performing the work of electronic communications. It is also worth mentioning that the revenue from Ratel's report, according to the Law, is something that does not go out of the budget, but the funds that represent the income and expenditure difference, which are determined by the annual report, are actually paid at the expense of the budget, so it turns out that Rattel is actually paying into the budget 35m euros, which is not getting the money from the budget. How important is this agency also saying that it regulates the sector whose value is 1,600,000 euros per year and 5.7% of GDP, respectively. Now we come to the essence of this amendment, in this agency there are over 80% highly educated people with specific, expertise, especially in the field of market analysis, electronic communications, interconnections, electronic communications networks, radio spectrum control. So these are people who are extremely wanted on the market that you can simply count in Serbia on the fingers of one hand. Therefore, if Rattel is exempted from this provision of the law, it will turn out that they will also be cut by wages, and these people and as they are wanted, will either go abroad or be employed by some other operators, and it is well known how such experts are paid, especially by such outflows of people from Ratel, unfortunately, the state will be in trouble. Just to mention that for the important equipment that Ratel uses, more than four million euros were invested, and that huge money was invested in the education of the staff itself. So it is an independent regulatory body, and I therefore believe that this amendment should be supported by the Government because, among other things, it is supported by all the employees of Ratel. I'm like an explanation for this amendment that wasn't accepted, got the following. To ensure, it says, greater fairness in the public sector's profit system, both for those who are managers and for auxiliary and technical staff. What's this about? We are not talking about it at all, but that it is necessary to preserve those people who are highly educated, who have specific knowledge and if the state does not stand behind them, they will leave because they are worth the market. It is simply very clear and therefore, once again we call upon the Government to think carefully and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2543	Thank you. The word is Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2544	Dear amendments, I don't know if it's just you or a group of MPs. These are facts, Ratel is one of the most important agencies. It gathers and through the work of the agency are additionally high-ranking people acquired and experience which is now widely applicable and it is very important, of course, to ensure that the bar that works at RATEL, I speak only from this professional aspect, remains and that is the meaning, if I understand well, of your amendment. I simply ask the government to consider, and on the other hand, to say immediately, that there is no reason to worry about other aspects. Of course, RATEL doesn't pay out of the budget because, as you know, that kind of agency has a monopoly to raise funds. So there's no need. It makes money that only at the end of the year, of course, like other agencies, is handed over to the budget, and in the case of RATEL, those funds are part of the total income, part of it only from the difference between income and expenditure, as you know, are distributed in advance, and that aspect of you are not disputed, which is that these funds enter the system, but only by appealing this amendment to the exemption from the level of earnings. Am I right? In that case, please consider all other aspects of exposure. It's simply not correct to argue, if that's not the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2545	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic and Olena Papuga submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2546	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, it is 22.05 hours, the MPs are increasingly agile and agile. Since you're coming to us on Tuesday, Mr. Minister, then you're aware of the trouble you're facing in parliament, we can't wait for you to come. So DSS MPs, as far as this set of laws are concerned, have proposed over 40 amendments, and I am sorry that the government has accepted a very small number. Otherwise, our amendments, as you can see, are too high and they want to effectively improve the situation in Serbia's economy, the state of economy, the state of finance of Serbia. Dear colleagues, we have proposed an amendment to the Law on the establishment of maximum income in the public sector in paragraph 3 and I must also say that, on this member of the law, he also had a fiscal advice that asked for this member of the law to be explained, to be more transparent, to know what an enterprise or legal person on the market means in the context of competition. We've done it with this amendment, we've explained it. I want to read it to get you into matter and for the sake of the public, Mr. Minister, since this is not your portfolio. Therefore, Article 1(3), which reads - the provision of this law does not apply to public undertakings and legal entities referred to in Article 1 of this Article, which have competition on the market. It is amended to say that the provisions of this law do not apply to public undertakings and legal entities listed in Article 1 of this Article, which have a competition covered by a minimum of 10% of that market on the market. So we have in a good way explained the suggestions of the Fiscal Council, the government has rejected this amendment, by saying that it will subsequently establish the criteria. Since the law will be passed on Wednesday if Thursday and will be justified, I fear the government will not have time to pass a special act on this. For these reasons, Minister, we urge you to suggest that Minister Dinkic accept this amendment, because he is talking about this criterion that the Fiscal Council and the DSS spoke of at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2547	Thank you. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2548	Just a little attention, I wasn't throwing anyone away. Item 2 of Article 2 of the Bill of Law defines that the income referred to in Article 1 shall be considered as basic earnings, part of the earnings for the work effect, expenses for food during work, compensation for the regression for the use of annual holidays, in accordance with the Labour Act, as well as other receipts, which, in accordance with the Law governing work, make a profit, are proposed to add to the work carried out in the country. The reasons for the amendment are: the proposed amendment would allow for further smooth business and functioning of legal persons, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP, units of local self-government, which will be covered by this law if they operate or intend to operate abroad, i.e. which refers to employees working abroad, which is conditional on the cost index of living in the receiving countries, the involvement of additional funds that will enable the employee to function uninterrupted and normal during the performance of the work of the employer abroad. The reason not to accept this is because the right to earn or pay during the stay of employees outside the Republic of Serbia regulated by special regulations. It is regulated by special regulations, but here it determines the maximum profit in the public sector, and it is not said whether or not it applies to the case when they are abroad. In that sense, I think it is useful, to clarify all this, to accept the amendment of Mrs. Comic, I think she tried most well to clarify this matter. That there was no question in the interpretation whether it was applied or not. Otherwise, we will have to carry with us a government report or the government's opinion that this does not apply, that other regulations apply, not this law in that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2549	Thank you. The Citizens' Protector submitted to the 6th Amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the amendment was submitted to Article 6. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the Proposer accepted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Janko Veselinović and Sinisa Lazic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2550	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which stipulates that the difference in the estimated earnings in the previous month, before the new law enters into force, in relation to the earnings that can be calculated in accordance with this law, is being paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget by the end of the year. We have suggested that this difference in earnings actually return to the level of either the Republic or the province or local self-government, depending on whose budget these legal entities are practically established and that would be fairer. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation for the lack of funds in the budget. These funds, given the exceptions envisaged, not only for these institutions, are independent, but also for those exceptions that will be based on the subsequently established criteria and criteria of the Government of Serbia, as they are considered competitive, mean they will be practically derived from this, in fact those employers who pay the biggest profits. So, there remains much less resources than is expected, and for Serbia's budget it will be a small contribution, and for the budget of local self-government, the province can have importance in solving other problems in this domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2551	Thank you. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Representative for the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2552	I am happy that after a detailed explanation and persuasion at the meeting of the Finance Committee itself, I have been able to justify enough why such an amendment should be accepted. Mr. Secretary accepted the same thing. I would now ask you to read and compare the amendment that I have submitted and the amendment submitted by Mrs Teodora Vlahovic, Dr Janko Veselinović and Sinisa Lazic. Now I'm telling you -- that amendment of theirs is better than my amendment, because it defines more precisely. In my amendment, where I have explained, it has been defined that the difference to return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP or local self-government units, depending on whether the founder of the legal entity is the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government, while the honourable fellow MPs who have proposed the amendment to Article 7 have better defined what is defined in Article 1. It's a bill of law. So, not only who is the founder, but who has direct or indirect control over more than 50% of the capital or more than 50% of the votes in the board of directors, as well as in other legal entities where public funds account for more than 50% of the total income. So, they gave it more fully, and I think it's correct that this amendment, if it's already essentially accepted this amendment, to vote on that amendment and to make that amendment better, whatever my amendment has become an integral part of the text, and it's still in the procedure and the amendment of my colleagues. That's why I think it's better to adopt it, and there's always a possibility of getting along. Let's face it, and whether or not something is adopted is better. So I won't answer for word again, I won't answer my amendment and explain anything else. The only thing I regret is that none of the numerous amendments of the Protector of Citizens have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2553	Thank you. The word is Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2554	Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. This is a typical example of insulting the Assembly, destroying the dignity of the Assembly, and mocking the amendments of an MP. What you've been doing with Mr. Mikovic's amendments is really not correct. Please don't let that happen in the future, but since you claimed you wouldn't answer the word...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2555	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2556	I won't answer the amendment. That's what I said. But as far as the replica goes, I didn't scold a suggestion. I just said - this proposal is good, because if it wasn't good, you wouldn't get the trust of all the members of the Finance Committee who unanimously supported it. I wouldn't get government support, because a government official said it was great, so our Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the truth we don't act as a party to that government, but it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I just said there's a better one than the good amendment that's in the process. President: thank you. Predrag Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2557	Of course, since I respect every MP, even the chairman, to whom the objection was sent, there is no basis for replication. So please take care of it. The objection was made only on the basis of an abuse which was against one MP and I will defend that MP in the future, and, please, I accept that there are thousands of better amendments than anyone who appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-22-0.u2558	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Tuesday 25 September 2012, starting at 11.00 a.m. as Voting Day on all agenda points of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you. Goodbye.
