ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 148 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs: Dr Vladimir Marinkovic and Vesna Stepic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on an exceptional basis for Monday 6 August 2012, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly, following the resignation submitted by Dejan Soskic, governor of the NBS, to more urgently approach the election of a new governor. With the invitation of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was convened at the request of 128 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the Sixth Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, the next Dn e n i r e d 1 was determined. Proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Before we move to the agenda, you were presented with a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that by taking office as Director of the KIM Office by MP Alexander Vulin, on 3 August 2012, the case in Article 88(5) was launched. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, under which the taking over of a function which, under this law, is incompatible with the function of a MP, ceases the term of office by force of the law. For these reasons, the Committee proposes that the National Assembly establish the termination of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88(1), point 5. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected, MP Alexander Vulin, on the day of taking over a function that is incompatible with the function of the MP. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. You received a proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic. Before the search opens, I remind you that it is consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I find that the total time for parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the MP group PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - six minutes, the SPO-DSS Group - six minutes, the Socialist Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia – six minutes, the six minutes, the National Party of Serbia's majority, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, and six minutes, six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes of the national, and six national, and six minutes, and six national, and six national, and six minutes, and six national, and six national, and six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that by this point in the agenda of the parliamentary group it will be: MP Veroljub Arsic, MP of the SNS; MP Zarko Korac, MP of the LDP; MP of Nada Kolundzija, MP group – DS, MP Mirko Chikiriz, MP – SP – DHSS and MP Miroslav Petkovic, MP of the DSS. In accordance with Article 192 of item 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1094	Mr. President, honourable MPs, we have made objections to the bill and the way it was proposed and the essence of the law, and that law has already been adopted and taken effect. Meanwhile, the governor has resigned so far. Our remarks were above all that we had no analysis of the operations of the National Bank, that we didn't know why these changes were proposed, what was the meaning of these changes, of those who suggested it. Although it is perfectly legal, it was unusual for a group of MPs to propose these changes, not, say, the Government, because it is a very important institution in each country, it is the National Bank of that country. We didn't even have the government's opinion, which I could politically interpret here, which is very interesting, which means that not all the parties in the government wanted to give that support or didn't want to stand behind the proposal. But it's certain, what we've been saying all along, that this law will have consequences primarily because of the loss of the National Bank's independence, it's now just being confirmed. Our theme here is the choice of governors. When the biography of the person proposed is carefully read, Mrs Tabakovic, it is evident that here, probably quite consciously, its political functions are absent. It has been said that it was a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament, it is said quite correctly that it was also in the government before 2000. So these are not controversial facts. But nowhere is it said that she was not naturally elected to the Assembly as an individual, an apolitical figure, but logically as a member of the political party and also, that until two days ago or still, she was a high-ranking official who makes up the taster of the government. That can't be an accident. I have to say, if that logic follows here, then the governor of the National Bank can be all party presidents. So it could be Boris Tadic, who is currently the former president, who is now president of the DS, can be any party president, because he can resign and say he is a non-political figure. I remind you that a member of the 20th Law that you have just adopted says - the governor under (1) position 1 cannot be an MP in the National Assembly, a member of the Government or a body body that has been educated by the National Assembly, a government or a political organisation official, or is unable to perform the function of the organs and members of the Authority... So it's here that he can't be a political organization official. That's the right thing to say. Since 2000, however, we have not had a case for a senior party official to be proposed to the governor of the National Bank. To be personal, which I never do, I know Mrs. Tabakovic well, together we became MPs in 1993, it was a very difficult time, war times. It belonged to a party then, the Serbian Radical Party, whose MPs and its then and present president very uncontrollably attacked us who were representatives of the democratic opposition. Mrs. Tabakovic, she never did that. I remembered her by courtesy, courtesy, and she really, the whole time I remembered her work in the congregation, never anything ugly about anyone she ever said. So she showed one thing, in my opinion, praiseworthy especially in Serbia, it's never personally attacking and making a great effort not to say anything bad. Also, I hope that's not offensive what I'm saying, it seemed to me that in your parliamentary group, I don't know everything, but certainly in the party, she's a person who certainly has economic knowledge. So it's not personal what I'm talking about. What I'm talking about isn't about her as an individual, it's about one principle. The principle says it would be good if there were an independent institution and it would be good if whoever runs the institution were at least relatively independent or to some extent separate from the political parties, especially political parties that are in power. If you look at any country that has an independent institution of that type, then you'll see, take the United States, their famous, there it's called – Secretary General Reserve, but it's actually the governor of their bank, Allen Greenspan. I was able to listen. The whole of America listened, including the American president, what he would say about finance, the rate of dollars, interest rates, interest policy. As I recall, he survived four American presidents. No American president had ever thought of replacing him, and I believe he couldn't change him, because he enjoyed a great reputation among financial experts and in the American public. We took the first step so that the person elected would not be a political person. I've never heard of Professor Shoskovic, who I know as a professor of economics, who was politically engaged. That doesn't mean he doesn't have any political closeness, but at least it wasn't formal. Since 2000, even Governor Jelasic, who apparently had some connections, personal and I don't know what, with G 17, as much as I remember and he wasn't the party's official, and Mladjan Dinkic wasn't. He was that so-called. It's an expert section of DOS. At the moment he made the party, I think it was at least a formal occasion, that his shift was requested. It does not serve Serbia the way that it constantly replaces its governors, because it was most often without any clear explanation, what they have done unprofessionally or rustily for the country's economy or finance. But in this case, we're going one step back. It's that accident of ours in Serbia. So, once again, this is not about Mrs Tabakovic's personality, but about the principle, it is about bringing in a senior official of one ruling party for the governor for the first time clearly and thus we are opening the door so that in all the coming times the governor can be a senior official of the political party who resigned, who after a few days says - now according to Article 20(1), I am not a political party official. We have proposed one amendment, just to confirm it, which, of course, is not accepted here, is that for at least a year he wasn't a party official. It's not directed against Mrs. Tabakovic. That could have been five years, three years, ten years. All right, someone's been doing politics, although it's already been a dispute, but it hasn't been in politics for a while now, and he wants to. I'm telling you, you've been laughing a little bit, all the presidents of the political parties then in that sense, especially those with economic knowledge or economic colleges, can now compete or appear as governors of the National Bank and that will then be quite in line with this principle that says - he's not politically active. Just because he was politically active yesterday doesn't mean anything. I think that when we talk about our journey to a better society, the function of governors is important because one independent opinion is needed. It can be right, it can be wrong. The governor can do the right thing, and he can do the wrong thing. It is certain that an expert and public debate can be conducted in general. We usually get the impression that the governor determines everything, and exchange rates and the foreign exchange market situation, everything. It's our insecureness and our public. Everything is now placed on this man, which is, by the way, the burden of Mrs Tabakovic, who will be elected today. Once again, it is good that we are still trying to lead these institutions by people who are not directly involved in politics, I repeat – directly, indirectly, many are tied up and that at least they are not high-ranking political parties. That's not good for our Serbia. You, when you all voted, which I enjoyed, for Mr. Jankovic, who is indisputably doing a good job, no one questioned it, that he was a non-political figure, that he was not a man who was engaged politically, because then it would open up various topics, whether he intervened because it was close or in the interest of a party or something like that. This is another society, this is another state right now. People have the right to political organisation, have the right to act politically and it is good that they choose parties, but it would be really good to remind ourselves that it would be good for some of the functions not to have high-ranking political party officials or political party officials at all. We will not stabilize our country so that politics eats everything. This is where politics ate everything. For the very end, some of the parties that are in the government today launched two topics in the election campaign. One is the departmentalization, which is correct, and the other topic was – charges against DS that while she ruled all functions had to be approved by party leaders or party forums. However, it is sad to see that the gentleman, I quote only your coalition partner, Mr Dragan Markovic Palm, who seemed to be the most honest when he said it – it was for the election campaign, does not apply when it comes to power. They say, I don't know if it's true, that Nikola Pasic once they objected to him that some law he advocated was not applied to, then he said a famous sentence – laws are for opponents politically. We can't go that way. If you criticized her for having party personnel everywhere, then you can't repeat the same mistake and do it further, if that's true. In other words, you should have shown that other model of behavior. The next time citizens don't go to elections, which is the condemnation of all of us sitting here, and my parties and me, when citizens don't go to elections, remember what we're talking about today. The citizens will say, "What should we vote for those who say otherwise when they come to power, they will act exactly like those before them? This leads to this apathy and infidelity in Serbia that something can change, which is the defeat of the entire political elite and all political parties in Serbia. We're all defeated together when we're going this way. I can't support this request personally from the arguments I made. Once again, nothing personal against Mrs Tabakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1095	Thank you, MP Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1096	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the legislative proposals that come to the National Assembly and the human resources proposed by the ruling coalition, we can conclude which way it will go. Today's debate is a good opportunity to see how the ruling coalition thinks it solves certain problems. The National Bank of Serbia is the cornerstone of the financial system, and the governor is certainly the first man of the institution. The old governor went into silence, we haven't had a chance to discuss his work, to put out with arguments everything he didn't do well in the past two years, in the past two years since he was elected, and to gladly vote in this House for his resolution, but it just didn't happen. Today, we will choose a new governor based solely on the biography we received as MPs. I don't think it's right to vote just on the basis of indications of what they're going to do and how someone's going to do something, especially when they're in such an important place as the governor of the National Bank. We haven't heard of a program that will be implemented by the governor, we haven't heard of the goals for which the achievement will stand. I am sure that the right place to discuss these issues is right in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly not in the media. We have nothing to object to Mrs Tabakovic's biography, which is what she did, what she did, but the biography is not enough to vote for Mrs Tabakovic as governor. That's how we acted two years ago, in July of the month, when Mr. Shoskovic was elected governor here, and that's why we didn't support him. It's very important for us to hear what kind of politics the new governor is going to run? Is this the policy spoken of by her party colleagues and coalition partners, or is it the programme and policy that Mrs Tabakovic represented here years ago, in her speeches and performances in the criticisms of the former governor in the National Assembly? Here I have the stenographic notes from the session where Mr. Šoštic was elected and I am sure that many would not be comfortable in this hall if I read it. As for the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I would be happy to read the speeches that we then made in the O.R. and see how right we were in everything we talked about. There were interesting topics, there were talk of "sinerji" capital, about the National Savings Officer, about Mladjan Dinkic, about software fraud, but it's not the topic of this session. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I know that there is a restriction that the future governor should address the National Assembly, but there was also an idea at that time about the extensive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the opportunity to address that candidate, but of course, and the promoter, which I think the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, should have done today. After all, if we want to respect the Rules of Procedure, who forbids us to talk about things in private life, so I won't look back on Mrs Tabakovic's biography. We are very interested in how will the new governor affect the country's economic, fiscal and monetary policy? The NBS objectives are clearly defined by the NBS Act, but no law defines the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Are the NBS and Government's goals the same? Based on statements, already current ministers and some party-run ruling coalitions, it is clear that these targets cannot be the same and cannot be matched. The question I'm asking may be strange, but I'm really interested in whether the new governor will respect the NBS Act? If he wants to, and he'd have to respect him, then he'd definitely come into conflict with his party colleagues and his colleagues from the ruling coalition? The NBS Act, as the primary objective of this institution, sets stability prices. In the debate the other day about the NBS Act, it was just a matter of course stability. We are really interested in the DSS – how will the future governor deal with this very important issue? Is the new governor going to defend the course more aggressively or is he planning to implement a different policy? How do you estimate the course moving over the next year, or if it's too long, at least over the next few months? What's the limit when the NBS won't be able to intervene anymore, given that the current balance is in a terrible minus and there's no foreign capital? How will price stability be ensured? We all know that the impact of agriculture on GDP and inflation is extremely important and great, given that we have had a bad year, experts estimate that losses will be more than one billion euros. I am sure this will reflect the standard of living of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and the stability of the price. About that, unfortunately, we won't hear anything. The rise in price is already significant, and we see an increase in the prices controlled by the state. Will the price stability recipe be the same as the previous government, which has led to the fact that we have general poverty in Serbia and the decline in purchasing power of the population? Are you staying on the policy of targeted inflation? Is the required reserve level changing? How will the new governor behave when it comes to state reserves? Will the new governor, Mrs Tabakovic, finally answer the question she asked herself in this House -- where are Serbia's state reserves and what interest are being placed? How will banking sector control be carried out? If something is going to change, what are these instruments and mechanisms, and how will this control be carried out? Does the governor have a plan for what happens if some banks withdraw from Serbia? One of the new government's promises is to reduce interest rates and reduce bank profits in favour of the economy and citizens. That's a great idea, and I can commend it. I don't see how, or I want to hear how it's going to happen. What will the NBS answer be if there is an increase in interest? Will the reference rate change? Is this deficit sustainable? What's the position of the new governor on the arrangement with the IMF? Is this country able to meet the requirements already set? The question that we are interested in from the DSS is – will the funds withdrawn from the IMF be considered a public debt? We've been asking these questions together here in Parliament. What does the governor think of the level of public debt and how will this state serve it? For many years, we've heard about the governor's salary, the costs of the NBS, are there going to be any changes -- will the fees be reduced to the members of the NBS Council? Will the new governor explain to us what these transferable deposits are within the monetary mass? What will be the co-operation of the new governor with the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Will the promises of some of the ministers we hear these days affect and compromise the realization of the NBS's basic goal? These are just some of the many questions we've asked, which today, unfortunately, we won't get an answer from the candidate for the new governor. We do not need answers from party colleagues and coalition partners, we need candidates' answers for the governor, from a person who will lead an independent institution whose quality work depends on the functioning and economy of this country and the life of every citizen. The coalition informed us the other day not to pay attention to our promises, that it was only for the campaign. Any debate that is being held about selecting someone to a very important function should offer answers. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this debate will only turn into a question, and that on the other hand, it will be a wall of silence. I repeat once again that we have nothing against Mrs Tabakovic, as a person, as an economic expert, because we know what she was doing and how she spoke in this House. We have nothing against her biography, but the DSS did not support the government of the Republic of Serbia and we believe that the new governor will only be extended hands of that government. That's why we can't support her today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1097	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Kolundjia, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that the Proposer did not find it appropriate to explain his proposal and to say a positive word about the candidate, which is proposed today, speaks much more than whether they trust each other and whether they believe that this proposal is the best. So he's talking about that everything we said in the last few days is absolutely true, that the ruling click decided to put under its full party control the most important monetary institution in the country. If this debate were to be a debate following the finding that the governor had suspended his term of office under the law, that we had debated the governor's responsibility here because he disobeyed the law and did not enforce the law in the best way possible and in the interests of the citizens and the state and that this assembly had decided to relieve him of those duties, we could say that we have one normal political trail of events. Today, we have a proposal on the agenda for the governor of the National Bank after the parliamentary majority, misusing the legislative function of the National Assembly, passed a law that prepared, by force, the governors of the National Bank and, in effect, established full control of the executive authority over an independent institution such as the Central Bank. All those who had even the illusion that the promises made in the election campaigns that the citizens believed and therefore gave some confidence and only because, that there would be a period of depoliticalisation, as it was very popular to say in the campaign, I think now they see whitedenly that there is not only nothing, but that everything that has been objected to by the previous parliamentary majority and the executive government as a politicisation, looks like the imitation of what is happening now and this pale, barely recognizable imitation. Putting the head of the NBS of another party man who is in power, not only does he not talk about depoliticalism at all, but he speaks primarily unequivocally of the fact that there is a clear intention of the ruling majority and these executive authorities to establish a full party state. The vice president of a party that even says - I will not resign to a party post until I am elected, except that he is talking probably about mistrust and uncertainty whether or not he will be elected, he is talking about another matter, about the complete absence of consciousness that in this way the most harsh violation of the law, even as amended, as they have amended him. Regardless of the fact that they've changed the provisions that say that party employees can't get to the head of the National Bank, what's unimaginable is that the highest party official is headed by the National Bank. Indeed, I mean neither naive nor even those who have been adamant against the previous government cannot admit that such a thing, not that no one has thought of it in the previous period, but no one has thought of such a thing happening again in 2012 in this country. A declarative statement for the EU shows several things, that it is not enough to think that citizens think it is better in the EU, so propagating that policy is not enough to think that Serbia may still be better in the EU, and then propagating that policy. You have to know what it means in value and what it really means in the system sense of meaning. We have already received reactions from all relevant international institutions, including the EU and, of course, what we warned was true, which is that the adoption of this law and such a political blow to independence and independence of the Central Bank is a huge step backwards, that it is an anti-European practice, that it represents a move that will certainly lead Serbia in a position to slow down its path to the EU, i.e. that many of the doubts that exist now will actually get strong evidence that this is not a government that understands what it means – we are for the continuation of the path to the EU. With all the objections we have had and some of us have been serious and we have thought and always made sure that we take into account those who would contribute to making moves that would be in the best interest of Serbian citizens, we could never object to making express efforts to build independent institutions in conditions that were not simple in a country that is not very prone to such institutions. Every time this independence, and we see it now, has been declared alienation from the people, so now, to God, the people are necessary and it is necessary for the people to now defend these institutions from such alienation, so now the people through their constituents will establish full political control over such institutions. We don't have a long history of building a democratic society. If we've managed to make some steps in the last 10, 12 years, it's so much more tragic that now, today, we have to talk about making huge steps backwards, which put the country back in time that, however politically defined, we all barely survived equally. It would be normal if we could really talk about the candidate today, what kind of monetary policy this is going to be with the new governor, but I think any such story and attempt to start this debate on that side is essentially wrong, because it's absolutely not about being wanted right now, and it's found, a fantastic man who's going to find fantastic answers to all of our problems, about the work of the National Bank and about the stability of the price and the course of the dinar. On the contrary, this is about political violence that puts an independent and non-dependent institution under party control, which has a dominant influence in the ruling majority. Now the question is raised, with all due respect to colleague Jorgenka Tabakovic, is she really aware of what a dangerous lever in the hands of the executive authority can be and how terrible her responsibility for the consequences that can arise can be and is she willing to take such a risk? Or she naively hopes to be independent, and she knows that she has come to the post by eliminating any independence of that institution through the abuse of the legislative authority of this parliament. Now it remains before all of us to say – we can hope that all of our fears are not justified, but all of our experiences indicate that our fears are not big enough as the danger of such moves is enormous. What is also extremely problematic and disputable, is the fact that despite the lack of courage for the whole procedure if the new ruling majority also has executive power, they have some new concept of monetary policymaking, which is legitimate, they did not have the courage to go before this parliament with serious arguments disqualified by Governor Šoškovic, for a job that works, and qualified someone else for another concept. We don't see any concept here. We don't see any idea here, except for a reason we can believe, that the intention to establish control over the National Bank is the intention that the executive power has greater interference, read that it has easier to dispose of foreign reserves, I repeat, even the prime minister said our foreign reserves are too large. There are various messages coming from the ruling majority's parties, about how parts of the foreign reserve should be spent on this, or on that. So the intention of the executive authority to enter the foreign reserve is quite clear. All those who try to deny it, arguing that it is not true, may listen a little bit to their party representatives, who speak very, very openly about it. So there's no doubt that's one of our intentions. The question now arises, is it really possible that the candidate for prime minister, since she could not become prime minister, insisted so much on being governor, that we had to change a whole law to achieve such an ambition. So, all of those when we claimed, you passed this law to replace the governor and to set up a very specific person, which we once claimed to be Mrs Tabakovic. That's when they told us, no, we want to establish people's control over the alien institution, we want to improve the position of citizens, about the stability of the exchanges, etc., and who's talking about human change at all. So if someone thinks they can be forgotten in three days, we may have forgotten the 1990s, although from day to day you are terribly returning to them. So that memory of the '90s grows from day to day. Maybe the citizens will forget in two or three weeks, but apparently the trail of events is such that we were absolutely right. What was done here is a law that intended the establishment of full party control over the National Bank institution and that a man who was not inclined to do so would not accept it, in order to set up a person who would obviously accept it, or perhaps even be happy to do so. What I think is becoming quite clear to all citizens, that everything that was promised in the election campaign, about the big changes, I think that the citizens have now realized that change can be worse. The change they were then talking about and promising citizens as a magic wand to solve all their problems is a huge step backwards. The next question is now being raised before us – whether this ruling majority, if it really thinks it is good for Serbia to go to the European Union and that it is good that its laws and its institutions build on the European Union standards, whether it will come to a correctional exam and say – excuse us, we have to change this law, because it is not in line with European standards, which today they will not recognise, and what they do not today, because it is important that we replace one man, in order to choose a party figure, so we chose the last governor because he is not a member of any party. You're choosing the governor today, just because he's a high-ranking party official. So that's the difference in understanding what an independent institution is, and what legal provision means to put party people on that function, if you want to achieve the independence of such an institution. I am sure that when negotiations are reached with the IMF, which will unequivocally say that such moves Serbia has no chance of making arrangements with the IMF, that when these loans to help the World Bank's budget, when the World Bank also says you can't count on the support of the World Bank, you can't count on the support of any international institution, you can't count on the support of the European Union, because what you're doing is out of line with democratic principles and democratic standards. I believe that then they will come to this assembly and ask us to understand why, now that they have convinced us that it is so fantastic in the best intentions of citizens, it is now not so fantastic and should be changed, because now it will be something else, which is changing so fantastic and in the best interests of Serbian citizens. It remains, therefore, for all of us, to point to what are the dangers of such actions. So, you could have done it differently, you could have done it by respecting the laws, which will respect the democratic standards and independence of the institutions, you can do what you want, but what you can't and can't do violence against the law, and violence against the institutions, which are independent to the extent that it's possible to build so far. You can, by your own free will, put in charge of everything that's your party chief's safety, you can set up his deputy director for the National Bank, you can do anything because you have a majority. But you need to know the consequences of that are also something, not what you can, but what you're going to have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1099	Do any of the presidents or mandated legislators of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1100	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a very serious topic, perhaps the most serious topic the government faces at the beginning of its mandate and the most serious topic for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In an announcement to this session and parliament president, he said the work of the previous governor, Mr Dejan Soskovic, would be analysed, would be determined, explained and explained the reasons for what he said was a savage course of the euro, and I think the ruling majority in preparation for the vote by Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, herself, was unwittingly placed the noose around her neck. In this day's political pressure on former Governor Šoškovic, we have heard that he is guilty of everything and everything, including the situation in the economy, of a high unemployment rate, etc. If that's why Governor Soskovic was responsible, then the new governor will be responsible. The new governor, he won't be as responsible as he wasn't even responsible. I believe and agree with the distinguished colleagues, that we really need to talk about things, not the personalities and Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, as a person deserves respect for both the public and all the MPs, because we believe that as a person she is, she is a very correct person. But it is not the task of this Parliament that we evaluate the quality of a person, but that on the basis of something we do not have, which is, at least, an indication of the programme of the future governor, because all previous governors and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, and Mr. Jelasic, and Mr. Šoštic, before their election, gave the basic indications of what they were doing, and they stuck to it. For example, Mr. Soskic said before his appointment that the euro course would, of course, depend on offers and demand, on the state of business, on arrangements with the International Monetary Fund and other world financial institutions. He advocated an even greater degree of independence and independence of the central bank, and said many things concerning independence, the independence of the central bank will not be a compromise. In that part, he remained fully consistent. When the independence and independence of the central bank were violated, he resigned gentlemen. I also agree with my DSS colleagues, that it would be inappropriate, above all, for the SPS members and the G17 plus, to now remind us of the words of praise they said before the election of Governor Šoškovic to his post. But what everyone has forgotten in criticism these days is that in 2011, the euro recorded a drop of 0.80%, that it was then becoming a firm arrangement with the IMF, that there were and respected the clear goals of fiscal and monetary policy, that in terms of the global economic crisis, when economies of much more orderly systems collapsed, Serbia maintained macroeconomic stability. I have repeated several times in this high house that really reforms in the banking sector are the best thing that has been done since 2000. What, above all, led to an increase in the euro rate? Because in February of this year, we had a frozen arrangement with the IMF, because the elections were long awaited by the formation of the government, because the current prime minister had previously sent very unpopular and controversial messages to financial institutions and thus confused potential investors. What is the reaction of the professional public, investors, international financial organisations to what you are doing? The opposition is there to criticise and that's quite clear. We've heard one of these institutions, one single investor, say that what's done is good. What is clear to all of us is that the central bank in the previous period, I think of the period from 2000 to 2012, regardless of the policy had its own dose of influence, was largely independent and independent. With these amendments to the law and the appointment of Ms. Jorgenka Tabakovic, politics again has a dominant impact on the country's economy. The number one rule of finance in the world is that the best governor who knows how to say "no" to politicians is because politicians have all kinds of desires. They are in the interest of doing something that will be remembered in one term, and what consequences will come after that is less important. In its programme, the Serbian Progressive Party, in its famous white book, cited many elements of the new economic policy, that Serbia needs structural, economic reforms, which we strongly agree on. One of the first SNS programming principles says it will stand in the way of Serbia's irresponsible public borrowing, which is destroying the country's economic system. The first move of this government, of course, inevitable, of course we understand, is talks with the World Bank on borrowing of 400m euros, and that amount, of course, will not be needed to fill the current budget deficit. On the other hand, in a political sense, it is very inappropriate for those half of the ministers who are now sitting in this government, who sat in the previous government, trees and stones to throw at the previous government, blaming it for the economic situation in which we are sitting, which they have largely created. Here, above all, I also think of Mr Dinkic and the current prime minister who in the previous government was the first Deputy Prime Minister and had a significant impact on economic policy. What does the SPO want? We do not really want to see anything more, for the sake of Serbian citizens, for the sake of the country's future only from a political angle. We do not want that, when elected Mr. Dejan Soskic, the ruling majority of him has only praises, and then that part that is now the ruling majority, there are only words of criticism about him, as the ruling majority now has, for Mrs. Jorganko Tabakovic, only words of praise, and for the former governor only words of criticism. We don't think that's good. That's why we expected, above all, from the representatives of the ruling majority, today when we don't have an old governor anymore, to really tell him what they really resent. We think the point is that there are no such arguments. Also, we expected them to bring us at least the basic five objectives of the new monetary and fiscal policy. Also, it's not there either. Then what do we need to plead? The conjecture is what will happen if it is. As a result, the debate on this important issue in the beginning has been greatly impoverished. Any kind of assumption that it would be and that would be unserious. What is certain is that, primarily thanks to the opposition, the pressure of the world's international financial institutions, the European Commission, probably the investor, the ruling majority gave up on that Article 18. The law on the National Bank of Serbia has made it clear that it will well consider whether to engage in this adventure spending foreign reserves, as both Argentina and Brazil and Mexico and the Czech Republic and Hungary entered the adventure and the consequences of their economy were devastating. If we have some objective indicators, and they are that the independence of the central bank has been violated, that the governor will have constrained powers and will be under constant policy-share, that it will be to carry out political orders, and if he does not do so, he will be removed, and because in such conditions the results of such economic policy cannot be good, then of course the ruling majority will not be responsible, but will be responsible for the governor. That's why I say that the ruling majority, in attacks on Mr. Shoskovic for everything he's not responsible for, unwittingly put a noose on the new governor's neck. Do we want all this bad to really happen? No, I don't. The SPO may have the most reason to be unsatisfactory after 2000 for one simple reason, which our wish and our fight for a European, rich, orderly Serbia was stronger and greater than all. Because we wanted to see Serbia, after 22 years of rebuilding the multi-party, in the family of European peoples and because the former communist countries, above all I think of the countries of the eastern bloc, had left in 22 years compared to Serbia 30, 40 or 50 years in advance. That's why the SPO in all governments was always nagging. I'm talking about governments after October 5th. We were dissatisfied because the changes were not comprehensive, root, fundamental and that the changes we had promised citizens were not sufficiently felt on their skin. There's something else to say. In 2000, many funds were empty, pensions and the Health Insurance Fund, macroeconomic stability was catastrophic, there was no VAT either, banks were operating under the system of agreed socialism, etc. And indeed many things have been done well. But I think that, first of all, we forgot small and medium-sized enterprises, what the state can do for them and that the tycoons, which got rich by 2000, in our very well-known way, after 2000 increased their likely, largely suspiciously acquired wealth, thanks to privileges and looking through the fingers of all governments. Also formed is a new tycoon elite. This all that is happening now is that decisions will be made again, unfortunately, in the interest of those richer, those with whom October 6th was not calculated because it did not exist. The Serbian Renewal Movement, once again noted, will support the country's future, in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of making our EU accession faster, all that this government does, and we believe it is truly positive. Until now, what has been done, unfortunately, is negative. I think that if this continues, Serbia will surely face the consequences of change, which unfortunately are not change for the better, but change for the worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1101	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1102	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I most sincerely expected that today's debate, according to today's agenda, I would say first of all to these colleagues who, through their head of the parliamentary group, would insist on gender equality, and today they are talking about the governor, so I'm going to talk about the governor's election, I expected that there will be style and unity here, even as in the election for the Citizens' Protector, Mr. Sasa Jankovic. Why do I say that? So, those who don't believe me, let them find the stenograms and records from that session when Mr. Sasa Jankovic was first elected Protector of Citizens. Some of my colleagues were MPs, and so were my little ones, so they'll see what they were saying about this man, that he was a party proposal, which he was. After all, 99% of the proposal in this assembly is party, some party must propose them. Just to remind them to see what they said about Mr. Sasha Jankovic. I don't mind them, they may have thought he would work in the interest of the party, although his activity and his work concern all Serbian citizens, given the conditions that Serbian citizens live in. To come to 2012, where there were praises, perhaps more than he expected and what he did, although it was obvious that man had done everything he could in this country to Serbia and that is why we all supported him. Why don't we support the governor's candidate today, Mrs. Jorganko Tabakovic, in the same way? First, this country, or NBS, doesn't have a governor, so it's logical to choose a governor. It may also be logical to trust a colleague who's been here for years with us and who we've met, who, I'm sure, will be independent and more than the law obliges. Maybe someone who suggests it in the next period will have a problem with that. I'm not going to comment on her expertise at all, because I'm not professional enough. That's what people who are more professional than many of us who sit here and find no objection. The principle of independence of the institutions and so does the National Bank of Serbia. Believe me, most ordinary citizens don't make it very clear. Who are you independent of? It is said that the NBS, or governor, will, in this case, be the governor of this country's foreign currency reserves. At the same time, I am as a folk MP only after those famous Tuesdays and Thursdays, when questions are asked, I have barely received an answer on where these foreign reserves are and under what conditions someone is taking care of them. So who does an independent NBS institution need to be independent of? Are you from the citizens? Is it of that money that keeps either from the current government and their daily party interests? I support that, but to be independent of the citizens whose fate does she decide? It turns out that Mr. Soshkić, maybe he couldn't have done better, turns out it was honey and milk when he worked. No one will tell you what happened in those two years, that maybe two billion euros in foreign exchange reserves in defense of course have been spent. The way he defended him, we see. This reflects the standard of citizens. Does anyone ask a question here from those who defended Shoskovic? No one even attacked him, he's a gentleman no longer a subject, a man resigned, a man can't even defend himself, he can't do anything. Why should we mention him here? Does anyone mention so many young people who took up housing loans on one condition? What are they doing now? I'm going to give you an example of a four-member family that received 40,000 dinars, their war was 16, and now it's 32,000 for 100%. Whether they're tied to a Swiss franc, I don't know exactly. Does anyone think about it when they talk about the work of Shoskovic? I'm still saying that he may have done everything he could, but these are facts. Not some Governor Shoskovic and his two-year mandate defend what they did. As they did, the people said in May 2012 and should simply understand that they lost the elections and that change is done both in independent institutions and in the Assembly and in the Government. To say that I was surprised at the time that a colleague doesn't know, say, that the Federal Reserve of America is a private bank. The contract expires in December 2012. There's a lot of sites to read. Does anyone think that NBS should be independent, private, in that sense? As some moves are drawn, I can doubt that there are private interests. Because, in public, if financial experts, economic analysts, journalists dealing with the economy, say – the course is in the interest of that group of businessmen or tycoon, as they are called, importers, and they say – not, but exporters, then I wonder where the citizens are, they are the broadest layers and who will represent them? In that sense, I spoke and tried to explain to whom the National Bank of Serbia needed to be independent and how these foreign reserves should be kept or manipulated, of course, in a positive sense. The president of New Serbia a few days ago, praising Jorvanka Tabakovic and saying what we think in the New Serbia MP club, that she will be a good governor and that she will, above all, work in the citizens' interest, compare with a man who has long since been among us, with popular grandfather Avram. Why was he popular among people who were not professional and who perhaps at that time did not benefit as much as it was shown in public at that time? He was working fast, and I think now he needs to work fast, and that's why we need to pick a new governor. It'll be time to criticize her. As for New Serbia, believe that we will not be saving it, so much more because, with full confidence that it is the right woman for the right place at this time, we will vote for it and have a greater right perhaps than some who, defending the governor who resigned, are actually defending their rule for the past four years. It is said that the function of the governor, i.e. the NBS, is the stability of the price. Should we talk about what happened? I mean again, because of a man I've never had the honor of meeting, Mr. Shoskovic, maybe he did the most he could, possibly the same economic crisis and what came to us, but why don't we talk? We can't defend that score of his. All that we're saying, the administration is one of the opposition colleagues was, all we're saying is that the NBS, with a greater or less understanding, is that it works, actually we're loading on the back and on the shoulders of the new governor. She is, I'm sure, aware of the task, the weight of the task and the function she will perform in the next period. If I'm to give her a message from here on behalf of the widest layers of citizens, citizens expect not to keep the euro course on that one, but to cut it down a bit. That reduction means to them. They don't think in importers and exporters, about stakeholders and industrialists, they think about everyday life. When the euro jumps half a dinar, it feels right away, prices go right away. That's what every Serbian citizen in his wallet feels. So, New Serbia will support Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia with the confidence that she will do her job best and will be more successful than the previous governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1103	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1104	Just to answer my friend, MP Markicevic. We're not going to have a debate here about the federal bank of the United States. By the way, if you are calling for Serbian history, in the Kingdom of Serbia and our national bank were divided property. That's how Mr. Pfeiffert could have been the governor of that bank, because she was half state-owned, half-owned. So that's what's become of Serbia itself, but those times have passed. Federal reserves are only formally owned by a private bank, and, of course, the defacto is run by the United States. They are as such and established in due time by the first act. It was signed by George Washington. It was the first thing the new American government did in the late 18th century. But why this debate? I'm not a banking expert, and neither are you. I wanted to say that it's not common in countries to change, when power changes, that's the only point I've ever said, and I think that I've been understood by all MPs, that it's not the usual for a new government, like us, which, unfortunately, has become common when a new government is established to change the governor. One day, the governor could be independent of the political authorities that were elected at that time. That's all, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to the list of MPs. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think what needs to be pointed out here today is that the proposal for the governor of the National Bank was made by the President of the Republic, who is not a party figure this time, unlike the proposal for the previous governor, who was also the president of his party. Also, I think it is important to point out that the majority that exists in this house has adopted a new National Bank Act, which restricts the ability of the governor not to run an independent monetary policy, which remains in the hands of the governors and the National Bank, but rather the possibility of abuse of his position and his will restricts and puts under the control of the National Assembly. I think it's something that's good for these citizens of Serbia because they're here. One more thing being said in this National Assembly, we today have the choice of governor of the National Bank because the previous governor has resigned. You can always tell if most people's intentions were like this or what, but since we're all talking about form and formality today, the governor of the National Bank has resigned. It is the responsibility of the president to propose to the next candidate at the head of this important institution. For this reason, today we are having a debate on the choice of governor of the National Bank. When we're talking about a candidate for the governor of the National Bank, I've been thinking for a long time about how to present something that doesn't sound too partyy and that doesn't sound inappropriate to you, and I found a way to introduce Mrs. Tabakovic. I will read you a few quotes, what she said in her policy dealings in previous years, to show you that Mrs Tabakovic, above all, was an economic expert, that she was someone who was in politics involved in the economy, economy and economy and who was always doing it for the benefit of Serbian citizens. I'll just take a few quotes, because I could read to you for days everything Mrs. Tabakovic said only in this home. I chose a few that you would be able to make sure that and when she was in opposition and when she knew that her party was a government participant speaking in the same, critical way about the government's functioning and always expressed the desire for the National Assembly, that, in fact, through it, the people, or the citizens of Serbia, have control over the executive authority. In June 2010, Mrs Tabakovic said: "We will absolutely advocate laws that will apply to everyone, both the government and the citizens, that government control will also involve control of financial flows. That's what we're talking about today, but that's not what the government does. We need to ensure that all inspection bodies are law enforcement bodies. Most importantly, employment conditions must be created. The fiscal policy measures, which we have been instructed, are primarily aimed at enabling a large number of people to be employed who will receive salaries and from that salary to pay taxes to the state, who will be able to operate as a serious state without enormous debt." When we talked about the Public Procurement Act, which I think Mrs Tabakovic was one of the people who has always tried extremely hard to pass a new law on public procurement, which I expect will soon be in front of this house, she says, "As in our society, she appears as a fundamental problem in the lack of evidence of crime, i.e. The release for the theft of those who do not have good enough evidence, we have decided to come up with a bill that is immediately applicable and closes to the greatest extent all the taps that pour money, but also cracks for abuses and for the setting up of a tender. The bill introduces a new section in preventing conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, in the EU, the Public Procurement Act regulates the single market for this type of procurement, and we in Serbia must, above all, deal with the prevention of corruption in the area of public procurement and so we had to pay particular attention to where this conflict of interest is. We define very precisely, as we define the most possible penalties if a contract that violates the conflict of interest is concluded, we include the DRI in this part of the deal, but we foresee the possibility of such contracts being declared void and to shorten the procedure for punishing those who violate these provisions. Our primary goal is to increase competition, to introduce control in public procurement procedures, to force those who are obliged to comply with this law, to make a proper procurement plan that cannot be exceeded so easily and therefore not to respond, but not only to what has been implemented legally, semi-legislatively, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, I am primarily talking about what is not treated at all by the Public Procurement Act, and I should." When Mrs Tabakovic spoke about both agencies and other regulatory bodies, she always insisted that the agencies be made a list of assets of all non-resolved items, all abuses, spent funds, done and unworked jobs, and above all, a list of accounts and funds whose flows were branched on different sides, but always passed the budget of the Republic of Serbia. When she talked about whether development or saving, which I think is a very important thing, for our society, Mrs Tabakovic said: "There is no dilemma of development or savings, but the development is based on savings. That's two inseparable things. It's a message for this government." That's what Mrs. Tabakovic says at a time when her party represents a new government and that citizens must experience it as their own and must solve problems. The government must have a clear awareness that the citizen put himself and family's future in her hands and that they are only interested in the measures that will take the results. I'd like to tell you a few more things. When we talk about results, I think it's the basis and essence of dealing with the policy of all public function holders. The results are what separates us in the end. The results are what it represents whether we were successful or unsuccessful. In all good intentions, in all good will, we had people who were praised, who were set up by the vast majority, who went through the narrow majority, but their results were always measurable at the end of their term. I don't want to talk about Mr. Soskic, because he resigned, but the NBS results were not such that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia could be satisfied with them. I am sure that Mrs Tabakovic will be a great governor, above all because she is an exceptional economic expert, because, acting in this home, she has always represented the idea that the law must be respected in the interests of the citizens. They will defend the power of the dinar in such a way that we do not have to worry about what the purchasing power of all citizens will be in the coming period. I am absolutely sure that by participating in the adoption of a new law, it will always be available to the members of this Parliament to answer all questions from the domains of the area they will be dealing with in the future. Anyone who knows Jorgenka Tabakovic, even one day, knows that she will never be anyone's puppet, that no one will ever put her in his pocket and Mrs Tabakovic will be truly independent in her work, which I am fully convinced that you will also be able to see very quickly. Finally, let me add just one sentence, to say almost personal, as a member of this House I can say that I will miss Mrs Tabakovic's brilliant mind, her moderate word and the great expertise she has always given when it comes to economic laws that covered the interest of the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1107	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1108	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote against the proposal to elect Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I must begin by regretting that Mrs Tabakovic is not in the O.R. right now, given that she is still a Member and it would certainly be useful to hear her explanations, opinions, arguments, her program of future work. Since we have been denied, we only have to talk, although reluctantly, about what she did in the past period and on this basis we draw conclusions about her future work. We will, above all, be against this proposal, not because we have anything against Mrs Tabakovic's personality, but because we believe that this way of proposing it as the high party official of one of the ruling parties is an anti-constitutional act and that it is in fact a sort of constitutional coup, which clearly in its member who speaks of the National Bank highlights the independence of this most financial institution in the country. We have heard a lot of criticism here from opposition MPs at the expense of representatives of the ruling majority. However, I want to make an exception. I would just like to commend Mr Dragan Markovic Palm, first of all for his honesty, because he said in this house that all the promises of depolitisation, about the departementisation, were just that -- promises that served once during the election campaign and that the ruling coalition had immediately given up as soon as the Serbian government was established. We first heard from him that Mrs Tabakovic would be proposed to the governor of the NBS, while even representatives of her party were hiding the fact. Here's another commendation on Mr. Markovic's behalf. However, unlike some other MPs of the opposition, I truly believe that the governor will be independent in her work, because as a verified party chamber, she will receive orders from Andric's wedding and from Nemanja Street and it is certain that, whether or not she wants to do so, she will be forced to do so independently of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and independent of the Constitution guaranteeing independence, so that she will indeed be independent. As it has been said, since we do not have a program of work of the future governor, we have left to judge the range of future work of the NBS and its leaders based on the facts of the past. Then we must remember that Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic was a member of the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, so-called. The government of the People's Unity, between 1998 and 2000, and this period has left us all in the ugliest possible memory, given the most negative economic indicators associated with the government's work. Let's remember that inflation was over 100% then, that the salaries were only 40 German marks. This cannot in any case give us confidence and provide security regarding the future work of the most financial institution in Serbia. Let us remember that President Nikolic first proposed to Ms Tabakovic as the prime minister for the composition of the future government, and when she did not get that post, she was then proposed by the same political official for the post of governor and then acts as some consolation prize. I don't think it's a good solution in any case that laws are tailored to personalities, according to the needs of political parties, not taking into account national and state interests, particularly the functioning of institutions and constitutionality and legality. Mrs Tabakovic once said that the IMF is practically and unnecessary to Serbia and that with responsible monetary policy in Serbia, as she pointed out, the IMF is not needed. I deeply disagree with her statement, because above all, our economy is deeply dependent on abroad, because virtually three-quarters of the financial sector is from abroad and even two-thirds of our debt we finance by borrowing precisely on the foreign market. We've seen how far the politics of isolationism have led us. Now I've just mentioned this period of the 1990s until 2000, when we had the opportunity to see where this confrontation with the whole world, the closure and nothing good in that period could be expected, as we now have the hint of going that way. As counterpart Chikiriz said, we from the SPO have great objections to the work of the previous governor, but if during that period they were rampaging prices, it's no excuse for violence against the Constitution and violence against the law and for some different rampage of someone who thinks they can only do it because they have a majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1109	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we choose the governor of the National Bank, but most discussions go around the subject and talk about other things. I'll just try to focus on this question. I believe that a colleague of Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic has been proposed for this post by the President of the Republic because at the moment it is the best solution. Jorgovanka's colleague has both professional and moral and all other qualities in order to meet the requirements imposed by the choice of governors. I cannot agree with some who say that every president of the political party could have been proposed for this post. That's not true. First of all, they do not meet the most basic conditions laid down in the statutes, which is likely to be economists by profession. As far as I know, most of them aren't economists. I also understand the opposition's desire to try in every way to jump to the ruling majority or, as someone said, a new expression – click to jump in and try in every way, not to say a harsh word, to mitigate the quality of the candidate proposed by the President of the Republic. As for counterpart Jorgovana Tabakovic, it is true, she was Minister of the Government of Mirko Marjanovic and it is nothing wrong, it should be an honor for each of us to be in our career ministers in the government of the country in which we live. What's important to her functioning in that government? Let's just compare some facts. She was the privatisation minister, as I recall. Serbia's external debt was then around 6.5 billion. It's over 30 billion today, as far as I know. It's characteristic yet, all the good, all our companies were preserved, and today we're in a situation where there's a lot of things, that's all that's worth selling and it's not ours anymore. Let's just remember that at the time Lafarg offered 640 million for Cementa, and that same Cementara was sold only after a few years for 70 million. It can't be said that counterpart Tabakovic, as minister of a particular area, worked worse than those who came after her. On the contrary, she was much better and more successful than they were, because she knew that she had preserved what was created by generations for the benefit of Serbian citizens. I believe and want to believe that colleague Jorvanka Tabakovic will be the best governor Serbia has, or whoever she will have. When today-to-morrow the other majority comes and such conditions are created that Serbia needs someone who is a better governor than Jorgenka Tabakovic, I believe she will be happy to have someone who will be better and more successful and who will work better for the interests of Serbian citizens. We'll never get hit by someone else taking over a certain function. As for her being a high-ranking SNS official, I really don't know what a high-ranking official means. Does this have anything to do with height, or the place it takes up in the party? If it's with a place that's in the party, and someone mentioned here that the vice president of the SNS is, as far as I know, and I don't want to be specific, so let me say, I'm saying, but as far as I know, the SNS doesn't have a vice president at all. There is a president and a deputy president in our Statute. We don't have vice presidents. After that, it's the presidency. She is a member of the presidency just like me and there are 29 of us in the presidency. I don't think that matters at all. She will most likely resign and resign to those functions as ordered by the National Bank Act, but it will not affect her work. I'm convinced that she's going to do this job as well as she's done it safely and knowing her, and I know that her day will last 24 hours. Everything he does will work in the interests of Serbian citizens. Someone had just talked about how the people would experience what they would now be governor of the National Bank. I wish someone had done a poll to make a statement to the citizens of Serbia, and I know from pre-election times, when I traveled through Serbia, wherever we came from, Serbian citizens were delighted to talk about it. I believe today will be delighted to receive this news that she is proposed to be governor and I hope that today she will be elected governor. That's what one fact that I had the opportunity to see in the pleasure area yesterday, I was staying there, where an older citizen told me in a conversation with the citizens, when we were talking about the fact that Georgeanka would be proposed today, or that there would be a choice of governors, he said to me, son, that we would not have found her, but we prayed to God, so we got her. I hope he'll be right, that Jorgenka will indeed be the best governor Serbia has ever had.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1111	Mrs. Kolundjia, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1112	Right on the line. I was wrong to say that Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic is the vice president of the party. The fact is that there is no vice president of the party, and that she is a member of the most party leadership, absolutely does not exclude everything else I have said. It says that she's at the very top of the party and she's wearing the most responsible party functions, that she's a couple of excellencies party man. Technically, the status of the party itself doesn't change that fact which is actually what's unacceptable in this whole story. The democratic party did not want to return to the past and did not want to assess the possible effects of the future governor compared to what its effect was in government when it was in government. Since you mentioned it, then I have to say next. The nominal debt of the state at that time was smaller than nominal now does not mean that it was not 130% compared to GDP, which is true. Now that debt is up to 45%. When you say that in nominal terms it was less, it absolutely doesn't mean anything if we take it compared to GDP, and that was 130 percent. After that government there were 27 outstanding pensions, 24 outstanding social contributions to all social services users, billions of old foreign exchange savings. If we're talking about it now, should we be proud of what's in that government, these results show that there's no reason for pride.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1113	I must inform the People's MPs that the People's MP, Zechariah Trnavcevic, has subsequently signed up. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give him my word now, given that he is the oldest representative of this house. Here you go, Mr. Trnavci.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1114	Thank you very much. I am not speaking as the oldest MP, but I am speaking on behalf of the National Party – SDA and Rich Serbia. It is formally missed to apply and use this right in that opening part of the discussion. Today we have to choose the governor of the NBS. The process and the process began a few days ago, when we discussed amendments to the NBS Act. I remind you that there have been warnings and warnings that both the World Bank, the IMF and other world banking organisations have not been willing to assess this whole process. But I don't want to talk about it, I missed the chance to do it then. Today I'd like to speak here, when we talk about the election of Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor, to give a warning. This process, it cannot be hidden, is an expression of one party's aspirations and one interest, that an important function such as the governor of the NBS is put under control by the ruling majority, or the strongest ruling positioning party – SNS. It's understandable, all parties tend to control their vital points, and in this case it doesn't surprise us. It's the usual thing. We have to take care of it, and that's my warning, what are the reactions of the World Bank, of the European Bank and of all other monetary institutions? For what? Because we are in an opportunity, the Serbian government is in a position, that we will have to start a business, in this case I am talking about agriculture, to look for congestive loans, to prevent, for example, the kind of drought we have in 2012 from repeating, because in the last ten years, we have had five years with a disrupted rainfall schedule, which is called drought. I'm afraid, with this reduced credit rating and reputation, maybe, they'll come up with some formal reasons, we'll be denied that in one expeditious, quick way, they'll come up in our pursuit. I was in Titell the other day, where they decided that water from Tisa would rise up to the Tisha hill and that 8,000 acres of water would be watered, because at this moment, despite all the agrotechnics on that hill, there would hardly be any storks, because there was no water. It's my warning, to make sure we don't stick our fingers in the eye, or to go into a fight with those international monetary institutions. Is it too late for that, or early, now I can't say? I want in that spirit, dicie salvie anima, to say, to keep it recorded in the congregation records and notes, to fear and fear that this will leave considerable and lasting consequences. Unfortunately, I'm saying this today with one unpleasant belief that everything I'm saying won't help, it won't even be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1115	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1116	Madam Chairman, I am merely warning you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure - Rule 96, which clearly defines which order the MPs may receive the word. Of course, I don't mind Mr. Trnavcevic saying, but I think the rules simply have to apply to everyone, because if we start breaking the rules individually, for this reason or that reason, then it won't be like what the Assembly is supposed to look like anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1117	That's why I apologized in advance and explained it to you, and I had the impression that everyone had agreed, I'm really sorry. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1118	Thank you, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, I would like to begin with one commendation of the motion, given that the motion has been proposed by Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, so he has proposed a woman to such a high state function as the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We really don't have any grudges here. However, it would end with praise. I would particularly draw attention to the fact that in recent days we have discussed this proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and today we are talking about a political climate, which was obvious from the moment it became clear which coalition would represent power in Serbia. So this is the political climate that has produced already obvious some negative consequences, whose consequences bring Serbia a few steps back from all that has been positively done during the previous government. I'm talking about judicial reform, I'm talking about decentralisation, because it's being questioned whether it's constitutional or not constitutional, and the Constitutional Court has said that it's not constitutional, all that's provided for in the Statute of Vojvodina, therefore, those ingenuity and jurisdiction that the AP Vojvodina has received, so little that it's received, and that's brought up the question, and it's analized. So these are very bad indicators, they create a very bad climate in terms of any positive change in Serbia. Unfortunately, the Ministry Act, as well as this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, also only confirms the continuity in some of the wrong moves that have been made in Serbia, back in the month. When we look at this proposal, we see that the proposal arrived on August 5th. So it is that the proposal was signed by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is a member of a political party. He proposes to be the governor of members, i.e. members, political parties, and as many high-ranking members as possible. What, then, differs from the proposal proposed to elect Mr. Šoštic as governor? There, the president of a political party proposed a non-party figure. So it's just that this solution is far worse than the previous one, given that a party figure is installed here in the National Bank and that, I underline, is a high-ranking party figure. We can't lose sight of that. When it is looked again at the fact that the governor resigned, he did resign on August 2nd, but resigned to discuss the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. So there was obviously some pressure that Governor Soskovic succumbed to. So, on August 1st, the bill was submitted, the governor has already resigned on August 2nd. Therefore, such big things as the National Bank of Serbia and the Governor, or Governor, of the National Bank of Serbia, are being dealt with quickly in an urgent procedure. What does this say about the fact that we're going to have a party personality headed by such a significant state body? He's saying it's going to be a party National Bank. Taking into account all those provisions of this, however, already a positive law in Serbia, therefore a positive regulation, it only confirms that not only independence, but independence, are not meant in the work of the National Bank of Serbia. These are some of the facts that affect monetary policy, fiscal policy, and also affect the economic rating of this country, and we have heard the reactions of international financial bodies, we have heard what the IMF says about it, what the World Bank says about it. But all that wasn't enough. All these reactions are obviously irrelevant to the legislators of these laws. Today we have a situation that doesn't matter who will be governor of the National Bank of Serbia anymore, because this legal framework has been done that is completely irrelevant. I would not speak of a person here proposed by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. I don't want to comment on her education, her master's degree or her doctorate, but I'd like to comment on the fact that she was in one government since 1998-2000, that she was the minister of ownership restructuring, or privatisation, because the transformation of ownership is actually privatisation. We've heard so much bad about the privatisation in Serbia that Jorgenka Tabakovic was talking about. I would especially point out, in addition to all this biographical data that there is no word about which page it belongs, what party function it has and you will allow, it is somehow a blurring essence, because if you are passing a law to set up a party official as president of the National Bank of Serbia, then you must at least inform the public about it. You know, when we talk about the fact that much worse lives in Serbia today than it was in 2008, we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that the exchange rate jumped suddenly after a linear increase of 10% in pensions, which was initiated by the coalition partner of the current government. So we need to talk openly about facts and we need to talk politics, because everything else is just demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1119	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like my colleagues to be politicians, is that here a good part of everything we discuss about politics, but to remain in some of the frameworks on which we are instructed and a good education and everything else. I don't know about any privatisation affair while the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia was Jorgenka Tabakovic. They're gone. The credit rating isn't about the name and name of the governor, it's about the public debt and gross income, and I can tell you that in four last years we've been in charge of more than Broz owed us 40 years, mathematically proof, mathematics is an exact science. As regards the Proposer in Article 111, The Constitution, the President of the Republic, expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. The President of the Republic of the institution, he represents all the citizens, all the authorities and you cannot accuse the current incumbent president of being a member of the political party. In front of my eyes, he resigned both as party president and as party member, and to all members of the main board and all the media present. So don't mix things up. If the current president of the Republic is a member of the political party, which we had the opportunity to see until a few months ago, how can someone convince me that he is not acting in the interests of his political party and is proposing state officials, as suggested by Mr. Soskovic. As far as his resignation is concerned, I would like, as someone asked, that Mr. Soskić, as a representative of the National Bank, the current governor, come to sit here and cross the arguments, to run after him to schedule the duels, as one of my fellow MPs suggested, does not come to mind. He's acting as governor to the National Assembly and that he's been doing his job properly... (President: Replication time has passed, so I reject you from the parliamentary group. If he'd done his job properly, he'd have been here to sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1121	Judita Popovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1122	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, you may not have understood me very well. I was talking about the fact that she was once a minister. So, she was in power, and it's clear, and let people know it's just one fact that she's unchangeable, because she's a historical part of her biography. But we should never lose sight of the fact that often in this House the debates end somehow at the level of perception. We were apparently discussing one law on amendments and additions to the NBS, and in fact all the time we discussed the future governor and the replacement of the current governor, and everyone here, who discussed who was running for future governor. So it was an illusion, a debate about the NBS Act. Today, when we discuss the proposal and when it comes to the fact that the candidate is proposed by a non-party person, we know very well who Tomislav Nikolic is. We know very well that he is today the current president of the state and that's the fact. However, we know very well that he resigned there, only for that reason to take over the post. That doesn't change the fact that he's a member of the SNS. It does not change the fact that he proposed a party official, a member of the presidency, or whatever Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic... (President: Time. It's that illusion that just can't get past it. When we talk about such a serious subject, then we need to take this subject seriously. If nothing else, at least let's be honest about someone so famous and clear... (Chairman: Please, time.) )......................................................................................................... and the underlying facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1123	The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1124	Dear Chairman, before I begin my discussion on the election of governors, allow me to ask you that more DS MPs do not use the word "political violence", because here we are today expressing that we, most of the assembly, are committing political violence here in the Assembly. Really, I don't think that's right for us MPs. Dear MPs, colleagues of the Republika Srpska Assembly voted on August 4th this year for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act, which, without touching the independence and independence of the Central Bank, has made adjustments. In order to increase the supervision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia over the Central Bank, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the supervision of the business of financial institutions, the increased responsibilities of the NBS authorities, the partial restriction of the powers of governors and the Executive Board of the NBS. Dear colleagues, while we were discussing this law on amendments to the NBS Act, the governor, already former Dr. Dejan Soskovic resigned as governor of the NBS, which was not caused by this law, but by what was happening in the NBS and around it for the last days and years. Governor Dejan Šoškovic's resignation, in my opinion, was caused by the first -- the course list, the second -- what was happening before our citizens and the professional economic public and what was happening in Agrobanka, the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and the Vojvodina Development Bank. Governor Dr Soskovic signed four months before provisional measures were introduced, a report from Agrobank with a large profit, a third one -- his silent observation, as Serbia's economy disappears, declines, because it was in debt at one rate of dinar, and today the debt is paid off from more than 55% of the dinar rate, the fourth -- which Mr. Dejan Šoškic did not in time, vigorously point to the state's excessive debt, and at the end of 2011, it passed, not only the forbidden legal maximum of 45% of the DBP, as colleagues and fellow MPs here and today said, but over 55%, and even more today. See NBS 2011 report, page 37. That means we've skipped the line of public debt, with a possible public debt crisis. Thus, along with the former government of the former regime, Governor Dr. Dejan Soskovic was an accomplice to the country's overindulgence. Only the last four years, the former regime's government has owed our country six billion euros. Thus, along with the former government of the former regime, Mr. Dejan Soskovic became an accomplice to destroying not only our present, but they also took our future, us and our children, and if they had stayed in power, they would have destroyed the Serbian heritage. Fifthly, the NBS did not protect Serbian citizens from the will of commercial banks, so one part of our citizens cannot service their debts. Dear People's MPs, by supporting Mr. Soskovic in supporting them, all of them, here in the Serbian Parliament, and well-controlled media by the former regime, which openly opposed the decisions of the Serbian Constitutional Court to repeal some of the provisions of the Law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, although such decisions are not being commented. Gentlemen, we're choosing the governor of the NBS today, as Dr. Dejan Soskic resigned. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has submitted his proposal to elect Dr Jorvanka Tabakovic as governor. First of all, let's thank Mr. President of the State for taking a very responsible approach and proposing to us, for this very responsible function, a very responsible candidate for governor of the NBS. Before I say a few words about Mrs Tabakovic, it is customary to say in what economic circumstances a new governor is coming to the NBS, when the country is, i.e. It's Serbia. The new governor comes first, at a time when the public debt passed, not as the colleagues said just before 45% of GDP, but 55% of GDP, look at the NBS 2011 report. Secondly, at a time when unemployment is over 25% and one of Europe's largest. Third, at a time when our budget deficit is between 7% and 8%, so between two and three billion euros. Fourthly, when net earnings are at least in the region and they are 345 euros. Fifthly, when our economic growth of GDP is all down to 0.5%, the question is, by the end of the year, whether there will be so many. Sixth, at a time when inflation is between 7% and 8%. Why should the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of party membership, now vote for the governor to be Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic and to choose her? First, because Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic owns extremely high moral qualities, which, gentlemen of the Parliament, you know very well and that I am particularly pleased that you of the opposition today have made your statement. Secondly, because he is an unwavering law-abiding fighter and the application of the law and the Serbian Constitution. Third, because Mrs Tabakovic knows not only well, but also has economic problems, both the theoretical and practical domain. It has been extremely transparent for many years, not only to monitor our and world economic flows, but sometimes, you know it well, as I do, was the initiator of certain economic solutions in our country. Her scientific papers on the banking system have been noted, and I will mention only one written ten years ago, in an 80-page magazine, about the reform of the banking system. Fourthly, because it has and respects democratic and civilization values, as some MPs have noticed today, and from the opposition. Fifth, because as a man and a MP, it is highly appreciated by all citizens of Serbia and by the MPs, regardless of party membership. Sixth, because it's about the best female politician in our country, you know that very well. Seven, a poll conducted among 500 Serbian citizens in the last five days says Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic would be an excellent NBS governor, even 500 of them, 90% expressed positive. There were seven DS deputies among those 500, and of them seven, five responded to Mrs Tabakovic's excellent work as governor of the NBS. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of party confidence, let us vote today for Yorvanka Tabakovic, so that our country in this big, difficult economic crisis gets an excellent governor for good, both the states of Serbia and the nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1125	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1126	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At the very beginning, not now entering procedural matters, whether the candidate for governor can or may not in the ordinary course of things be present, or present to the sitting, this is one handsome opportunity, since Mrs Tabakovic is still a national MP, she did not have any problem today, nor does she have this moment, to sit in the hall and to take advantage of, among other things, the time available to the SNS, so as to inform us here about how she sees her future duty and function, and what kind of policy, as the governor of the NBS, is going to implement. I am truly very surprised that Mrs Tabakovic, who seems to have seen her here for a little while, or that the journalists have told me that she should make public statements, did not find it appropriate for her to enter this hall and that she would still be elected to her colleagues, still to the MPs, that one very detailed explanation and their vision of monetary policy and what would be her goals when, all of the opportunities were chosen here as governor of the Central Bank. It's a very bad, very bad start. To be honest, I am not surprised that President Tomislav Nikolic has proposed to Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic here. I think the SNS was campaigning against the department, but it wasn't their main topic. What would a colleague of Palma say, if they didn't keep that promise right now, they didn't have an accent. I find it very interesting – how will the URS vote today? Maladjan Dinkic founded his campaign to fight to the limit for all state functions, which are not by the nature of matters political, and ministers and state secretaries are somewhere political functions, to be freed from any influence of political parties. I think he made a very firm promise. I also understand colleagues from the SNS who are trying to relativise this thing, but the sparrows in Serbia know that Mrs Tabakovic is one of the most prominent SNS politicians, a politician, should respect gender equality. Ms. Tabakovic was a candidate for Prime Minister, a political figure of the front row, with the highest confidence of the people who make up the parliamentary majority here or are the largest party in the parliamentary majority. So, the woman who was supposed to take over the most powerful, according to the Constitution and the law, the position in the country, to be at the head of the government that creates, determines and conducts politics, and is now a candidate and, since there is obviously a majority of what I think will become the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. A lot of words have been spent on politics over the past few years, but for Governor Soskovic, not getting into what should be the subjects of this Assembly's debate, and about monetary policies and what he was doing as governor, one thing is completely undeniable. The problem is that Šoškić has never been involved in politics. I'm absolutely sure he's not even a member of any political party. He is certainly not a member of the DS, so at the time President Tadic proposed him to be governor of the Central Bank. I will also remind him, he received full support from all members of the parliamentary majority then, Mladjan Dinkic, the party of Mr Dacic, the current prime minister, as well as all others, and many of them now make up the parliamentary majority. It seems to me that more ministers from that parliamentary majority than from these parties are the largest SNS, which were not in the parliamentary majority. These parties have advocated decommissioning, which will say that no one from the parties is in such important areas of expertise. What the hell was that? Let's see now how the United Regions of Serbia will vote. Someone here said that Mr. Shoskovic, if he wanted, could have come to the Assembly. I don't know, Madam Chairman, now the President of Parliament isn't here, it seems to me that everyone here must be invited, including the MPs to attend the session. We can come in here and have coffee when it's not a session of parliament, but I don't see how Shoskovic could have come here and defend himself. In that letter he wrote he gave a lot of interesting things, it would be a good debate. It is not clear to me, again, that it is a question for Mr Dinkic and Prime Minister Dacic, why is the National Bank Council not legal and legitimate instruments, which are at its disposal, so that I can say, encouraged and encouraged to open a debate on what monetary policy is, since the Assembly through its Finance Committee is in charge of controlling, including replacing the National Bank Council? It's just, it's just that there's one MP here, another MP, that there's something wrong with bank control, that's wrong with exchange rate, which we, like the people in the paper, are informed of things we can agree on or disagree with, but it's simply not the level of debate of the Assembly, because we here take care of citizens' interests. Before we go on about this thing, I want to say something about this deficit that's important here right now. I agree completely, and I think all my colleagues here from the DS agree with that. Remember, for example, the Law on Fiscal Decentralisation, which Mladjan Dinkic, who eventually got most here in parliament, has increased the deficit by more than 30 billion dinars. SNS colleagues voted to make Mladjan Dinkic a finance minister and economy minister here. You together now could also debate the matter of why this new cost was made and why 30 billion dinars of new ones are higher. Well, that's part of these couples you're talking about as deu deficits. In 2011, 55 billion discreetly, Mr Dinkic spent through his ministry on subsidies for economics, tourism, employment. I'll remind you, the agricultural budget was 20 billion dinars at the time. Last year, we fought to make that 20 30. That's the same part of this thing we're talking about today. Let's go back to what is essential and the questions that Mrs Tabakovic here could answer, but I don't know why she's denying us that thing, even though she can go into the O.R. and discuss the whole subject with us. Who wrote the bill amending the National Bank Act? I know you all suggested this change, SNS MPs, Mladjan Dinkic's MPs, SPS MPs, but who wrote that? Let's go back to that famous 18th member, who, not because the Monetary Fund asked for it, but because the opposition here opposed, so you had to step down, where it's said - direct purchase is not considered buying securities of value on the secondary market. Now this doesn't mean anything to the laymen... (President: Please return to the topic. ) This is the topic, the National Bank is the topic. I ask, why did Mrs Tabakovic, as a candidate for governor now, at that time, sign such a proposal? So, Mrs Tabakovic has signed that she can governor of the National Bank, which she will become, to decide, among other things, that the savings stakes of citizens will be used to print money, as popularly said. We need Mrs. Tabakovic to answer the question, why did she do it? The people who are here in the parliamentary groups will either do it or not, but none of you will be governor of the National Bank, but will be the Governor of the National Bank. What idea did Jorgenka Tabakovic have to enter the primary show, print the money? When we opened that question here in the National Assembly and it became clear to everyone that there could be very serious and dramatic consequences, that the people would go to the banks, raise their savings, then this terrible idea was put out of force. And two days ago I said, and now I'm saying, it's possible to make a consensus about things that are undeniable that the state should invest and discuss ways to make it seem. I'm going to say it again, I don't think a billion that's given for irrigation can be a missed investment and that you're making thermals and hydrocentrals, that can't be thrown away, that's what a consensus has to be made about. It's bad for Mrs Tabakovic not to give us the answer to that question today. The Central Bank has a function to safeguard price stability. How much is the bread going to cost? It is a question for Mrs Tabakovic, as much as for Mr. Knezevic, who is the minister of agriculture and for Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who is the minister of trade, so he is competent among other things and for what policy he will run the stock reserves. We hear a lot about how much the standard of living has fallen, which is true, but just so we don't all forget together that the standard of living has fallen throughout Europe, it's not just in Serbia. The bread, which is a basic life supply, is cheap. In early 2011, bread cost, national bread cost 54-55 dinars, with a tendency to collect. Today it cannot be more expensive than 44 dinars, so my question for a new governor or for a candidate for governor – how much is it going to cost? The other thing is, a lot of words are spent on the course here. What does Jorgenka Tabakovic think will be the target course or what will be the policy of the national currency course? How much is the euro going to cost? Why isn't Mrs Tabakovic here today present to tell us her vision of things? How will the parliamentary majority vote for someone who does not answer such an important question here, and in his own hands take the decision on such an important thing that affects anyone who lives in this country? How much interest will there be? We're talking about interest for three or four days, and we all agree together here that interest on the 23, 24 and 25% dinar loans is dramatically high. Mrs. Tabakovic needs to tell us what she's going to do here and if she has any idea that something can be fixed here, or if we're all going to conclude that there's nothing to be fixed, so we can come to life here with a sad fate. What will the governor do about such high interest rates? What's her plan and does she have a plan? I guess that's what this is all about. It's not about the biography. There's a vote on politics. The vote is on what monetary policy will be, what defence policy will be, or defence against inflation. Of course, and what ideas are, except for what we've seen with the change of laws, about the improvement of the bank control system. I'll end up with the fact that I really don't understand why Mrs. Tabakovic didn't take advantage of it here. If Soskic had resigned on Thursday or Wednesday, I'm almost sure the Law amending the National Bank Act wouldn't have happened, so we wouldn't be here for three days dealing with one thing that should have been done in a different way anyway, certainly by discussing the current governor's policy. It's a big drought. Here, I'm looking at people whose agriculture has been destroyed, and there's Mr. Zechariah and someone else. This congregation could have done one extraordinary thing. I said this to both Ministers, in the budget for this year, there is room for the government to borrow and not use it, to allow the stock reserves to buy all the necessary fuel for farmers in Serbia, not to be lost, to buy fuel, to be distributed free of charge to people and that they can pay for it next year because, as far as I can see, and you voted for it, the agricultural budget should be doubled in 2013 compared to 2012, so farmers will have what to pay for. So, 65 or 70 million liters of fuel can be put absolutely free of charge for farmers, while the agricultural budget can be released for some 1.5 billion dinars. Here, I'm giving one college recommendation to the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Trade, which I told them 10 days ago once, and five days ago and another, and I want to share it with you instead of spending three four days here to force Soskić to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1127	Thank you. (Vladimir Ilic, from the site: Replica. Vladimir Ilic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1128	Dear colleagues, somewhat and understand the obsession of the Democratic Party with Mladjan Dinkic. It seems to me that they're also fascinated and that he's actually their inaccessible role model. Let me answer the question right now. Of course we'll support the President's proposal to elect a governor. It is his sovereign right to propose to the governor. There is no public competition for the governor. This does not foresee the law, so that, given everything that happened a few days ago and during the debate on the Law amending the NBS Act and today when we have a proposal for a candidate, whom no one here has challenged professionally or in any other way, we will support. That's the answer to your question. As far as the department's concerned, we're absolutely standing by. One of the reasons why it was a first-rate issue for us and for the campaign, and also after that, is that you have led to perfection. That's why we put it in our policy priorities, just to break that system that you've established in this country. You promoted the former prime minister even as a non-partisan person, as a professional, and you put him in such an awkward position that it happened very often, and I witnessed that no decision could be made without you personally consulting about it. Even the former governor spoke plainly about it. As far as decentralisation is concerned, ask the presidents of the municipalities of your party first of all, whether this fiscal decentralisation law saved them from a lot of headaches. You know how devastated municipalities in Serbia are, that they cannot finance the elemental needs and certainly this law is good. Even your mayors welcome him. (Dragan Tomic, from the scene: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1129	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1130	I must refer to the discussion of the predecessor who, in my opinion, injured Article 106, where it says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. In addition to the use of the name and last name of Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, other topics remain as an inheritance in Serbia to this new government and the new parliamentary majority, and these topics are the price of bread. The price of bread is probably the previous government policy of the Democratic Party and party interests of DS officials, who had all the monopolies, when it comes to trade and when it comes to sales abroad. At this point, we have huge corn exports, because there's no ban on corn exports, so nobody's saying anything about it. I guess that's what those same people who've been working at their firms abroad do, so I guess they're going to pay us back and import it when we get into trouble. He says, "There's a lot of drought." I guess that God's will has not brought SNS nor Tomislav Nikolic's choice as president of Serbia, but it is certain that we cannot politicians over some accident, but we must make sure that the less damage our agricultural producers have. It's funny to talk about how now this government can buy and free-distribute fuel to peasants. If anyone wanted to, he could have done it before the election, even though what was done during the election campaign was done. Finally, the right to vote is the right to elect a parliamentary majority. Our proposal to elect governors is the right of the majority and the right to the will of Serbian citizens. I think that the largest number of our voters is absolutely supporting and looking forward to Mrs Tabakovic's arrival as the governor of the NBS, because it will certainly significantly change the overall economic policy that will be brought into line with the Serbian government's policy. Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1131	The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1132	As for what Mr. Ilic was talking about, there can be every one of his rumours and what he's heard is happening somewhere or thinks it's happening here, but it doesn't have any value. Soskic was not involved in politics and was proposed as governor, I am not going into how he ran politics, as a professor at Belgrade University who teaches finance, what he did as a governor, he teaches it to students at the country's most respected high school. Jorganka Tabakovic, not entering any of her other qualities, is the woman who was supposed to be Prime Minister, on the political platform of the SNS. She is a politician, and Soskovic is not a politician. We were some kind of political structure that was trying to give an opportunity to non-party people, and now it's different. You take responsibility for it, but what Mr. Ilic was talking about, it doesn't exactly stand. As for what Mr. Tomic was talking about, the price of bread, whatever politics it is, can't be more than 44 dinars today. Someone might like it or not like it, but it's a great achievement. As for corn exports, Mr. Knezevic, who is the minister of agriculture, said two days ago there will be no export ban. I don't see what Mr. Tomic is talking about here or what he's transferring to me or to the previous government, because this government won't ban exports. That thing can be discussed one way or another. I'm not saying it by heart here, I'm talking about being able to be put at this moment free of charge to farmers at their disposal and some kind of price that can be regressed, they can pay next year, with budget support available for 2013 agrarians, and you said that this budget would be twice as high as the 2012 budget. It's 30 billion now. We're waiting for the budget, to see how 60 billion dinars are going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1133	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd still like to get back on the agenda a little bit, but I can't help but respond to some insinuations. The stock reserves and how they have been managed so far, sir, we can talk for a long time, and how market surpluses have been left to the free market and how prices of agricultural products have fallen, how seasonally at certain times they have grown, how they have been to harm both producers and consumers, etc. Stock reserves could, when there's a surplus, be bought, and that surplus could later be placed on the market. They weren't doing it, they were just importing it, and they were trying to make some balance on the market. As for the course of the euro, we had the National Bank Act a few days ago. The course of the euro is not determined by the governor, but by the authorities of the National Bank, and you will have, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we choose the authorities of the bank, and that must happen within 90 days at the latest, to ask that question. What constantly extends as the biggest topic with the aim of making a little panic among citizens is that famous member 18. I will read what the current governor, leaving, wrote in his resignation in that Article 18 and directed to the National Assembly: "Article 18 is amended by Article 62. The Law on the National Bank, by detailing what is not directly considered to be the purchase of paper from the values issued by the entities referred to in Article 1(1). "The practical effects of this precision are not seen, since even so far in the secondary market, records of the value of these entities could be obtained. So, until today's National Bank and no changes and additions to this law and without accepting that amendment to Article 18, it can buy on the secondary market securities of value.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1135	Mr. Tomic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1136	Replica. I've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1137	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1138	How can I not? I was told my name.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1139	You didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1140	I did. I've been mentioned three times. I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1142	Thank you. Here is the term of independence of the governor who has been left behind so far. I just have to remind you that we had these so-called so-called. Independents and experts have been imported from abroad since 2000, with some courses, and it turns out that the highest officials DS, Djelic, Vlahovic and others, who have countered Serbia and left behind financial chaos and are now spreading it into the hands and hands of everyone. To remind me, in 2006, it seems to me, only DS officials were in power in the area of finance and in the tax administration, and I have to say that there was an extraordinary chaos, indiscipline, privilege, that the financial police served nothing but poor budgeting. Today we have a terrible deficit, because our public finances are absolutely compromised and the choice of a new governor will certainly affect the settlement in that area. Second, I'd like to go back to agriculture for a while. I also come from the same area where the previous speaker is. I must say, I am well aware that our peasants live in Machva and Srem, and I am well aware of how difficult they are right now, and they are very complex in intensive agricultural production. What they said in the elections was a voice to a different Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1143	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1144	I don't have any reservations about opening up the issue of stock reserves whenever Mr. Arsic wants it and in particular. What was the priority of the stock reserve is to keep the price of the wheat. Last year we bought 100,000 tons of wheat for 20 dinars, to keep the price of bread, we sold 80,000 tonnes of wheat per 20 dinars since February, and therefore the price of bread is stable. For the first time, the state has become the largest owner of wheat, I think, in the last 20 years, maybe some years. Anything you want about the stock reserves, with the greatest pleasure we can discuss here or anywhere else and individually. As far as the course is concerned, of course decisions are made as prescribed by law or statute, but the governor of the National Bank is the first person to manage the National Bank under the Constitution. I will say once again, it is a real shame and it is unclear to me why Mrs Tabakovic, who is a national MP at this point and can whenever she wants to enter this hall, does not come here to give us her vision and a few important things, among other things, how she sees the policy of defence of the course or the conduct of a foreign exchange course, as she sees monetary policy, generally, with an escontaneous rate policy, mandatory reserves, reservations, as she sees the policy of control of business banks. No only procedural disturbance exists that Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic comes to this room and tells us about these issues. I suppose she can explain this better than anyone here from the MPs, whether they're from the SNS or some other parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1145	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days, through a proposal to amend and supplement the law, I have already listened to and who will be the new governor and what he has done to the outgoing governor. Anyway, the former government has been crying over the fate of the outgoing governor who has already resigned, as – we want to replace Soskovic. I often wonder – what was Soskovic and what did he owe this country before he became governor, when such a financial gromada, when such financial authority, when without him so much cannot, and when his job, that is, when the loss of his job is a real danger to the nation, then after him, there is nothing, there will be no foreign reserves, there will be no stable course, there will be no macroeconomic policy? I really don't understand, unlike the former governor I mentioned, George Wyfert, what was former Governor Soskic before he became governor and what did he owe this country a great debt? I was also talking about preserving the course. I certainly think the new governor will continue to do so, but not in the way the former government did. As you gentlemen have preserved your course, we all know it well, by excessive borrowing abroad, directly to maintain our course, directly to public spending. So the money didn't go through production to get public consumption, but to the shortcut to public consumption, to the preservation of course. You've been in charge of the IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, and you've come to Azerbaijan, to Aliev. You built monuments in Belgrade's parks, so you could have a place to take money and maintain your course. The course is guarded by goods, money is goods. So, I believe that a new governor, unlike you, will be able to bring monetary policy into line with macroeconomic policy and demand that price stability, that the stability of the course rests on some production rather than excessive borrowing, if necessary to Azerbaijan. You also said here that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank Act and the new governor only need Palma and me. I don't know why I need the NBS, just me. For Palma, he'll say it himself. I'm a farmer who handles 450 acres. I need the National Bank, not the National Bank to me. I'm in production. I know how to make money. You gentlemen only knew how money was spent. Serbia in your time did not live on what was earned, but on the person in charge. You also complained that the new governor would question the neutrality and independence of the NBS. Let's be honest with you and us, so let's see what the NBS is from and what Governor Soskic was independent of. Are you telling me that Mr. Tadic suggested an independent figure for the governor just like that, although it is known that he was everything and everything in this country, almost everything? Secondly, if it was independent and the National Bank was neutral, it was on the wrong side of an independent institution. So they were independent of the people, of the state and of the National Assembly, but that's why he wasn't independent of import lobbies, of government pressure, of government that wasn't thinking about heart and mind, but with a wallet, he wasn't independent of various consulting houses, for example, CES Mecon, etc. I also felt that choosing a new governor meant fear and that the former government was afraid of bank control. What will be found there remains to be seen. It is certain that for the recovery of two or three banks, the former government from the budget and the poor girl has kidnapped 200 million to resuscitate the bank -- Vojvodina Development Bank, if I'm not mistaken, the Serbian Bank, or that's all Agrobank will have to do. So, take from those where one-third skips breakfast or lunch, the other two-thirds skip two meals, to get rid of rich bankers and people who have made capital through banks that are being paid off by the poor, I think it's a real little crime. You also said that the new governor would spend his foreign reserve. What foreign reserve? Let's see what's left in the reserves. If we refuse to save citizens and mandatory bank reserves, I don't believe there are more than five to six billion euros. That's how long he stays in the register. How about we see how much debt you've made? The government debt has increased to 25 billion, a trade deficit to six billion annually. Citizens owe domestic banks with a foreign name of 20 billion and it's realistic to expect that through the repayment of loans, they turn it into foreign exchanges and take it out. So there's maybe five or six billion in foreign exchange reserves, but that's why you left a debt of 60 billion. If we take that from 2000 to today, spent what we got on the people's energy on October 5th, that buzzed through Serbia 50 to 70 billion, it's not hard to guess what all the new governors will find and the new leadership of the National Bank when they enter there. Our problem isn't even the height of the debt. Our problem is that when you made that debt, you didn't take care of the structure of the debt and you didn't take care of the resources to repay the debt. The structure of our debt is short-term, mostly short-term debts. Over the next three years, it will reach the return of 11 billion euros, and in foreign exchange reserves we have five. So the source of the debt return was supposed to be some kind of economy, which, through some export variant, was supposed to provide foreign reserves, to provide the money to pay off the debt. Gentlemen, you didn't do it. I must say, you've spent everything you've had. You've spent more than we've had and left nothing but debts. You've done private business. No production, no exports, the time has come - give back what you've done, and you're giving us moral sermons. There were also words of agriculture here. A former agriculture minister, formerly formerly, and former agriculture minister, mentioned their agricultural policies and trade reserves. The former minister does not recognise what his colleague, or colleagues, did two or three mandates before him. For him, the agricultural policy of the Democratic Party was created only from the moment he became a minister, otherwise the previous policy doesn't count - my mother. The Democratic Party is only responsible for the moves of its last minister, but is not responsible for Sasha Dragin. When you were talking about stock reserves, let me say something. I have personally warned you – what are the provisions of this country's stock reserves? They served the private interests of a particular group of people. During your term of office, without mistaken souls, and during the term of office of former agriculture ministers and former trade ministers, not to list all names, the stock reserves did not serve to preserve the price stability and security of the market, the security of the state from possible military and economic pressures. You paid for the fog instead of the real stuff. Instead of buying wheat and corn, money was spent. In the stock reserves, authorized warehouses depicted peasant corn that was given for storage as corn - Mothers to me, I bought this for your money, for the money of the state. Not only that, but every month you've paid to keep the alleged stock reserves, but in fact you paid for the fog. (President: Please return to the topic. Hold on, I'm done. You paid for that fog every month, I think, one percent. I personally warned you by e-mail that if I was a difficult opposition, you should bring them under emergency into the function they should be in. In the end, I would say that Serbia is a really big country when it could stand you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1147	Mr. Petrovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1148	It wouldn't be the last one and it wouldn't be worth saying anything against. Everyone has the right to say what they think and believe. After all, it is a function of the National Assembly and of this kind of debate. But I have to answer these lies and things that are unfounded. Like today, the stock reserves have been run over the past year or a year and a half by having the money that exists. I'm not going to spread that thing any further. Serbia needs two or three hundred million euros in order to truly become one functional force that can solve most of the problem, at least as far as food is concerned, not to go into other things. With the money available, I will repeat again, for the first time in more than 20 years, Serbia has become the largest wheat owner in the country. When you have less money than you need, you must choose what will be your policy goal. Preserving the price of bread, the stability of the wheat market was the aim of the stock reserves. It would've been nice if there'd been more money, so some other things could've been such a priority. Now the new government has a chance to find a way to secure money for the stock reserves, so that's what happens. The bread in this country today cannot be more expensive than 44 dinars. At the beginning of 2011, there were 54 dinars, with a tendency to double the price. That's what the stock reserves used. I'd like to see whose private interest it was doing stock reserves, who's getting rich in these years, because the stock reserves have been working one way or the other? They're not serving anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1149	Time. I would ask all the MPs to return to the topic, which is the debate on the election of the governor of the NBS. Mr. Risticevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1150	I wouldn't answer the line, but there's a big lie here. First, it is not true that for the first time Serbia left the largest quantity of 100,000 tonnes of wheat in the stock reserves. It's just not true. It's a lie. That's my responsibility. If it's true, I'm prepared to return my parliamentary mandate. If it's not true, I expect my colleague to do the same. I claim there are 550,000 tonnes of wheat left in the stock reserves during 2002-2003. I hope there is a government representative here who inherited the government of Zoran Djindjic and Mr. Zivkovic who can confirm that. If it's not true that there are over 500,000 tons of wheat left in the stock reserves, which is sold in a strange way next year at some price far below the market price, I'm not going in, I'm ready to withdraw and return my mandate. If what I'm saying is true, I expect my colleague to do the same. A colleague also spoke of a ban on exports. As soon as he came to the post of minister, he banned the export. We farmers, whenever prices are slightly higher in the environment, ban exports and say – now it is forbidden to export for the sake of the food security of our market. When there's something cheaper out there, they say - why don't you take it out if you have anywhere to take it? They're also talking about a budget that, look, is 30 billion. I don't know how much of it went directly to agriculture, but some counselors were hired. I haven't seen one of them, and I'm doing 450 acres of land, and I don't know what they could advise me, because some of them were in adulthood, missed dibidos investment. So the price stability, especially the price of bread, wasn't dependent on anyone, but depended on us farmers and the ban on exporting wheat. So it was directly at the expense of agricultural producers. Also, just one more sentence to add to the stock reserves... (Chairman: Time, please. ) If there has been no abuse, I am prepared to return my mandate, but if there has been an abuse of Mr Petrovic, return it to you, is it agreed?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1151	The word is Mr. Milenko Deretta. Please, your parliamentary group only has seven minutes left, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1152	Eight minutes, my colleague spoke for eight minutes and 33 seconds. We have 16 minutes and something. That minute doesn't mean much to you, it means a lot to me. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I have the impression that I am attending a kind of family debate that tries to determine who did what, and that those who are advertised responsible do not have the opportunity to talk about it. It is obvious, however, that it is not disputed to talk about how Mr. Šoškić was doing his job, but it is controversial that he did not get a chance to explain it. As it is not disputed that we should hear what Mrs. Tabakovic thinks she's doing as governor of the National Bank, but it is controversial that she is not here to discuss it with us. This absence of public debate and the possibility of talking to people who will be responsible for something is the essence of the problem we are facing. It doesn't bring me back to the '90s, I have to say, it brings me back a lot further. It brings me back to the time when one party and party membership were a prerequisite for any function. If that time is coming back, then we're really coming into a period that, perhaps, some of us will be happy about, but I was convinced that it's far, far behind us. Of course, what I was particularly interested in in this whole process is this urgency. What is it that needs to be prevented so urgently, or what is it that needs to be done so urgently that this whole procedure is managed in such a way? I have to say, since I'm not an economist by profession, I've looked at what the experts said about it and I can bring it down to two basic topics that they pointed to. The first is, of course, that if we expect IMF funds, we need to meet certain requirements on reform. If the executive authority has a more direct impact on the incursion of foreign reserves, we won't have to meet those conditions. The National Bank will be able, as they say, to donate money to selected businessmen and entrepreneurs and party alike and to do so without any control. It's the first threat that threatens. The last question – what will happen when about five billion are exhausted, which are not part of the foreign savings, but also what is the foreign currency savings? That's the first fear. The second, of course, is the direct control of the government's operations of all banks and the possibility of providing again favourable loans through various pressures on these banks, etc., which will destabilize Serbia's banking system in some ways. Of course, these essential things are not talked about, it's not the agenda point, the agenda point is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković and I have to say that, and my experience in contact with her, she's an extremely cultural and tolerated person, but I have a procedural question. In fact, democracy is procedures and the rule of law is procedures. For a new governor, we can choose someone who is not a functioner and who is not an MP. At this point, I have no information that Mrs Tabakovic resigned as a party and I have no information that she stopped her mandate in the assembly. So it's not enough for us, procedurally, to get further information that due to the transition to another function, Mrs Tabakovic is no longer a Member of Parliament. No, so she can move on to that function she's moving on to, she can't be a messenger anymore. I ask the Assembly's Legal Service to answer me in this sense – will the vote under this proposal be against the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1153	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1154	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no doubt that today we will elect Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I have no doubt that Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic's election will provide the widest possible support in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I am telling you this, probably subjective, because it is a great honor for me to work together with Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković on the creation of the SNS, because it is a great honor for me to have Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković all these years and a colleague, and above all a friend. However, to today's address to you and to the Serbian public, I was encouraged by a fellow member of the opposition party in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. For understandable reasons, I can't name a colleague. I can only say it's not from the DSS. We met in the hall in the House of National Assembly this morning and with a voice that was half whispered, he told me that because of party discipline he could not vote for Yorvanka Tabakovic, but he still cannot vote against Jorvanka Tabakovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and will not be in the hall at the time of the vote. I think that is sufficient proof of the support Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic has in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and in the professional public, and most of all with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have no doubt that Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic's job as governor of the National Bank of Serbia will be carried out in a committed, responsible manner, that she will be committed much more than Mr. Shoskovic and many former governors. What will be my only suggestion to the future governor, both as a result of better quality future work and not forgetting, is to make a clear transfer of duty. The former governor and management of the National Bank of Serbia and its monetary policy have failed to perform any of the five functions outlined. By managing money and interest rates, they did not provide a stable, low inflation rate in the previous period, which also made it impossible for businesses, and for Serbian citizens to achieve sustainable economic development in a favourable environment. The National Bank of Serbia has an obligation to take care of both the value of the national currency and to strengthen trust in the dinar. But what is reality? In just five months, based on exchange rate growth, the economy is more in charge of more than 2.5 billion euros, and citizens on the same basis for more than 700m euros. When we add a billion-euro figure spent foreign reserves burned to unsuccessful interventions in order to defend the exchange rate, it turns out that in just a few months we are more in charge of nearly five billion euros. And that's because of the poor policy of the independent National Bank of Serbia. The level of foreign reserves is currently 10.15 billion euros, and in a year that level of foreign reserves has dropped by nearly two billion euros. About the problems of effective carrying out payment traffic, and the control of business banks and other financial institutions, such as the Vojvodine Development Bank, Metals Bank, I'm not even talking. Eighty-fivem euros in taxpayers' money, the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia was spent on forming a new Agrobank. On the agenda comes the buffering of a minus of over 300m euros, but those of old Agrobanks. 1 Do you think it must be left without responsibility? Any responsibility. Someone's gonna have to answer for all that. Since the beginning of the year, 76m euros or seven times less than in the same period last year have been sold on debt paper sales. The outflow of foreign direct investment this year is at 372m euros. However, I have seen and heard from today’s debate that the MPs from the former regime do not care. You do not care about the problems that are vital to both citizens and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which you will agree with the NBS, former Governor Soskic has failed to resolve. Gentlemen, there's something else that hurts you. You gentlemen of the former regime are in pain that Mrs Tabakovic has been proposed by the president of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a man who kept his word and became president of all citizens, not political parties. Your problem is that the proposal came from Andric's wedding, where it should have come from, not from the Crown Street, where the proposal came from for the former governor, Mr Shoskovic. In front of Mrs Tabakovic there is a big and responsible job and I wish her all the luck in doing this job, and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for all of us. And I want you gentlemen of the former regime to wake up from a 12-year-old dream, to realize that you have not put a beauty to sleep and to accept the reality that is called, that you are the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1155	The word is Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1156	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, the LDP has already said that amendments and additions to the NBS Act have brought a party bank to this country because the NBS is no longer independent. By introducing the Director of the Authority with the powers it has, we can clearly say that this bank will actually have two governors. The candidate responsible for the governor would resign to the parliamentary post and to the post in the party. This has not been done so far, because we have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, where Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, who sat down this morning and where the function of Alexander Vulin stopped. The ruling majority deleted the disputed member of the law with an amendment that the NBS could buy securities from values on the secondary market, which represents the possibility of indirect State lending. At the same session, we had the opportunity to hear, by the ruling majority, that the former governor said it was possible under the law, but that he didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1157	Please let Mrs. Gerov speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1158	Is the withdrawal of this member, that the NBS can buy securities of value on the secondary market just a cover of remarks held by the World Bank, the EU and the European Commission, and whether the new governor will remain to be seen. I would remind Serbian citizens that the SNS in its White Paper and Election Programme has promised citizens, I quote -- at this point the most important task of the SNS is to prevent non-economic borrowings that will buy social peace and the survival of the existing coalition in power. We, for days from your coalition partners, have the opportunity to hear and hear about new borrowings. About the department, I don't even want to talk. It was a colorful lie for the elections, and the JS and the URS have already made that clear. Finally, I would also like to say that I hope that the new and future governor will implement the NBS policy, whose primary goal is to define the stability of the price. inflation, that in six months or in a year we wouldn't have an inflation of 30%. I hope the governor will not allow the euro course to jump, as it has always been, before the end of the month between 28th and 30th of the month when all citizens pay off their housing loans, which are in charge of euros and the loans of businesses are charged at the same time. I really hope that the euro course from now on will not jump during that period, and thus additionally burden the over-indebted citizens and the economy. I find it hard to believe that Mrs Tabakovic, however, will be able, as a party official, to have enough courage and readiness to resist the government's wishes, because her party is an integral part of the government, and especially to the wishes of Mladjan Dinkic, who will in fact be the second governor, and which will become the takeover of the G17 Plus director. Since Mrs Tabakovic is still a folk MP, she was supposed to be here today in the benches with us and answer our ban to some simple questions and remove our suspicions, whether or not the state reserves will be spent. Will the NBS take advantage of the possibility to buy securities of value on the secondary market? What will be the course of the euro? What will be the interest rates? What's the NBS monetary policy going to be? She had that possibility. If she wanted, she could use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1159	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1160	Mrs. Gerov, Mladjan Dinkic has already been governor and has no intention of doing so for the second time. I'd like you to tell me, too, and everyone else who's been commenting on that candidate for that famous bank supervisor, to give me that name, because I'd like to know, because I don't know that name. If you already know who it's about, you know it's already been determined and proposed, I don't know, so I'd like to know that we wouldn't speculate about it. Let me tell you something very professional, obviously you're not being directed. The National Bank was buying and buying HOV, that's her job. It is about the fact that the National Bank in its portfolio, i.e. in foreign reserves, holds different forms of efficiency, from cash efficiency, to deposits in other countries' central banks, to first-class HOV, which are certainly part of the foreign reserve, there is no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1161	Thank you. Mr. Milenic, you've reached out, but you have no right to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Gerov. I'm sorry, he reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we have an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1162	I am advocating Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that interpreting the views of the MP, which is not authentic, is the right to reply. A previous debater claiming that the URS also denied in the campaign a representative principle of department, I recognise, I apologize if I'm wrong, I'm referring to discussions from discussions in particular from the previous session that I have, so I'd just like to rephrase it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1163	Thank you. Mrs. Gerov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1164	First of all, I'm glad you didn't deny it about the department, and whether I'm an expert or not in the work of the National Bank, I'm not, because I'm not an economist, I'm a graduate electronics engineer. When I spoke, I wasn't talking about HOV because I know what all the National Bank buys HOV, but we were talking about HOV only on the secondary market, because we had a statement from the former governor that he wasn't using his right to do so. If in that statement, he deceived us here by the MPs, then I can apologize and say I told the truth. I was only talking about those HOVs. As far as the Director of the Supervisory Authority is concerned, we've had opportunities in the papers to see that it's going to be the G17 plus frame. Many times already happened here, when we talked about the governor, and there was always a question – where did you get that name and name? Here it is now being confirmed that Jorgenka Tabakovic is a candidate for governor. Do you want to tell me that the director of the supervisory board, Mr. Ilic, is not going to be a candidate for G 17 plus? Then deny me and tell me I've told a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1165	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1166	You don't understand, though, I'm sorry, but I have to tell you, the National Bank will be buying securities of value on the secondary market. So you obviously don't understand, you don't even understand what the secondary market is, but you fenced, you said you weren't qualified, so I don't blame you very much. When it comes to the department, you haven't answered the name you're talking about without me knowing it. I'm a high-ranking G 17 plus and I'd have to know that. I don't know. Either I'm uninformed or you speculate on that name. You owe here an apology if it turns out that what you were saying, announcing, is speculative. As far as departmentation is concerned, I call on all of you, of course I call on the citizens of Serbia and the media to, regarding those positions in the ministries that are managed by G17 officials, plus comment, present to the public all the facts about candidates, whether or not high officials or members of the party, whether they are professional or not professional, and in that sense we will all have opportunities to see and how they will be appointed, how they will be elected in competitions and who they are candidates. So I'm asking you not to prejudge or in advance accuse anyone of something he didn't even try to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1167	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that this article of the 18th Amendment is still current and the addition of the National Bank Act. I tried to point out that MPs are still not expanding, that they are not trying to lead citizens astray that foreign reserves will be spent on the secondary market of securities of value. The National Bank has more funds collection and reserve maintenance instruments, other than health reserves, and that is what it has, as its deposits with other banks, gold reserves, etc., in foreign reserves and reserves of the National Bank, are also the funds deposited by commercial banks. On the secondary market, often business banks buy government securities of value, and then the National Bank changes, because of its monetary policy, how many reserves banks should be deposited in the National Bank. Then the bank, the business bank, instead of cash or any other aggregate, can lay state securities of value as a guarantee. It's done and it's not controversial. We are not entering the principle that foreign exchange reserves are purchased on the secondary market, but that they are laid down as guarantees. What's the use? The bank kept its share of the effect, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the rise, that is, the interest the state has to pay to the bank, no longer belongs to the bank, but to the National Bank. Quite logical ways of thinking and methods of protecting the business of the National Bank and the State.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1169	Thank you. Radmila Gerov, come in. Excuse me, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1170	I remind you, the chairman, that I have just explained, and colleague Gerov has confirmed this, that the 104th member of the Rules of Procedure guarantees me the right to the replica, in case I misread the views that I have just expressed, and yet you have not given me that right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1171	Article 104(2) states... (Saša Milenic: First position. ) The first position - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. Paragraph 3 states - on the application of the rights set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1172	I pray that if you dispute that this is a done breach of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly in the day of voting declares it... (President: I agree. )......................................................................................................... Because our right to discussion is determined by the Rules of Procedure, not by anyone's instruction or anyone's intent on who's supposed to speak here and who shouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1173	Thank you. Radmila Gerov, straight to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1174	I'll apologize anyway, unless the director of the surveillance board is from line G 17 plus. I think we understand each other perfectly clearly. But if it is, I expect the same from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1175	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1176	Dear MPs, amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the election of a new governor follows a strong campaign of considerable pressure on the majority of this house and the intimidation of citizens that when a new governor is elected, a flood will follow. Who's actually scaring the citizens and who's running this campaign? It's those who so mercilessly over the past four years have robbed the state and the citizens, destroyed our economy, set up monopolies, taken away many of us and our children right to the future. Now you'd have the same to hold privileged positions, to keep robbing, and that's why they're so panickingly afraid of the governor's changes. Of course, there is no magic wand that can convince citizens that in the past four years they have not established unprecedented political control over all the structures of society and state. But now they're telling us about the alleged threat of NBS independence. The question arises – whether there was any segment of society and state over which they did not establish full political-cumulative and robbery control. Furthermore, in one daily list today, an ambassador of a powerful Western state in the author's text says that – political pressure led in recent weeks on the governor of the NBS, which seeks his resignation and proposed amendments to the NBS Act that weaken the autonomy of governors, are a defeat of the rule of law. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is the National Assembly that has full legality and legitimacy to pass laws, to elect and resolve the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and to oversee his work. How, then, it is possible that what this congregation is doing is a defeat of the rule of law. On the contrary, it will be that We may strengthen the rule of law. This kind of pressure, not only is it unacceptable and inappropriate, but it is a distraction of the National Assembly in its work. As for the change, the former non-democratic regime has brought Serbian citizens into poverty, hunger, unemployment, despair and misery. Changing the regime in past elections is a major change and a step forward. In Serbia, when something is wrong, we all think it should be changed. It is not our goal to establish political control over the National Bank of Serbia, as the former regime probably did not. Let's believe that story, the colorful lie. Our goal is to change what's wrong. What's wrong with the work of governors and NBS in the past. Here's just a few clues. The misruled policy of high and unhealthy monetary reserves was artificially inflated, becoming the main channel for uncontrollable money emissions. The economy is facing foreign borrowing, where debts simply exploded, and high foreign exchange reserves artificially inflated foreign reserves. Debts grew, but so did company indifference. The current monetary policy is not a boon in the function of domestic economy and development, but rather, it would say, the interests of some foreign banks and some large capital. Without the necessary support of the Central Bank, the economy is unable to get out of the crisis. The central bank has lost control of the business banks, especially with the majority foreign capital, and such is, if I am not mistaken, 33 today 25, with almost 90% of the financial potential and over 84% of the credit potential. The central bank almost prays for these banks, which, of course, are managed solely by their own interest and profit, and at least by the development and liquidity of the Serbian economy, to knock down interest rates, as the interest margin is highest in Europe, is nine to ten per cent. The economy in a deep crisis and huge indifference is completely dependent on bank loans and cannot come from a crisis with huge interest ranging from 18-30%, even more. The economy is at great loss and without its own resources and capital. The central bank has no control over cash flows or financial institutions, and this must lead to a targeted and quality monetary policy. She has to control all monetary and financial flows. That's so far gone. It is known that close to 70,000 companies are invulnerable, that tens of thousands are in bankruptcy or are on the verge of being shut down, and our central bank and our former governor is not touching it. At the end of 2011, the economy used about 400 billion short-term loans to banks, but managed to keep only 89 billion. Everything went to other sectors, but the interest economy has to pay. The financial system must be fundamentally changed and adapted to the real sector. Companies are massively in debt abroad because they are inaccessible with domestic money and expensive loans. They thus increased their external debt from 607m from 2001 to over nine billion euros in 2012. It will take great effort and knowledge to make a total turn away from financial breakdowns and negative flows in the economy in reviving the economy and social rebirth. The first step is to put our central bank, the National Bank of Serbia in the right place. That is exactly what we are doing right now, building the necessary financial infrastructure for a new development strategy and setting up public finances and distributions, with a completely different monetary policy. The person who is supposed to do the job, primarily Jorgvanka Tabakovic, when she takes over the National Bank of Serbia, when she shows the results we expect from her and the citizens, then I believe those who are now saying that her choice as governor is setting up some kind of political control over the National Bank of Serbia will have to admit that they were wrong. If they have the morale of politics, then they must repent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1177	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1178	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think this discussion today should be personal and that it is intended for us to discuss the personal qualities and characteristics of Jorgenka Tabakovic, although they are very important. I don't think there's anyone in the O.R. who doesn't think she's a decent, tolerated woman and there's no dispute, but we need to talk about what's behind today's election of governors. One Polish Corps came down to what would be a new monetary policy. Unfortunately, we are denied the answer to know what this policy is, how will it be implemented and what will be its objectives? We received assurances from one coalition partner, Dragan Markovic Palma, that the moment Jorgenka Tabakovic enters office, the dinar course will immediately begin. At the same time, the professors of the Faculty of Economics gave their assessment that the course would begin to fall when we further in debt or extremely increase exports. And for both of us, we didn't get what the concept was going to be, where we're going to be in debt, to what extent, are we going to break down the limits that we set for ourselves and, on the other hand, if we're going to increase exports, who's going to do it and how? So today we are discussing ourselves, not really knowing where monetary policy is going to go and what the National Bank's policy is going to be. The second topic that has been imposed is what is behind the amendment of the National Bank Act, which has also conditioned today's election of a new governor. Dragan Markovic Palma also told us that the story of the department was a colorful pre-election lie and that it must have been very stupid who believed it, since everything was said in the campaign. I admit that I belong to this stupid group of citizens who believe that a man must respect the spoken word or promise, and that in this sense today it is offensive to sound the statements of representatives of G17, who were otherwise advocates of the department, that they will implement it, but in their ministries. I'm really sorry, but those who voted for the government voted in favour of the coalition programme and joint promises, which weren't that every citizen must know who's got who's got who's cooler and who's got which one. In line with this, I guess Aleksandar Vukic will then be the only one who will fight corruption, and other ministries may have corruption, and Mladjan Dinkic will deal with the departmentalisation in his ministry, which is not valid for the other institutions. This is indeed offensive behaviour towards the citizens of Serbia, which leads us not to reason that citizens think that all politicians are liars, thieves and, on the other hand, that the elections serve as a general party and personal grab, rather than for Serbia to be better. Today we are really looking at a series of moves that lead us to a party state that we did not have, I think, at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. This means that we first looked at a fully anti-constitutional member of the 38th Government Act, which allowed the minister to have a discretionary right that he never had, that despite the commission, which assesses the work of officials elected in the competition, the minister will now get those rights, we will abolish institutions one after the other. It's going to be party power, and it's going to be mostly tight groups of people. We got an explanation from Minister Knezevic himself, that the agrarian advisors were doing a great job, that they needed farmers, but that he believed that they were all party people, so that by texting them, of course with a tendency to re-set up some who were his people. We attend once the introduction of a brutal party state, and that is the problem. You can say – you representatives of the former regime are sad and desperate to lose power, I can say – great, I agree, but are the European Commission, the IMF and the World Bank the same groups of desperate people who have lost something so they attack solutions like this? Is this ambassador who wrote that open letter to the public and the authorial text the same desperate man who worked for the Crown, so now it's hard for him to accept the truth? Are we going to war with the whole world when it gives us objections to our work? Remember that you adopted in the government programme that the EU is your primary goal. That means some rules, that means some values. That means you can't tell them all that they're stupid, that they're scarred, because there's no party official in all these countries who's the governor. It doesn't exist. Romania, if you take an example, is 22 years old by the same governor and has changed power. You can say DS isn't right, but you don't have to explain to us that everything you do is great compared to how bad we are, because the citizens of you want to hear what you're gonna do well. The worst thing you can do is this disgrace we watch every day. The government does not exist for two weeks, and each day one of the relevant international institutions sends criticism and objections to its work. Because I want you to bring this country to negotiations by the end of the year, because I want to see Serbia in the EU, because I want to have a regulated rule of law and I don't want to be some "sui generic case" that doesn't exist anywhere anymore. There's nowhere to be found that the minister determines which official has been doing his job well. There's no party governor anywhere. We're going to introduce all of this and explain to the Democrats what they're saying, they're actually unhappy about the loss of choice. In the end, the most important question. The question arises how is it that, if there was a sharpness on the political scene between the advances and the Democrats, who are the main opponents, there was never such a sharpness as between SNS and G17, Jorganka Tabakovic and Mladjan Dinkic? You remember, Youtube was flooded with these insults, as the man called Jorgenka Tabakovic in his words. Today he supports her. What's behind that? Post-love? A coalition agreement? No, it's a common interest, that if we appoint a party governor, then it gives the other party the right to appoint a party director of the supervisory board and then get another lever of power. That's how we're gonna do it until we destroy all the institutions. Let me tell you, Jorgenka Tabakovic said today, giving a statement that next week Serbia will receive, or this week, two protecters of citizens, ombudsman and governor. But there are two important differences that we are culturally, civilizedly different from independent institutions. You know that this previous government has inherited the state audit institution, Sabic, the information trustee, Jakovic as an Ombudsman, and no one has thought to resolve them. On the contrary, when Sabic's new mandate came last year, all parties agreed to re-propose him. We were not interested in what the previous government had proposed and who was personally behind it. Today, unfortunately, these political cultures are missing, and not all independent institutions have been chosen for more years than the duration of the government, to protect their independence. If we put in place a rule now that every government is changing them, we really are destroying them just as Tempo has just said, the rule of law, regardless of what Parliament's decisions are behind that which, believe me, can be illegal and unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly established that. Even though we are representatives of the people, we have often made scandalous mistakes that made us have to answer. Finally, let me tell you that a vice governor has resigned under this kind of pressure, but that's less important, it's expected that all people from indifference will do it. This just proves that it is not an accident that the entire professional public has said that all these amendments to the NBS law are, in fact, the introduction of the destruction of its independence and the introduction of the discretionary distribution of money to some people by the principle of individual ties and personal ties and that it will completely undermine the financial stability of the state. With Bojan Markovic's quote, which you will unquestionably agree to, however, is an expert: "Compromis is in terms of doing to some economic or state entities, about what you would not do to everyone, it would completely dissipate the efficiency of monetary policy and lead to long-term costs for the Serbian people and the state." I pray and hope the National Bank doesn't do that. So, I pray and hope, and I will end with it" that Jorvanka Tabakovic will not succumb to the pressures of financial and party lobbies and that, honestly and honestly, as she has done in this assembly, will defend the interests of Serbian citizens. I wish her every success in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1179	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't help but think once that, despite all the wishes that the subject of one candidate for governor would be his earlier work, even in bodies like the Ministry, it would be an assessment of his qualities whether or not he should, whether he deserves to be governor, there should be a discussion here. However, we now have a story here that a party state is being made here. On the side, MPs can say whatever they want, but we don't make a party state or family bodies. I don't know that his own brother, Jorgenka Tabakovic, is the judge of the Constitutional Court. I don't even know that any other brother is a senior court judge. I don't know where these dead-end sittings of the judge were resolved and appointed, who made those lists. I know about the fireman who made the lists, but I don't know about all the other judges. What's happening here now is happening publicly. No cover-up, no furniture. It's all there. Don't say that. You have the right if Jorgenka doesn't deserve to say it – she doesn't deserve to be explained and explained, but don't give any flat-rate reviews about it. What's monetary policy going to be like? Well, it's known, it's brought by the National Bank. Don't say that. Does it have integrity? I thought I'd call you when this debate is over, and we'll talk about that integrity right from the time she was a minister and how she held on to the integrity of her personal and ministry that she was leading at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1181	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1182	I didn't quite understand who you were talking to. If you've been having sex with me, I've said very strictly, and that's how it started and ended, that Jorgenka Tabakovic must not be on any personal basis the subject of today's debate. It could be the way she came to be governor, it could be what the new leadership of the National Bank will do, but personally attacking Jorgenka Tabakovic is embarrassing. As you can see, I've never done that in my life. I really don't understand who you're talking to, and especially her work at the ministry, which I didn't even mention. Unlike this political culture, which you will never have, you are flaunting with me by discussing and by not being able to answer. What's the problem with a family being successful? I really don't understand you. You must once show a new political culture. What's the next step, that when someone from the World Bank, the IMF, tells you something, you say - no, you're actually gay? Where does that lead? Mr. Arsic, let's discuss what the new policy is monetary, what's good going to happen to the citizens of Serbia, why this concept that you've proposed is good, why we're all wrong, but don't insult people so primitively. I won't answer that, and I'll never answer you in that way who's who in your ranks and who's his sister-in-law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1183	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I'd like to inform you that, on the basis of Article 87. Rules of Procedure, we'll continue our work after 18 hours. For holding a water polo game our team between 15 and 16 hours, during that period I set a break of an hour. Please have an understanding of our team. So, we'll be working till 3:00, and then there'll be an hour's break. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Replica. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1184	You know the success of the family and whether someone is successful in the first place is seen even in the fact that the whole family stands up for one who should be the most successful and everyone else becomes his victims. The only satisfaction is his success. The fact that you're trying to justify your success, that, as a MP, you're voting for a close relative in high judicial authorities, can't justify you. It's a classic conflict of interest. It may not be illegal, but it's immoral anyway. You know, when the president of the state proposes judges, MPs choose. When circumstances arise, the integrity of both MPs and judges and the president of the state is at stake. That's why we had the kind of justice reform we had. Unfortunately, a lot of damage has been done, so we'll see how we get out of all this trouble. Don't talk about how some are just as worthy, capable, and moral to be found at all the important state functions in the Republic. (Jelena Trivan, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1185	Replica, Mrs. Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1186	If you want to lie to people, and you have fewer political cultures, then inform yourself. Please be informed that no vote has been made for the proposals of the High Council of the Assembly. We haven't said anything about it at all, and in that sense, I'm asking for an apology for what you say I voted. Now let me explain to you nicely about this policy that someone needs to be sacrificed for someone. My brother and my brother have been in the judiciary all these years since they're older than me. One of the positions of the republic's defence attorney, who also performed during the time of Vojislav Kostunica, so in two terms, came to that place, so from a very high judicial post, which he was elected to while I was the opposition. The second was the judge of the Court of First Instance, and he stayed there, not in a higher court. So he didn't move forward in his career. I didn't vote for either one. So these are simple and simple facts, which will be confirmed by your colleague Cvian, who knows all about it. If you think that the principle is that everyone is sacrificing for one and that within one family is wrong, it is not moral, however, that other people are doing something, successful or good, please inform Tomislav Nikolic of this principle and ask that his son Radomir is not running for mayor, vice president of the party, etc., that all those relatives from the cabinet come out, and I will defend his right, that despite the fact that the president, his children and his relatives should not be victims of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1187	I'm asking the MPs to, I've allowed these replicas, so now let's get back to discussing the agenda point. The agenda is the choice of governor. I personally oppose the mention of any family member, in the debate, especially those who do not participate in public life, and I ask all MPs to be the principle of working in this house, to stick to the agenda and, of course, the Rules of Procedure. I don't think everything else leads to an increase in the dignity of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Arsic, I beg you, after this replica, either give up on her... Thank you. I give my word to Mrs. Savelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1188	Here I am going to go back to those citizens from the beginning of the story and I really don't think they have any reason to be offended, because neither the United Regions of Serbia nor the G17 plus, which works within the United Regions, have given up their programme of separation, nor do they intend to do it in the next four years, how much they plan to be part of this assembly majority. So, we just, and last time, and now we're trying to say that we're making a difference between separation and a politicism, and it remains in any case our primary goal and the basic task, which we've gathered around. What I want to point out as a special example is the fact that many times the appointed Minister Dinkic has made the best example of the department, which implies – not our people at all costs at all places and at all times, who in his cabinet for one of the closest associates has chosen an extremely professional person, a woman who is valued in international circles and has received numerous recognitions, and otherwise is a member of the DS. We believe that this is a great way of department, regardless of what we know of its politicalness, much greater departisation than, say, the fact of the choice of judges and reform of the judicial system, in which all the judges, as the law requires, were officially past politics, and we all know from what kitchen they came from.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1189	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Hope Kolundji called.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1190	Mr. President, you have violated Article 104. Rules of Procedure. There is no basis in the Rules of Procedure for which you could give your previous speaker a word. In Article 104, it is very clear that in the name of the parliamentary group, who can answer for a word and the right to a replica has only one who is personally mentioned and who was personally referred to by offensive or misread words. So please don't do it in the future, because then it kind of breaks every rule in this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1191	Ms. Saveljic is the deputy head of the parliamentary group and since the head of the parliamentary group is not present, on that basis, I hope you understand that I had the right to give her my word. We're moving on with our work. The next speaker is Mrs Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1192	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole story today about whether we should talk about Mrs. Jorgovanka Tabakovic as a person, a party official, an expert, a candidate for one of the highest public functions in the country, is indeed becoming groundless, since the argument presented by members of the opposition in parliament was based on a reverse story about the alleged violation of the department. Here's why I think that's the story of the department. If departisation is a concept that should mean that none of those parties who run as candidates for public office, if that means that they never have to do anything in the state, that no one should recognize their strength, their moral strength, the professional strength, if you want the political force, which was measured in the elections, because I remind you that Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, for 20 years in political life, participated in all the elections, was a recognizable policy holder who had won over the last three and a half years, as you can see, the greatest support of citizens. It has even a kind of direct legitimacy and trust which as a person who represented the economic concept and economic reform programme, which she thought should be implemented, received support from citizens, even as a person who performs. So I really don't think we should set up a story about the department in that way. The story of department is the following – when you personnel base, which should be the backbone of the successful management of every public enterprise, including private enterprises, but here we are talking about state institutions, and in other words, tomorrow about public enterprises, if you're taking part in the staff base, and you're moaning your useless parasitic personnel, when I say my own, I don't mean at all to DS, I'm talking about all parties in general, if this is the concept of departisation in which the carrier is supposed to be independent, and of course proposed and recognized as a good fit by some party, mostly those who are in power, which I guess is normal and natural, I don't know what it is controversial and I didn't understand where it is otherwise done, and then surround it with people who are party staff, mostly, who need to serve to fill in places and to be rewarded for party work, which is also understood in a foreign system, then come to see the worst part. You then create an obstruction of those people who should be the bearers of work, independence in work and one credibility that would have a broader dimension than that of purely political and party. As for Mrs. Tabakovic, I don't want to be a wooden lawyer or a lawyer to anyone, it's a woman who has so much political and moral integrity that I'm even a little embarrassed to stand in her defense, but I have to say that it was a woman who did it, as you see from the biography, in the real sector for a very long time. She's not an expert. She's not just an ex-Catherine. She knows that foreign and monetary policy and financial policy, what repercusions it has on business life in Serbia and besides, all businesses, not just public enterprises, not only state-owned enterprises. I think it's an extra plus, and I don't see the reason that someone disqualifies her because she was a senior party official, who is still today, as much as I was informed of resigning to the parliamentary term. I think she respected that dimension. I think Mrs. Gerov said she didn't. I realized it was. As far as the departmental story goes, and the kind of sensitivity you've shown about whether someone's relatives, whether or not someone's friends were in places that might have been interpreted as a collapsing of interest and those family ties, which we even mention in a law that we've made even more specific, I personally don't think anyone should be disqualifying the party's belongings, so no one should be disqualifying the family relationship with someone who's in political life, but if that becomes a default rule, then we have a problem. Personally, I think that we had this problem in the previous period and that there is a difficult way to root it out, so before us, in front of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a challenge and it's not a secret. I don't know what we're talking about here. Now, the problem is that Jorvanka Tabakovic is a senior SNS official, as no doubt an expert. Now I could quote as many experts as you want who have never challenged Mrs. Tabakovic's expertise, even a little downgrade her, fellow opposition colleagues, by stressing that dimension of her decency and tolerance, which is really her inherent feature. The woman is really decent and measured. It's not what's falsifying, and it's not why she's recognized as a good candidate for governor of the NBS. I have to tell you, I've been listening to this story about institutions that need to live their lives. Institutions live their lives independently of personal solutions. We have a long road ahead of us in Serbia to depersonalise institutions. Former Governor Šoštic gave the best assessment in 2010. I have to read it. He said, I must remind the citizens when Governor Jelasic resigned, as he said, allegedly for personal reasons, then Governor Soskovic, who was otherwise a member of the economic council of the Serbian prime minister, therefore, was not entirely an independent, incoherent body, an expert who appeared out of nowhere, the ex department, his expertise was recognised, and it was also not questioned here, so he said – the NBS will certainly continue to function as an institution that has a very strong professional and staff base, where procedures have been developed in function to detail. I expect that Mrs Tabakovic, and I expect with full law, as a MP and a representative of the citizens and as a party colleague, will at one point in her policy to preserve these procedures to detail, advance them with changes to the National Bank that the SNS has proposed here, where in some way she has imaginalysed this strong and intra-coastal role of governors, which I do not personally think is bad, there is a different line of arguments. I'm not a monetary expert so I could do a lot of credibility with that. My personal opinion that these are good, really good corrections. We are now on the subject - what should the NBS do about what has been talked about here enough about stability, price stability, financial stability, etc.? The only parameter we've heard here is the price of bread. I am very sorry that citizens of Serbia have been brought to the financial sector by the 12-year unscrupulous DS government, the parameters of their standard of living and price stability are the price of bread. It's not just bread, and it shouldn't be, of course, in some statistical definition, it's certainly one of the main parameters, but I'm very sorry that we discussed it today. I must also remind myself, as regards some experiences in the past, the first governor of the then-privileged Serbian bank was Mr. Spasic, who was otherwise a minister without a portfolio. So, professional people who are always candidates for the highest public functions, there's no need to be marginalized because of their party membership, and I think that's a completely groundless story. I would not continue to praise Mrs. Jorgenka, I think she has a serious and long job waiting for her, under the glass of the public and under the glass, which is the most beautiful of all, this Parliament and all of us sitting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1193	The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1194	Dear People's MPs, I once again confirm what colleagues from the DS parliamentary group have already said, that we do not doubt the quality of Ms. Jorgenka Tabakovic. We have no doubt that she'll do the job of the governor in a pedantic and best way. What is being asked here as a principled question is – were there really no other candidate in Serbia, or among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who has the same competence as Mrs. Jorgenka, and is not a senior party official, to be proposed as governor of the NBS? There we cannot forget what we were doing two days ago - a proposal for yesterday's closest party co-worker for the governor on the one hand and on the other, amendments and additions to the NBS Act, which went directly to reducing the independence of an institution such as the NBS. It's all something we have to point out. Despite the fact that we will not vote for the proposed candidate for governor, I must say that we worked hard, with 30 amendments, two days ago to fix the NBS Act, precisely because we wanted to preserve the independence of the institution and the integrity of the institution, but at the same time, to preserve the clearly defined role of governor and thus preserve the authority of that function. Unfortunately, without understanding our proposals, without being prepared to hear what international financial institutions and monetary institutions are pointing to, a law has been passed. What's waiting for us these days? We are awaiting a complete shift of full management of the NBS, without any continuity in the work. I'm not a fan of the fact that if someone left, without him there would be a flood or a ruin of the world. Believe me, I'm not even a fan of that, if that person doesn't come, that the same will be the flood of the world. I believe that instead of independent experts in the coming period, we will get party candidates and vice-governments, I am also afraid for the members of the Council, and it is particularly interesting to be the director of the Bank Supervisory Authority, which we very much look forward to seeing what was the point of what was being done, which is the two-state in the NBS. Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic, we want all the happiness in her work, because she will really, with this definition and positioning and with these amendments to the NBS Act, need her. Because, in addition to one very responsible job, he will also have to take care of the harmonisation of coalition interests that will be presented through its vice governors, while at the same time leading the battle with another governor, that is, the Director of the Supervisory Authority. That two-state in the NBS was led to absurdity. I don't care at all if I say the governor will talk to her neighboring colleague and if it is questioned by the supervision of the banks, she'll have to fence up and finish the conversation. This majority in law has made it impossible to conduct discussions and exchange experiences, as this can only be done through and in this way by newly formed administrations, the Supervisory Authority. In addition to having a growing presence of party personnel, no one here degrades, and in the end, we all go from ourselves and we should be worthy of this public scene and each of us has its own integrity, and if we don't appreciate ourselves, we can't appreciate others, but what worries is that some functions don't suffer, that party functions are performed, and one of these are all independent institutions, and that should be, not just citizens' protectors, but also the governor of the NBS. In addition to being divided into parties, we will have a concentration in some areas, for example, in monetary policy areas, in the areas of financial flows, and we fear that only one man or one party will decide on everything. The National Assembly, of course, is promised control on all its mouths, and will be left with only formal consent to the status, which also affects the independence of the NBS, and does not contribute to the key exercise of control. Our opposition is smaller, normal and easy to outvote us, but the irony of addressing the opposition and the overvote that is happening here will certainly not be the manner that will accept the World Bank and the IMF in further negotiations. Therefore, because of Serbia's citizens, some things in the work should change due to Serbia's well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1195	National MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1196	I thank Mr. President, fellow Members of the People, I think that much has been said by the opposition about this regime in the previous days when amendments and amendments to the law have been made, about the amendments to the law itself and about the changes being made by the NBS, so that we can really talk with great difficulty about everything that is being prepared for the citizens of Serbia without repeating ourselves in relation to the previous day. No matter what, I think our duty is here, to first of all point to the citizens one thing that's trying to do, especially today. He constantly insists on strengthening the control function of the National Assembly. The control function of the National Assembly has not been established in any new way or in any additional way. The National Assembly has the right to elect more officials than before or to vote against certain candidates. That you gentlemen from the regime have established, I repeat, a stronger, more professional, more powerful Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that it understands and maintains you. So you do not have to keep telling Serbian citizens that the control mechanism of the National Assembly is being strengthened. It's not a stronger control mechanism. Just as you could have asked Mrs. Tabakovic to be governor, you could have left her to choose the vice governors and tell her, you choose the council members, not the Assembly. It would have the same effect. Since it's all about absolute, and unfortunately, party placements. What's for sure is that we're re-conversing on the terms of the department, but I remind you that we're not the ones who imposed that topic. Your coalition partners, who are unfortunately SNS, are the pillar of your regime, not you. First of all, I mean G17, i.e. The URS, but I'm also thinking of Mr. Palm who explained yesterday that it's a story in the election campaign, that that's not true. I also remind you that now it is really unnecessary to repeat and try multiple times both by the MPs from the URS, and by the MPs from the SNS, to explain that it is no sin to be a member of the party and to come to some function. Nobody slows it down. We remind you of what you promised the citizens. We thought your first law was going to be a law on detachment. We thought you'd do the first thing you'd do, that people who are on a party membership card, even from DS, would be the first to put them away and call a contest. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia. You're putting a high-ranking SNS officer in the seat of the governor of the NBS. For the first time in our recent history, let it be recorded that this regime has done so. And now so you don't get up and talk again - you're talking bad about Jorgenka Tabakovic. I don't speak at all personally. Mrs Tabakovic has shown a high level of expertise and integrity in this Assembly and in other places where she worked, she has never been as radical as you, has never been as sharp as you. She always knew she was listening to her opponents, political opponents, and she always knew how to say a constructive word. But for the sake of Serbian citizens, let it be known and written that after all people and after Joseph Broz Tito and Slobodan Milosevic and all others, we bring the first time a man who is a party official. First time and that's a fact. You can talk all you want now that she's an expert. The people who were in her position, her predecessors, did not slow down Mrs Tabakovic's expertise, let me say this, they began their career as doctors of science. That's their first item. At Mrs Tabakovic's, that's the last item. It's a big difference that speaks of what, how, who, and how you put it. What's certain is that we are not defending former Governor Shoskovic. I repeat it several times, but it is not worth it, I know that it is not worth saying to you, what is the fact that Mr. Šoškić was not the governor, as you well know, Prime Minister Dacic reminded us all of us together, with whom we were delighted. The fact is, we didn't like him, and we didn't like him, he talks enough about his independence. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I remind you of what I said last time, if our predictions are met that for the Vice Governor, members of the Council, you'll be putting party people on a party cake, we'll remind the citizens of Serbia of everything we've told you. Be sure of that. It is a newspaper, and you can't deny it. It's a newspaper, gentlemen. What do we do now? We're talking about principles and we think that your principle, which you're introducing now, is harmful, that it's bad. You didn't convince us that it wasn't, you didn't convince the citizens, you didn't convince the IMF, you didn't convince the World Bank, but you convinced each other in a coalition deal. Now, with all due respect, the biggest party in the current regime will have a big problem. You'll have, gentlemen, the headache we've had. The same head you're getting now, and Mrs. Tabakovic. The first problem will be the director of the G17 control board. Then what are you going to do? Then you will say, "What did you do?" Same thing. We've got people who and how well they know how to make a deficit. You've got people who know well through their channels to point money where they want to. That's what scares us, and I know it scares the SNS. Because I know there's a lot of integrity among you. You'll never admit it, but we know, and we understand you. Therefore, what is certain is that the director of the Board of Control will largely try to put in the governor's pocket. You know that well. Now I remember, when I see the smiles on your faces, how we laughed at you. Do you think it's something that's returned well to us? That is why I warn you, for I know how difficult it is for you to find your staff, with which you find it difficult to find people who are skilled. Don't smile, it's unnecessary. It's a serious business, serious things in front of Serbia. Someone who's been pumping people here, citizens, that the governor, that he's taking a course, that he cares about how citizens live, so that the state, the government, has to replace the Aviation Control Agency, today, says Mrs. Tabakovic. It's a stock company. The government can't do that. Some basic concepts, I understand that you're new, but you still need to be more up-to-date when you're already making such statements and making a mistake with the citizens. Therefore, we believe, not by entering Mrs Tabakovic's biography, that this is, unfortunately, a party position, that this is something that is causing suspicion, that this is, unfortunately, something that is contrary to the EU's externalities, and the World Bank, and the IMF, and that you will surely change the law that you passed the other day, you will surely return to the positions of the National Bank's independence, not because you listen to us, but because you will be pressured by your new Western partners. That's what a real problem is. It is also a problem of the SNS, let me tell you, as a citizen, which now you must explain to the citizens that from today all the money flows, all the finance, all the economic issues are held by the URS, and that Mrs Tabakovic is from the position of the governor defending citizens from one group of people, from one party, who and how well she knows that she is doing these things. Trust us for a word. It won't be easy. You'll have our support in that explanation, because it's in the interest of the citizens. Whenever something is in the interest of the citizens, you will have our support. Besides, there are numbers that prove who Serbian citizens voted for. When we speak to you from the DS, at least we understand each other well. Allow a third person to rub their eyes on the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1197	Replica, president of the URS parliamentary group. Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1198	It seems that the obsession with the URS doesn't stop, so you're fascinated by us, I don't know what you're afraid of, and I'm calling you on, come on, come on, tell us who that director of the financial institution control board is, so let's discuss it today. Today's topic is the selection of governors of the National Bank, the rest of the personnel solutions are not in the hints, but here I call you, let us know about them. As for financial flows, money management, you've been managing all the financial flows in the country for the last six years. In those six years, you have made an unprecedented deficit, you have charged the country for more than five billion and I will remind you as well as during the debate on the law, Mladjan Dinkic personally led the finance ministry at the end of 2006 and left two billion euros of surplus in the budget. After six years, you've led that portfolio and left the country in debt with a record deficit with record unemployment, with a record country's debt, and don't talk about it anymore, and don't replace the thesis and do what you're doing. Go ahead and inform me and the Serbian Parliament and citizens who is the new director of the financial institutions control board. Let's hear it, open it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1199	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1200	No intention of really insulting anyone, but with the intention of introducing psychicism into our assembly, I am looking into your eyes again, and I claim that the Director of the Supervisory Board will be the man from your party. And what it's called, that's what you're going to tell us. As you're going to tell us, I assume, in what way you made the deficit in 2006 and 2007, when the "Mobtel" was sold, which increased the salaries of civil servants by more than 30% in that year. Unresponsible and discretionary spending of the NIP budget. Mr. Ilic, where you are in all of Vojvodina from which I come made a single rash in Somboro, but you have therefore had 55 billion dinars. During that time, the Ministry of Agriculture had 20 billion. You have increased the country's deficit by more than 30 billion dinars per year or about 1% of GDP by the fiscal decentralisation law. Now, that's what you've been doing. And you know it. And what we did with you in that government, as they say to the former regime, we did what they're now preparing to do, and that's suffering. To endure and learn how to assess and how money goes through the storms set by the URS. And that's what you're gonna do. And that's true. And all Serbian citizens know it, they certainly didn't vote for a government like this. Sure. And only when it comes to decentralisation, the regionalization you promise, when you make 12 regions of the Regional, 12 regional governments, wonders. So what do you want to talk about the deficit? Well, this country won't get away with your deficit moves and the moves you've made for 20 years. You pushed money through the NIP into Loznica, you pushed where you were in power... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... For the entire province of Vojvodina, nearly two million inhabitants have made one rash in Somboro. And now you're giving us a lecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1201	Mr. Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1202	You just confessed now, in front of everyone, that you had an incompetent government. Is it possible that such a small partner that you're humiliating, underestimating, trying to destroy for 10 years, manages to cause you such problems? Apparently, that's what he's saying, first of all, about your incompetence. We have a coalition agreement with our partners, you'll have a chance to see. Do not engage in speculation, predictions, parapsychological phenomena, to announce something that no one knows about. I don't know, today's discussion about the governor's election has come down to whether she's a party official or not. No one has challenged her expertise and to tell you one thing, the simplest thing is to assess the work of the governor. For many officials in this country, it is difficult to define how successful they are in their work and how not. With the governor, it's a very clear matter. You have parameters on a daily basis where you can see the best picture of the work of governors and the National Bank. The National Bank is not just a governor, there are hundreds of professionals, serious people, experts who run that institution. The rate, the level of interest rates, the level of foreign reserves, the level of prices in the first place are clear indicators of how successful or unsuccessful a governor is. Give a chance to the new governor to show that in these four parameters she will be at the height of the task, and together we will judge her work. We also do not give her unreserved support, of course we will criticise the work of the future governor, unless these key four parameters are in the role of Serbia's overall policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1203	Thank you. Our next reported MP is Bratislava Gasic, so you are Mr. Bozovic after that. Mr. Gasic wasn't in the O.R., he was before Mr. Stefanovic, but he went back to the O.R., so I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are losing again all day in this story, not on the subject, which is today the election of Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank. It's simple, we also suffer today from Mrs. Yelena Trivan to give us sermons on political manners, about how we attack, how we are not politically cultural to communicate with them. You've had the opportunity of gentlemen of the former regime to show us everything you've been telling us for the past six years. No one's ever been there for you. You won't admit to yourself that your great boss, all positions before the governor, had been placed personally by him. Now the problem is one professional person, one person that we all agree here today deserves a place. Please stop with these long discussions. Let us work, and you criticize. It's your right as an opposition. As you heard from my colleague Babic yesterday, and your former MP Srdjan, "It's hard ten years to be an opposition first, it'll be easier for you after." Let us work, because 26 hours out of 24 hours certain people work. Thank you for taking care of the SNS, and how we're going to end up with our coalition partners. Thank you for worrying about whether the SNS has or has no professional people. We showed you that there is. Now, please, if you say you're going to support all the legal decisions, let's stop this marathon discussion and start working. What the international institutions are going to force us to do, as you said to Mr. Stefanovic, is to correct what you did wrong in the previous period. So please, let us choose the right person as governor. You have heard that the resignation of the People's MP has been resigned, you will hear after that and Mrs Tabakovic, which is normal, should be elected first and answer your questions today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1205	Next reported, Mr. Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1206	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's election by Jorgovanka Tabakovic is just a summary of the two-week government, not the Ivica Dacic, but Mladjan Dinkic. We could have in this period after choosing everything to hope for, but we didn't expect that in such a brutal way you would seize power and power. I wouldn't really, and I'm honest with you, I wouldn't want this government to just be remembered for it. The choice of governors with this NBS law is completely pointless. I don't know if we should choose the governor at all. The governor, next to the Director of Finance Control, is a second-rate and secondary function. Jorgenka Tabakovic here will be only an exponent of Mladjan Dinkic and nothing more than that. After today's vote for the NBs fuverner, all fiscal and monetary policy will be in the hands of Mladjan Dinkic. This means that one man in Serbia will control all the money, which has never happened in this country's history. Why did the SNS empower Mladjan Dinkic to take care of all the salaries, all the pensions, the course of the dinar. about the country's economy, about the future of some younger generations in Serbia. That's a question I hope one day we'll get an answer. I sincerely feel sorry for Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, I can see she's not in the O.R. and I totally understand her for that. I am sorry that she is a victim of relations in a new coalition between the Serbian Progressive Party and G17+. She will, unfortunately, be an accomplice to the show where the primary goal is to put Mladjan Dinkic's paws on our country's foreign reserve. As a future governor... (President: Just please, Mr. Bozovic, use the terms anyway. The term "whispers" doesn't seem to be used in the National Assembly. ) It is not appropriate for Mladjan Dinkic, if you put it this way, the President of the Assembly, the term "Fist", but as future Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic will ask a little less than those who will absolutely ask nothing. As my colleague Borislav Stefanovic said earlier, we have been telling you for the second week and you cannot take us seriously – you must learn from our mistakes. We paid the price in the election because of Mladjan Dinkic and those like him. As you know, we have tried to put his policy, which is devastating by Serbia's economy, on the way. As you know, Mirko Cvetkovic was the prime minister who relieved him of the ministerial functions, which the people would say – he threw him out of that government, but you defied our intentions by giving him unremembered power. It is not the worst thing today that Mrs Tabakovic, with what kind of CV, biography, will not speak well and will not perform the function of Governor BS, is not the worst thing that is not qualified God knows how much for such a function. The worst is that all power and power have been handed over to Mladjan Dinkic and experts who have destroyed both the economy and Serbia's health system since 2000. The worst part is that you have divided an independent, rarely independent institution brutally as a party prey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1207	Right on the line, Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1208	I'll speak to the SNS. I believe you understand that they are offering to you in the coalition. As far as that goes, it's obvious that DS gentlemen have a problem being the opposition. That's hard, you understand them better. We're ready to take our place, if you're willing to accept them. Thank you, gentlemen of the DS, for giving us so much importance. We're a small party, insignificant, as you say, it's not our fault we have the power you're talking about. Of course, that's total nonsense. You are a young colleague, 12 or 13 times mentioned the name of Mladjan Dinkic. It's no longer an obsession, it's a complete fascination. I believe he's your idol and role model, as long as you talk so much about him. You're acting like a leftover girl or a boyfriend. So envious, so jealous, so angry, totally unreasonable. We were your partners, your correct partners. We supported President Tadic unconditionally in the second round. We haven't done anything ugly to you for a moment. You have expelled Mladjan Dinkic from the government, and if he spoke to you – the current government is the consequence of exactly what he warned you of. You have an incompetent prime minister who didn't run the government. The prime minister must be a political figure. Now you've shown your weakness. I don't mind, keep fighting. They'll probably take you to the government. As far as we're concerned, we're ready to be in your shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1209	Mrs Nada Kolundji on behalf of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1210	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think anyone should worry about whether DS can or knows what it's like to be an opposition. The DS has been a major part of the opposition since it renewed its work. Just to remind you, it's not true that DS has been, for the past six years, so it's always trying to falsify data to present something that isn't true. What worries us is why the debate is taking place this way. Because the way the new ruling majority refers to a very important independent and independent institution is the wrong way with terribly difficult consequences. That is why we insist that those who want to do this, try to understand why it is not the same when the parliamentary group, as a political party representative, proposes someone at the head of an independent institution, is not the same as when it is a party official. I can't believe it's so hard to understand. The law is clear, that is why he said – he cannot be a party official, and the fact that a political party is proposing someone, if he is not a party official and if he is not a party party member, he is indeed an expert, he cannot be attributed to being a member of that party. That's what this is about. In the past, we have never, no matter what you attribute to us, violated that basic democratic rule. So that we are fascinated and that – whoever does not know to be an opposition, best says one who has never been an opposition and has constantly crossed from whom he wants to be on track and has always been in power. I think they're afraid to be the opposition first, we don't have a problem with that. As an opposition, we have a responsibility to warn you that the consequences will be terrible and will be paid by all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1211	Thank you. Mrs. Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1212	Ladies and gentlemen, in a few minutes I will try to make a contribution to my discussion by interpreting the context of the debate, which today, at the end of the debate, we are choosing the governor, or Governor of the NBS, Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The context is through three chances held by the ruling majority, which the government of the Republic of Serbia and all those who consider themselves the decision-makers of future days, months and years in Serbia. This context is three chances, two of which are missed, and I hope that the third, which I will mention, will not be missed, because it is not good for the ruling majority or for Serbia, nor for the rule of law in which I am absolutely sure, we all want to participate together. The first chance you've missed is when you look into the NBS Act, and you can see there's no way to legally be resolved by Governor Dejan Šoštic. That chance shouldn't have been missed. It's the rule of law. I understand why that chance was missed. The sweets of electoral victories are capable of, whatever these election victories are, rather narrowing down the aspect of which, all those who wish to govern Serbia, have the obligation to be the widest possible aspect. Because. Under the law in force, the governor of the National Bank of Dejan Soskic could not be removed or released, so a decision was made to amend and supplement the law. Then we come up with another missed chance. When that law entered the National Assembly and entered the debate, the MPs, discussing it, tried to justify that what you can't under one law can be done by passing another law. Then Governor Dejan Soskic resigned. He created a second chance for the ruling majority and for all those who believe it is only in their hands to make decisions on months, days and years ahead of Serbia. This opportunity was to withdraw this law and such a law from the procedure, to elect a new governor and to legally introduce amendments and additions to the NBS Act and that opportunity has been missed. It's the rule of law, not missing out on chances. We have a third chance ahead of us, a chance presented before the candidate for governor of the NBS, Jorganko Tabakovic. Don't miss that chance. Do not miss a session with the current topic and give an opportunity to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, give the citizens of Serbia the opportunity to conduct a business debate during these three hours on what the future governor is intending to do in an institution in which we will send her to take care of monetary policy and to worry about bank control. That chance is right in front of you today. If you miss that chance and this session ends with a vote on the new governor and only her speech, there is no more chance through which we will be able to prove that we are truly committed to the rule of law. Then we'll really have to do it all over again, with the hope that there is a genuine commitment to the rule of law here and that we'll have a chance for a session whenever it's scheduled, whenever the governor is ready to discuss her vision of the National Bank's work for three hours, the problems. It's the only thing left to share with you, the hope that, indeed, we share the will for the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1213	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. All I'm informing you is that your group's remaining time is 13 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1214	More than enough. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government has started its mandate with controversial laws and ministries and the Government Act, trying to replace civil servants without any criteria and with discretionary powers that have tried to introduce the law, in violation of all the positive regulations governing such matter. On the other hand, this government has put under control the country's independent institution. The ministry has been formed in such a way that I am not even sure today whether anyone actually knows who the minister is in charge of building which highway. Today it is on the agenda, after amending the NBS Act, which represented a logical introduction to what we're talking about today, the election of a new governor. Today we are talking about an extremely important topic for our country. I'm not sure that representatives of the ruling coalition are aware of the atmosphere that was created both in the domestic and foreign public. In fact, you managed to create a consensus on both foreign and domestic professionals within a few days of managing Serbia and taking responsibility. We've become world news, ladies and gentlemen, the moves of the new government are being transmitted by world agencies, because of them are being reacted by international institutions. These days, news from Serbia and this time, I quote, has increased doubts about the commitment to European integration, as reported by Reuters, a step backwards, according to the European Commission, a weakening of the National Bank's independence, according to the IMF these days. Today, the world media are reporting that amendments to the National Bank Act and the election of governors of the National Bank move that will certainly shake potential investors in Serbia, whose stability is the country and whose security, which stems from the independence of the National Bank, are crucial. On the other hand, much more important than that is the uncertainty and justifiable anxiety that Serbian citizens feel. Citizens remember very well the '90s monetary sunflower, hyper inflation, money printing, loss of savings, which literally affected people's lives. Today they are facing attempts by the state to hold foreign reserves and savings deposits for citizens. With its proposals, the government has brought unrest among potential investors, unrest among international factors and, I repeat, what I consider to be the most important unrest, unrest among Serbian citizens, who are already in such a fragile economy, which is further shaken by the global economic crisis, stability and elemental economic security, something that is most important. Every discussion of personal issues requires that we look at it from several angles. One represents expertise, the other represents politics and the way in which a person, elected for a particular function, will perform that function. I am not an economist, and I cannot talk about Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic's expertise, but as a national MP representing Serbian citizens and citizens who voted for our policy, I have to ask a few questions. One of the main pillars of this government, we've heard it in the exposé, we've heard it in all the discussions before this government was formed, is the expertise in front of politics, which in the last months has become something called the department. In the biography of our distinguished colleague, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, it does not say anywhere that she is head of the SNS parliamentary group in Serbia, that she is SNS Vice President. I ask the question, is this a department that was spoken out loud throughout the campaign by one of the leaders of the ruling coalition, Mr Dinkic? Do we actually, by leaving out the important facts from the biography, we're getting a detached governor today? Did Serbian citizens vote for such a thing? Your theme is departmentalization, ladies and gentlemen of the U.S.S., and don't be angry with the DS. Our theme has always been system reforms, the modernisation of the country and the best people who can do this important job, whether or not they are members of a particular political party, because such a thing must not be the basis for discrimination, either positively or negatively. Honestly, your topic and your concept of departmentation, I have a pretty big problem to understand. Does she mean departmentalized highway ministers, or does she mean today a departisan candidate for governor, or do you think, on the other hand, that the fact that I often, I must admit, and very persistently mention it, doing everything contrary to what you've advocated? Do you think the citizens of Serbia are forgetting so quickly that every attempt to change perception can work? You've been in power, gentlemen, for the past 12 years, and you've been the creator of her economic and financial policy during the campaign, and we've been witnessing today very skillfully and persistently trying to change it. Today, instead of focusing on solving citizens' problems, you are trying to introduce this government to a completely new one, although it has most of the ministers from the previous government, this time with SNS representatives. I think it is important that colleagues from the U.S.S. cease to deceive citizens with the thesis that, as it turns out, you were not involved in anything, that you had neither created nor voted for the moves of the previous governments, that you did not even implement the policy of the previous governments. To me, it is sincere for the moments and fun attempt by your party's leader, Mladjan Dinkic, to present himself as a new factor in Serbia's political scene, which is yet to be proved. I think there is, on the other hand, an elemental problem with logic that you're trying to present as a new politician, unless you might be leading the thesis that he was the president of the G17 Plus party yesterday, and that today is actually the president of the URS. We should put the party aside, because this is a serious job and a serious subject to be dealt with by serious people. This government is the government of change. This is government change up. This is the government of interest, the government of vague politics, the government of a uncertain future. The Democratic Party has indeed made compromises. Did she have any mistakes? I'm sure of it. What on the other hand is absolutely certain is that we had a clear policy, a clear goal ahead of us that we never give up on. I think the citizens of Serbia recognize that, but on the other hand, I'm sure they don't recognize your policy, the government's strategy, and that's due to the serious anxiety that Serbian citizens feel today. They've had enough fighting, they've had enough accusing political opponents instead of looking for a solution. They expect only results from you. The future governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorgovanki Tabakovic, I sincerely wish a lot of happiness in the work. She absolutely deserves the chance that any reasonable doubt that has been raised here today in the discussion, disproves, on the one hand, the independence of the institution to which she is headed, and on the other hand, the monetary stability of our country. Be assured that DS MPs will be very closely monitoring your work, that we will respond to any attempt to turn away from the European path, to any attempt to bring down the institutions for which we have fought to establish them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1215	Thank you. The right to replica has Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1216	I'm sorry I have to answer the line so many times. I really ask you, from the SNS, take them to the government. I don't see a solution. Obviously, there's something here on the scene that's clear to everyone, and I hope to the citizens, it's called a fight, so rule. They found, in their opinion, some weak spot. Here, we're the weak spot. They want to confront us with our partners. They have the right to do that. So we don't waste any time, invite them to the government, please. I have to tell you, if anyone else were to declare both the governor and this law on the election of governors, the National Bank Act, it would be okay. Your discussions are more or less okay. There have been serious discussions. I also remember Mr. Micunovic's discussion, Petrovic. And you, Mr. Stefanovic, have discussed well, well done, but you really have no moral right because of something you did in 2003. I'll remind you and the public, you've chosen in this same governor's assembly by falsifying the people's will with 125 votes. In this same assembly, your MPs voted from Bodrum. Do you remember that? It doesn't give you the right to give someone moral sermons and to qualify whether someone is able to be in government or not, to guess if they're going to be governor. As far as the department is concerned, I'll tell you one more time, so I'm calling you and the public in every election and positioning in the finance and economy ministries and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, that you publicly criticise every position unless it's professional and consistent with what we talked about in the campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1217	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1218	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our discussion absolutely does not apply to the morale of anyone, nor to the one we recognize here as the creator of manuscripts related to the way the governor is replaced and brings in the new governor. As one whose handwriting we recognize and intend to establish a two-alignment in the National Bank of Serbia and we only warn that it is dangerous from the point of view of what the National Bank of Serbia should do in accordance with the law and interests of Serbian citizens. So we don't hold anyone's moral sermons or we're fascinated with anyone and anything, here we're talking about the consequences of what can happen because of the way this is done, because of the timing of how it's done and at the same time completely, ignoring what's essential, it remains a deep misunderstanding. The essence of independent institutions is that they act legally and in practice as independent of the executive government as possible, that they can be directly subordinated to the interests of Serbian citizens, not to the interests of the executive government, which often has a different view of what is in the best interest, what is popular, and what is really in the best interest. I really think it's completely inappropriate to take it down to some kind of moral sermon right now. I don't think anyone here should talk. I think that's what the citizens of Serbia are judging about, and if that morale goes beyond the law, then I deeply believe that they will judge the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1219	Thank you. At this point, I'm setting a break until 4:00. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The next registered speaker is Mrs. Gorica Mojovic. You gave up? Thank you. Mr. Predrag Markovic, giving up. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word or anyone else who has failed to exercise his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Kolundjia. You have two minutes as head of the Parliament Club and seven minutes, the time that belongs to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1221	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Our intention is not to prevent the parliamentary majority from doing what it is intended to do. It is our obligation to point out all the dangers that decisions made this way can have consequences for the citizens of Serbia and that is what we wanted to do. Except, of course, that the reactions of all relevant international institutions have arrived, which will certainly have the effect that all those I believe and this parliamentary majority want to co-operate, and ultimately, will have to co-operate, that they will all face a huge reserve that will come from the same world towards moves that have been made these days in Serbia. They will face not only the reserve, but also an increase in the risk to which they will first respond to capital. We are all aware that without foreign investment, Serbia does not have a serious development chance. Foreign investment will not come to a country where decisions are made by jeopardising the independence of one of the most important institutions in the most harsh way, which is the National Bank. We are sure that the EU will also show not only a reserve to this majority, which declares it wants to join the EU, but rather I think that Serbia's progress will be significantly slowed down precisely because of decisions like this. The consequences of what's happening these days are already visible. The risk premium for Serbia in the last three weeks has jumped by two percentage points compared to countries in the region, and all reactions show it has direct ties to what is happening with the NBS and the way this institution's independence is being violated. The responsibility is taken by those who will vote for such a decision today, as well as by the decision to change the law in the way it has changed. However, the candidate for governor also assumes responsibility, and I believe, soon, the governor. But what is the most serious thing is that the risk falls on all citizens of Serbia. So for this decision, which some may be without a big dilemma and without a big question whether it is right or not to vote, what is very important is that citizens need to know that the consequences of that decision will be made. I sincerely hope, as far as DS is concerned, we want the new governor to succeed in the work, because it's the interest of everyone. The way she came to that place neither to her nor to the citizens of Serbia does not guarantee that it will be so, unfortunately. That's why we tried to warn and say -- you have a majority, you have no reason to break things over your knees, you have no reason to send a message that will scare both the world and the citizens of this country. You have a legal, constitutional way of doing your political will without jeopardizing the future of this country and all its citizens. The way you've done it so far, you're seriously jeopardizing that future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1222	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I will use time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I don't think the MPs belonging to the former regime said anything new at this debate when choosing candidates for governor of the National Bank. These are the stories we heard when the amendments were made and the addition of the National Bank Act. What prevails is that we're supposed to drive Serbia into some kind of disaster, the end of the world, that we're a step back. These are similar terms that we heard back a few months ago and during the campaign for the Republic elections, during the election campaign for the President of the Republic, for the second round and for everything that could have occurred to someone, for everything that was happening in the country blames the opposition at the time. Serbia's credit rating is dropping, but not because of a new coalition, but because of the results of the previous regime. Today we live in Serbia which has negative gross income, i.e. in the first six months by 0.6% has been reduced. It was projected, I think, 1 or 1.5%, which is a greater difference for index denomination. No one can blame the new ruling majority for that. Also, the second reason is this very leap of the euro, because Serbia has often been in debt among domestic banks, which are mostly foreign banks' daughters and on the international financial market with a foreign exchange clause, i.e. foreign loans. In principle, we have already mentioned one security loan, which has already been spent, worth 700m euros. Or, at that time, it was about a billion dollars. Today, because of the recklessness of those who took the risk, the credit is far higher, only in the amount of the euro -- a dollar, as the euro slipped by about 8% compared to the dollar, plus the foreign exchange risk due to the euro's rise from the dinar. It certainly enters the budget deficit and the total public debt. We tried multiple times through various discussions and debates to point out that only on this one loan for every dinar that falls against the euro, this country owes 700 million new dinars. From the moment we adopted the budget, the December 2011 Budget Act, to the day of today's euro, has jumped by about 15 dinars. Paper and pen, 15 times 700 million, just calculate one loan. What's the point of the NBS? The purpose of the NBS is to maintain monetary policy and price stability. In monetary policy, the NBS fell. For stability the price is all due, only not her, but the reduced purchasing power of citizens, as repeatedly said, has also preserved price stability. Because of such an irresponsible policy, the outgoing governor was not allowed to stand before the MPs and defend the results of the NBS. He was invited. As we discuss the new governor, or candidate for the new governor, the story of the independence of the National Bank and the independence of the decisions made by the governor as the first man of the National Bank has often been swept away. I believe there are very few of my fellow MPs here who know the candidates for governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic, as I do. I've known her since she was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the famous Ministry of Privatisation. I know her from a period when senior government officials were appointed, I don't want to mention their names, they're not SNS, but they're not here, and neither are they to defend, they've demanded decisions that were then not in accordance with the law and in the interests of Serbian citizens. The candidate for governor, then the minister, who was then asked to resign, not only did he not agree to make such decisions because they were not in accordance with the law, not only did he not resign, but he also received an apology because he was right. The question of independence and integrity is not whether a man who is a candidate or a person, who does not resent me, who is a candidate for governor, comes from a political party or is a non-party person – whether from a university or from an economy or from banking, the integrity of a man, his independence is a personal matter. By defending his personal independence, he defends the independence of the institution he needs to lead. In her career so far, Jorganka Tabakovic has shown and proved not only on words, but also on works that she is ready to preserve the independence of the body she is leading and that he is more independent than he has ever been before. At the very least, not only do I accept that the MPs belonging to the former regime should control this government, but we from the SNS take the obligation to control the government together. This government has no right to mistakes. The responsibility of each and every one of us here is reflected in that, and even those of us who now support this government, that we first and criticise it for what it does badly. Likewise, MPs are independent of the Constitutional Court's decision. Be assured that these people sitting with me in a parliamentary bench are not such that they are able to vote for decisions that are not in the interests of Serbian citizens. Such decisions, at least in this conference, will not be made. For all things, I believe that not only does the professional value candidate for Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic have, but also has, moral values. That is why our parliamentary group will vote for a proposal for governor, Mrs. Jorganko Tabakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-06-0.u1224	I'm finishing the search. After we've done a search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion to elect the governor of the NBS in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on the agenda item of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday 6 August 2012, starting at 16.45 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. In the meantime, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the RIK on the allocation of the mandate to the MP, in order to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgets and the mandated immunity issues of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dragan Todorovic, elected from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of a MP, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dragan Todorovic. I congratulate Parliamentarian Todorovic and ask Mr Todorovic to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats the words of the oath. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "Please sign the text of the oath. I congratulate you once again and wish you good luck in your future work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 150 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2.14, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is elected by the majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I conclude the vote and declare: 131 MPs voted against, 34 against, no one was abstention, one MP was not voted by, of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal by a majority of the votes of all the MPs and has elected Dr. Jorgovanko Tabakovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Let me congratulate Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic on her choice and wish her success in her work. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of Parliament to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which and if, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without scrutiny, be made known in the day of the vote. According to that provision, we move on to a decision. National MP Sasa Milenić pointed to the violation of Article 104 at a session on 6 August 2012, at 13 hours and 25 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote, and I declare that two MPs voted for it, against 41 MPs, no abstentions, no 115 MPs, of a total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out the examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you.
