ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9232	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9233	I want to ask my question as a man who has spent his whole life in science. So I ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Zarko Obradovic, but this question is not only a question concerning the field of science, but it is something in this area that is universally present in our society that I want to point out, which is universally present. In fact, the current Ministry of Education, Science and Scientific Development adopts the rules on selecting the calling of scientists working on institutes and the current proposal for a regulation has raised the scale so high that some of these young people of scientists are asked to comply with the European criteria, and most often the conditions in which they work, I will not say African, but they are certainly not European. So, on this case, we are looking at something that is generally present in our society, that constantly from citizens, whether they are dealing with science or something else, we are asking them to meet some of the top-notch European criteria, European standards, very high standards, and the conditions in which these people work, their wages and what they get for their work most often are not at European level, but are much below that. By asking this question about my particular profession, science, I want to point out the problem that no matter what level, local, central, national or other, we are asking people to give their maximum, and we are not providing them with conditions so that they can fulfill such a thing. Finally, my specific question to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, again in the form of an application, concerns that this rules on the selection of calling be adopted with all objections sent from scientific institutes, with all the observations made by scientists, to set up a real scale. Because if we don't, I'm afraid in a few years we won't be able to create new young scientific personnel who could do their job well. There's one more thing I want to point out. This Regulation, proposed by the Ministry of Science, favours natural sciences at the expense or at the expense of social sciences. I want to say one more thing here. How important natural sciences are for our technological development, as important are social sciences that we have good sociologists today and tomorrow, good scientists in the legal field, good scientists in the economy, which perhaps this profession is the most important area to be interested in Serbia and that we should explore. Finally, I am concluding this question and allow me to conclude this question with one conclusion. We can't, again, ask people to look at some of the top European criteria, European standards, to raise the scale so high that they can't jump, and the conditions in which they live, metaphorically to express themselves -- they train, not that they're not European, but they're closer to African than European conditions. So with this question I want to point out, and it's not just about science, that people who work in factories, workers, we in our party have union representatives, work for poor wages, and they're asked to work as Japanese. For someone to work as a Japanese, they have to be paid that much and they have to provide him with working conditions so he can meet those criteria. The problem is next. This example I'm talking about, which is visible in science, is a broader example of society. We need to really put a scale on people in their workplace, evaluate them by real criteria. Because, we can't, I repeat for the third time as in some chorus, from people asking for maximum results without providing them with the conditions in which they will work and be just as maximum. Finally, at the very end of this issue, I once again ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and I believe in the well-intention of Resolute Minister Zarko Obradovic, to adopt all objections that will come from the scientific institutes on this proposal, so that today, tomorrow, we have some new young scientists who will be elected to serve their country, its interest, and not to block this whole process by putting the scale high up. The final conclusion - scale to the right extent and respect for the real conditions in which people work, whether scientists or ordinary workers are in the factory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9234	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9235	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice, Mr Selakovic. My first question is – as far as it came with the creation of the civil code of the Republic of Serbia and whether it gave up the announced introduction of so-called. Demographic fees that would be paid to mothers of three or more children until their age? For us from the SPO and the DHSS family is the basis of everything and priority in any programme, but I am not asking this question for that reason, but for a simpler one, which is that the parties that make up today the ruling majority in the pre-election campaign have promised this to the citizens and I remind them that the time has come for the promises to be fulfilled. My second question is also for the Justice Department. It reads – does the Government intend to amend the Regulation on how members of the Yugoslav Army's right to be exercised in the country of the Yugoslav Movement of June 2006, in order to finally start applying the Law on the Equality of the Rights of Partisans and Equality, which was adopted exactly eight years ago? Under the regulation, SUBNOR should designate four members of the commission to decide on recognition of the status of the People's Liberation War, which they refuse, and therefore none of the eunuchs have obtained the right to retire. Unfortunately, both the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the government of Mirko Cvetkovic were more than painful when it comes to the SPS and SUBNOR. I believe and hope that this new government will not be so painful that it will allow the law that was passed exactly eight years ago to finally be implemented into action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9236	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9237	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question was also addressed to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, and on the occasion of an open letter signed at the moment in the scientific public on the shift of state secretary and advisers to the Ministry of Education, Mr Tibor Sabo, and Mr Jovan Basic came to his post. That letter, in a clear way, indicates that the newly appointed man is simply not qualified, although he is probably nice and good, according to the letter. This last case is another one in a series that shows that all pre-election promises of department are collapsing, that the departmentalization is intensified more than it has ever been in our public. After Mr. Gavrilovic's shift, which undoubtedly puts "the official messenger" at risk, this is now one case that is even more serious, and that is why I will read part of the letter, a public letter sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic signed by Mr. Bogdan Solaja, a regular member of the Academy of Science and Arts of Serbia. He says -- most of the Serbian public with indignation received news of the replacement of Professor Tibor Sabo, assistant minister of basic research. Professor Sabo performed this function in several terms. The resolution ministers were from three different political parties: DS, DSS and SPS and all had a very good opinion on his work. More important than that, about the workprof. Saboa's positive court also gave the scientific public of Serbia. With his work largely contributed to the significant progress of Serbian science, which this year was coronated and included the University of Belgrade on the list of 500 best universities in the world, the goal that has sought for years. With this kind of assessment of the work of professors. Saboa is also agreed by representatives of all parent committees for different fields of science in Serbia, which also confirmed by a letter of support sent to top state officials to prevent the destruction of the ministry's human potential in the post-election period. The government has deafened these initiatives and the ministry has deafened, as the letter says narrow party interests that can bring irreparable damage to Serbian science. Yesterday, the elected assistant minister of basic research and development of scientific and research staff has already been in the post since 1997-2000. That the best proof of the difference in qualifications of these two candidates is one table which is also attached to this material, which speaks of the number of citations and scientific papers each of them has achieved. Mr. Tibor has 70 scientific papers, a new candidate has three. Mr. Tibor was quoted 580 times, and Mr. Newly appointed once. Mr. Tibor, his papers have been re-quoted 380 times, and Mr. Newly Set Zero. Everything else is zero, zero, zero, and Mr. Tibor has 579, 360 and 14, so I don't quote everything now, because whoever wants to get this table can get it. So, a science development adviser in Serbia has been appointed professor. Faculty of Teachership from Leposavic, which is without work in scientific journals and without positive experience in managing and organising scientific and research work in fundamental research. So we had one unquestionably positive result through the university's arrival on the Shanghai list among the 500 best universities in the world. This is now being questioned. I have to say that behind this, since this decision is of course political and above all. It's politics, and one of the questions that I've been asked, that's one comment I've heard, that's – it's not going to go back to the time when all the qualified Tibori will be replaced by unskilled Johns? This is a serious political problem in which the issue of minorities cannot be avoided. One more thing, we could hardly wait and followed very discreetly the fact that we have achieved a better result from the export of software than from the export of raspberries. So knowledge is better sold than what is produced in another way. Please, and ask the Ministry of Education, what will they do about an open letter coming from the scientific public and signed by an academic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9238	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9239	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I have one question that I have been thinking about asking who to ask. In consultation with my colleagues, I came to the conclusion that I should appoint Mr. Veljak Odalovic, Secretary General of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? I want to know the answer to the next question. Folkly speaking, who maintains cleanliness and hygiene in the government building of the Republic of Serbia? Are these constantly employed workers and workers who we know are paid in all government services, or is there a company on the side? If the company is engaged on the side, the MPs of the NS, and I think the public, we would like to know, in the days when we are talking about the Public Procurement Act which is the best thing, which so far seems to me, offered to this assembly to prevent corruption and savings, because it is the money of Serbian citizens. So, when there was a tender that the companies applied for, and which firm she got, if she got a job maintaining hygiene and cleanliness in the government building of the Republic of Serbia. I want to know, and I mean the public, which is the company, who owns the firm, and when is this tender called, and since when is this company actually working, if a company on the side? So, if that is possible, and I mean from our cooperation, I mean the NS Parliament Club, while Mr. Veljko Odalovic was the Secretary General of the National Assembly, we had excellent cooperation and his maximum correct behaviour towards NS MPs and the MP club. We expect it to happen this time and we'll get an exhaustive answer to these questions that I've asked. I also have a second question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since we read the information this morning that the police union today will organise a peaceful protest or some kind of strike, with a demand to improve their working conditions, and above all in equipment that would protect their lives while doing their job that we know is how risky and life-threatening. So, I'm asking if it's possible right away, quickly and effectively to find some means where our officers would be allowed to buy equipment that would protect their lives? Maybe I'm not professional enough not to talk about it, about vests and similar equipment, which, unfortunately, the recently dead cop didn't have. Some experts say he had this vest, so he might survive. So I don't think I should remind anyone here in the assembly, or the citizens of Serbia, under which conditions our officers work and how small they pay, almost every day they put their heads in the bag. So, I repeat the question, can I from the budget reserve or from some source engage immediately some funds and buy equipment for our police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9240	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9241	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Trade and the Prime Minister. The Centre for New Politics has so far been known as an organisation dealing with political analysts, and its president, Vladimir Todorovic, has been represented in the public, in the media as a political analyst. Since the end of the trade ministry's competition a few days ago, this organisation will deal with consumer rights and consumer counseling because it received five million dinars for this job at the mentioned competition, although it is registered only two days before the competition's end, the deadline for the competition. In fact, Todoric won five million dinars for a project called "the consumer counselling centre for the region of Belgrade" in competition, many organisations that have been engaged in consumer counselling and consumer protection for many years. The very strange circumstances of getting the funds, written by the media long before the Trade Ministry made this decision. According to the president of the Association of Banking Clients, Dejan Gavrilovic, a project for this competition, please try to calm them down, I really can't get used to it, there's no point in working this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9242	I ask my colleagues to listen to the MP in peace and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9243	It's really very hard to work like this. It really doesn't make sense. So, apart from the strange circumstances that the organisation was registered just two days before the deadline of the competition expired and even weirder circumstances that the media had written about getting the funds long before the funds were approved, the Banking Clients' Association claimed, or their President Dejan Gavrilovic, that the competition documentation had been submitted without even one tax administration confirmation and that someone from the Ministry subsequently placed these missing documents in a set of documents submitted by the New Policy Centre. According to Todorovic himself, he managed to report in two days his organisation to the Ministry of Trade, to record it there, which is a real world record in efficiency, especially our administration, which needs much more for this job. Those less capable than Mr. Todorovic mentioned, have succeeded, the Kikinda Association, in just two months to register their organization, for a month it took them to register themselves, and another month to register their organisation, as an organisation that deals with consumers in the Ministry of Trade itself. In fact, it is very extensive documentation and deadlines that are not less than 15 days. The competition has sparked a consumer organisation's revolt, which claims it is irregular and needs to be annulled. Besides this selection of the Centre for New Politics, there were other irregularities. Let's just say, after the competition was over, the conditions of the competition changed. The competition made it clear that for the region of Belgrade, an organisation that should receive funding was defined, but two organisations magically appeared, in a very strange way. It was said first that the Centre for New Politics had one more point than the Consumer Protection Centre, but on demand to see how it was scored, the President of the Consumer Protection Centre Vera Vida, suddenly the fact that both organisations have the same number of points, so the funds have been allocated in some way, which shows that only wanted to be covered up, that the competition is not regulated. My questions for the Minister of Trade, we ask that we get information about the course of the competition and, in particular, a statement on the allegations of the Association of Banking Clients, and we want to get information from the Minister of Police, is it possible that, when there is a clear definition of the Government, that they will fight corruption, this moment the Ministry of Trade is doing something that is very much like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9244	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk envoy, Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9245	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, two initiatives of journalistic independent associations appeared in public this week, and both concerned violations of human rights, where journalists' associations requested urgent response from state authorities, to the appearance of violations of human rights, but also to the Assembly to determine them. I want to ask with this today about a few questions to the government. Two days ago, NUNS addressed President Tomislav Nikolic and Ivica Dacic with a request that at least respond to the request of journalists' associations to punish and publicly condemn ultra-nationalist organisations or ultra-rightist organisations, whatever you call them. In recent weeks and months, Serbia faced very dangerous phenomena, began with black lists of actors, continued with black lists of media, NGOs, individuals from NGOs such as Ivan Weyboda, to end up with a public call for the murder of judges of both the Constitutional Court and their families if they go out on the street. For one moment, the state has not responded, we have not come to the knowledge of who the perpetrators are, who specifically from these right-wing associations referred threats, who made black lists and who would answer for them. Instead, before they went into their war against the rule of law of democracy and freedom, we had the case of Assistant Minister Kolarevic, who first wrote such a black list, and they followed him, and after that, an attempt by the minister of justice to give them clear political support, publicly defiling with the cheek which the Constitutional Court had banned, his action. With this in mind, I have two questions, when President Nikolic and Ivica Dacic will respond to a public request, not only of the NUNS, but of the entire democratic public to condemn such phenomena and when Ivica Dacic as police minister and Nikola Selakovic, as justice minister, will impose clear penalties for the conduct of ultra-rightist organisations, i.e. when the state will stand in the protection of a legal system that is obliged to respect and protect. After that, a public initiative by the Association of Journalists of Serbia asked the state to start doing something about media freedoms and protection of journalists. In the past few months, several journalists have been beaten, some of them, several times and members of their family, as correspondent B 92 in Vranje. There are no perpetrators, no convictions, no culprits, and then it's natural for you to lock the press in the O.R. in Kursumlia, simply, unless you want them to report something that's not popular, that I'm not talking about what's been doing in that same Cursumlia labour inspection, then Galactic responded to the fact that the president of the municipality sent people to forced labor, which after 1945 wasn't there, except at this time. However, these people are not only not protected, but fired, and journalists who wanted to report it are locked in the room. Please make it clear that the Assembly condemns these phenomena and that the Minister of Culture and Information informs us what will be done specifically to protect journalists and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9246	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work and move on to a unique search of the 9th item of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of MEPS OF THE SERBIA PROGRAMME COMMITTEE. You have received a proposal for a decision from the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, and this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members and the parliamentary group, which you received the details in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Before opening this unique search, I remind you that today is the last Thursday of the month, the day when MPs at a session that is under way, ask parliamentary questions to the members of the government, in time from 16:00 to 1900 hours. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 1800 hours, or 19.00 hours, because of the need to propose acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Vesna Marjanovic, president of the Committee on Culture and Information want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I will try only in the shortest lines to explain the procedure that we have reached the proposed list. As is known, the Law on Broadcasting envisioned the constitution, the election of members of the programme committee by the Serbian Parliament. The law did not provide for an authorised promoter, and then we relied on Article 203 accordingly. Rules of Procedure, which shall refer the procedure to the committee responsible. I'm saying this because the board of directors did not have the possibility of procedurally dealing with individual candidates, when it comes to those proposed by the broadcasting agency, which as an independent agency conducted the procedure. We, as a committee, have dealt with the negotiation and coordination of parliamentary groups in order to establish a proposal of seven candidates from the ranks of MPs. I would only take the opportunity to thank all MP groups. A large number or a large number of groups have made their proposals but unfortunately, of course, we couldn't have representatives of all parliamentary groups, because there are many more of them than the law predicts the number of seats in this RTS body. We have chosen, or suggested, seven MPs. I call on MPs to take part in the debate and that this is an opportunity to discuss, possibly, and the proposed candidates. They repeat only once again that the second part of the list is the one that proposes a Radio-Diffus Agency, based on the procedure provided for by their statutes, through a public competition. We on the board have given one suggestion, that in the interest of the quality of selected candidates for the programme board, it would be good for this public competition to be, to say, the more visible and the best way to address the public, so that the largest number of citizens, associations of citizens and others, who have the opportunity to propose candidates, could be familiar with this procedure and participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9248	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, the MP, Mr Vladimir Cvian, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9249	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, a colleague of Vesna Marjanovic, explained the process of our seven candidates. That is, let's say, a political part of the program council, since they are still representing the Assembly. There's nothing controversial about it, they're in the minority, the overall programming board has 19 members. What are those other 12? Those 12, by law, should represent citizens, the public, even though the programming board, and I'm saying this more because of the citizens and the public, there's no big authority. In principle, he can slightly harass the director of RTS and the board of directors, by questioning him, by giving initiatives. It is not the authority to make decisions regarding the management of RTS, the Public Service. It's important to say – you don't pay. So it's not a paid function. What are these 12 candidates, which have been established by the RRA's 19 counsel, how many were at the beginning of the procedure and we will plead with our seven colleagues? They're different candidates, they're biographies. I know there's no interest in getting into it right now, but objectively, we should talk a little bit about these biographies and the way they've been chosen, and ultimately about their proposings on this function, because we take responsibility by raising our hand for them. There were 19 of them and the RRA picked 12, and their biographies are in the material. There are also those who have graduated from college, there are those who have not graduated from college. There are those who know something about television, there are most people who know about television, at least by their biography, just by watching TV. It is even more interesting when it comes to proposing these 12, on which the Assembly will declare itself. Apparently, by law, the proposings should be expert associations, NGOs, one word professional civil sector, news associations, etc. When you look at the proposings of these 12 candidates, there's a really interesting fact that the public needs to know. For example, Nash Galli, a musician, was proposed by the Association of Musicians, jazz, entertainment, and rock music. As close as Nasha Gaul is, let's say, a close one, if not a member of the SPS and as much as possibly an SPS influence, this is kind of the most serious candidate of these 12. The man deserves to be there, because for years he's still been dealing with something that has to do with television, secondly, he's been proposed by one association that we can't blame for anything, a credible association. There's a lot of musicians who do jazz, rock music, and nothing is controversial. But when we move forward in these 11, the next candidate is proposed by the Serbian Cultural Club from Novi Sad, whatever it is. Anyway, it's got a stamp and it's signed by some co-chairman. So there are two presidents or at least two. They suggested Jasmine Lekovic. Take it and read Jasmine Lekovic's biography. The third candidate also has a stamped promoter, Marko Vukomanovic. What I'm saying is, not to offend some candidates, it's not to their expense, it's to the procedure and to the promoters. Who suggested Mark Vukomanovic, but has the seal? Association of Citizens "Lav Fest" Vrnjačka Banja. It's probably, in a way, a professional association. I don't doubt Mark Vukomanovic, I think he's a designer, but really, this is the last candidate to be proposed with a seal. There's a series of candidates who've been proposed by individuals. For example, Aleksandar Grkinic of Belgrade was suggested by a certain Milica Milicevic. He only has an address and a home number. Tanja Samplac proposed the same physical face, Tatjana Grulovic. Zoran Vujovic, a doctor, a professor with "Singidunum", had no one to suggest, but some Alexa Jokic. I know one thing, but I don't think it's him. Tanja Dojcinovic proposed the same physical face. Dragoljub Kojcic, most of us know him, has been involved in politics, has also proposed a physical face. Why didn't an organization suggest it, even if it was "Lav Fest" from Vronjska Banja or some similar or some Serbian cultural club, just not from Novi Sad, but, say, from Presevo? I don't know. Dr Zoran Avramovic also proposed a physical face, let Snezana Stojanovic. Brothers Grubačić, and he's among our candidates. I really don't want to talk about biography at this point, but in Brac Grubačić, it must simply stop and say, who doesn't remember his active role in the media preparation for the assassination of Zoran Djindjic, he has a short memory, not to mention unfortunate colleague Dada Vujasinovic, who was found dead in his apartment. He is otherwise elected with the new government and the new pro-European staff policy, as far as I know, already president of the SDPR Supervisory Board. If that's not enough for him, he wants to be on this program council, which is not paid, where the only privilege can be to see Tianic, then fine. The last two candidates I left behind as a treat, Biljana Nikolic and Katarina Ostojić, don't let anyone think they have anything to do with me or my wife, no. Who suggested them? In materials that can be found on the RRA site, they were suggested by them themselves. So, in place of the promoter for Biljana Nikolic stands – Biljana Nikolic. With this Katarina Ostojić, she proposed herself. We also have two candidates who have proposed themselves. Now, why don't you explain to me, isn't this an act of the essence of the law that people representing the public on the RTS program board, who represent journalists, who represent drama artists, who represent musicians? It's a game. Apparently there's some kind of pattern here and some numbers that they've been working and there's been a vote on the system one, three, six, eight, 12, etc. And, unfortunately, it's arrived. This is a review of the RRA Council, not a review of the candidates. The candidates are more or less irrelevant than the one I singled out. Who hasn't passed since there were 19? For example, Bata Grulovic, who has been doing television for 40 years, has not passed from RTS to world television, etc., proposed by the United Television Experts Association. No prominent director, Srboljub Bozinovic, proposed by, behold, miracles, the Association of Serbian Drama Artists. So, a serious organization. Not only does it have a seal, because everyone has a seal, it's not hard to make stamps. They didn't pass, and when you look at the biographies of all these candidates, it will be clear that these two men must undoubtedly be sooner than any of these, and first of all, than those who have proposed themselves. I don't want to talk about them at all. We're going to nominate these candidates? The only happiness is that this body is relatively irrelevant, so I can't do any harm, but I still think we're tearing down the credibility of the Assembly by voting for such biographies and for such candidates as I described. They can't help it, they can't help it, they can't get rid of RTS, but if we're going to be serious and if we're going to build European standards and if we're trying to change something in this country, this would be the last time, or it should be the last time that people who deserve to be there to get down, get down, and then the proposal that absolutely doesn't deserve to be considered, or at least most of these, I don't say all of them. Imagine, please, someone couldn't find at least a friend to propose to him, how are most of these proposed by some natural persons, so he had to propose himself? What does that say about the candidate? So, at a time when such a hack is on the media, which was spoken of by colleague Trivan, in which the government is silent about this hack, where the lists are being made, we are doing such a serious job in such an unserious way. Not just us, but those who sent us these 12 candidates. I think it deserves criticism, and I think the public should have found out about it, but don't answer it now, so vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9250	The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9251	I'm reporting as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It is a very important note, because I had previously spoken as president of the Committee and explained the procedure, and now, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to say a few words, in a way and initiated by what my colleague Ostojić said. The names proposed by the Broadcasting Agency were known to the public before the Committee established the list and I think that some media published these biographies and they did not cause a good public reaction for reasons that Mr Ostojić mainly mentioned. It is my duty to say this, too, that the expert services of the Committee on Culture in preparation for the session asked the Council how they accepted the candidates proposed by the natural persons and they called, unfortunately, on the Statute adopted by this assembly. I would like to point out that I and I will propose to the Committee, or as a National MP, will ask that this statute be amended and that we define this procedure a little better so that we do not come to a proposal that cannot be put on hold by all of us in this assembly. The fact is that the law does not define the competences that are necessary for the programming committees, because they are not necessary. The Programme Committee has one role to play to represent citizens in the Public Service, to represent their voice, their needs, to improve the Public Service programme, so that it is really possible to propose candidates from all areas of social life, regardless of their expertise, but the fact is that, if we want to, and we have talked a lot about the Public Service that needs to be broadcast, what problems it faces in its work, I think that, regardless of the program board is an advisory body, especially when Parliament chooses candidates, we should choose the best. I would point out in the end that we could change a culture where if an organ is advisory, we find it completely non-binding. So, the programming board is defined and established by law and has a very important role. I hope that RTS management and that all those who decide on the Public Service Programme will also respect the opinions of those on the Programme Committee. Finally, I would like to make one proposal, Mr. President, to the professional services of the Assembly, that, given that no voting procedure or law, or any of our regulations of business, is foreseen, consider the possibility that the list of candidates we have proposed as a Assembly and agreed on, votes uniquely, to allow MPs to vote individually in this second part, on this second list, because I don't suppose we all want to vote in the package, and that we can't express our will in the way in which it is common in the Assembly. That's my suggestion to you. I hope you'll consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9252	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the list of registered MPs. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9253	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be dealing with two biographys very briefly because, looking at all the data that we've been offered, there's this very interesting trend, which is like one kind of infection spreading through the government, which is that two candidates, who have been running for natural persons, are one unfinished student of Megatrend University, and the other graduate student of Megatrend University. Megatrend University is becoming an institution whose influence on the work of the government and on the work of other institutions in this country is growing. I am very glad that at least one private initiative in Serbia, in this way, is uncritically supported by this government and by this majority, but I would like to be explained to me, that the government, which supported this kind of candidacy, explains whether there is a conflict of interest in one of the candidates, Tanja Santrac, who deals with, among other things, marketing and selling advertising space, etc., could she, through her closeness with an institution that has this time, possibly come into a particular conflict of interest? This is just enough to point out that, if anything else, what's clear is that the process itself was not in the right way nor declared, nor explained, nor consulted with those associations that are close to the subject of broadcasting, on the one hand, and all those who think that public service should be a service in which everyone who is expert on certain issues can get the word. I have to say that one of the comparisons that has been made lately is the quality of the public program HRT and our Public Service. There is not a single topic discussed on HRT without one of the representatives of civil society engaged in this area. I expect that in my future policy, at least this programme council advocates that it become the principle of this public programme of ours, among other things, because exclusively participants in all discussions on the public programme come from political structures. I think it gives an unobstructed picture of the situation in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9254	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right to Article 96, want to hear the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. I'd like to inform you that we will proceed at 4:00. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has informed the National Assembly that the next members of the government are unable to attend today's session in which parliamentary questions are being asked. Before we start asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that apply to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. If, in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, certain facts require a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for responding to the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for the longest five minutes to answer the question. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and giving answers, thus not allowing replication and reference to the injury of the Businessmen. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the National Assembly, by, in turn, receiving first words from MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on my behalf the students of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, who are currently monitoring our work from the Great Hall Gallery. The first to be declared is the MP of the people, Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9256	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President, Prime Ministers, this is a nice opportunity for us to ask questions once a month on behalf of the citizens who elected us and sent us. I have a question for Mr. Rasim Ljajic. Serbia has great high-capacity hybrids, and has access to foreign best hybrids, but besides that, we do not have enough corn. Why? One of the main reasons is that the consumption of mineral fertilisers in Serbia is three times lower than in the European Union, so that plants cannot form the generation we expect. Do you intend and what do you think of the proposal to open a tender for imports of 150 to 200,000 mineral fertilisers, with them available in Serbia by 20 March, to give farmers an eight-month loan to return grains of corn and thus have a gender that would allow 2013 after this dry, disastrously dry year that cost us two billion dollars to export about a million and two million tonnes of corn, which is an effect of nearly 500 million euros? That's one question. I have a question, but there's no Mr. Mladjan Dinkic here, but I'll ask the Prime Minister, Hansel Dacic. Mr. President, recently this house has been adopted by the Russian railway loan law Valjevo-Zvornik. I did for that railway network to be completed, but with that railroad, unfortunately, there's no goods, there's no passenger who'll make that railroad worth it. There is a proposal for Serbia to ask the World Bank to open a 500m-euro credit line and to pay the money to make watering projects and watering systems, so as to reduce Serbia's agrarian dependence on poor weather opportunities. Mr. Dacic, after knowledge, the most rewarding investment is water and watering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9257	The word is from Vice President Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9258	It's a great proposal, Mr. Trnavcievich. Unfortunately, we don't have the money to realize this idea. The stock reserve budget for this year is 3.5 billion. Given that the average price of fertilizer is about 400 euros per tonne, you can see that we don't have half to spend the entire budget. We spent only 20,000 tons of fertilizer this year, only in exchange for wheat. So it would be ideal if we could even half of what you were talking about, that we could even divide 50,000 tons, but simply the budget is so restrictive that we can't do any more. For all food and non-food products we have 3.5 billion, they actually have stock reserves. Plus that the stock reserves, conditionedly damaged by a new law where their rights to their own income have been denied, and we have to provide ourselves with how long we are with this 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9259	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9260	Mr. Ljajic, I know how it is with the budget, but I do know that it is possible for the Department of Stock Reserves, by order of the Government and your Ministry of Trade, to borrow a loan with one regressed and acceptable interest, because it is a very profitable job, which brings profit. Therefore, it is not about the return on investment, it should not be out of the budget, but rather about giving the order, the consent to put the Stock Reserve Directorate in charge of a bank. There used to be primary loans and then it was said that they were the accelerators of a high inflation, which was absolutely incorrect. There were abuses, accidental spending of that borrowed money, but agriculture is at this time in such a state, farmers don't have, cooperatives don't have cheap loans at all. Cheap loans could do one job that would bring them and Serbia a very significant benefit. So, get a warrant, get the Stock Reserve Directorate in charge of taking one, two banks, Postage Savings, and I don't know who. The loan will be returned in November 2013, with no earthquakes, strokes, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9261	Thank you. The next reported is MP Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9262	Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this address, I will ask a few questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, and these questions will address the opening of new border crossings towards Hungary. As you know, this House confirmed on 15 November an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. I think we all know the situation at our border crossings, especially towards Hungary. These huge detentions are not only a problem for residents living in the territory of Vojvodina, but they create problems for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have seen a solution for years in opening new border crossings. The Union of Duke Hungarians raised the issue before the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly in late 2008. That's when we got an answer from Minister Dacic that he was planning to open up a new border crossing towards Hungary. This agreement, which has been ratified and which has come into force, envisions several new border crossings. It's primarily a border crossing at the Bački Vinograds. The agreement provides for the border crossing to be opened following the provision of adequate technical and infrastructure conditions. I'd ask a question - how far did it come? Can we expect that new border crossing in January or February, at the latest, next year? As you know, Hungary has invested about 2m euros in these facilities. The roads were built by EU funds. That border crossing is almost over, almost finished, and there are still a few feet of asphalt missing. As I said at the outset, we are interested, I think, in the entire Republic of Serbia and all its citizens, that this border crossing is opened as soon as possible and that traffic is cleared at the Horgos border crossing. The second border crossing is the Horgos-Resca road crossing. There, after providing technical and infrastructure conditions, traffic would be approved for vehicles which are not allowed to traffic on the highway. I think that border crossing is just as important, as is the opening of a new border crossing at Ridzica in western Backo. I hope the Prime Minister will be able to tell us the good news to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia about the opening of these border crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9263	Thank you. Mr. Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Your Honor, it is true that the various agreements we signed with the Republic of Hungary have defined the opening of several border crossings, including the Bačka Vinograd border crossing - Ashothalom and the reopening of the Horgos-Resca border crossing at the old location, between Serbia and Hungary. So now that I'm not explaining the details, these mixed commissions dealing with these issues have been formed. There's always a problem with infrastructure conditions. When it comes to this transition to Bački Vinograda, it remains on our side to make an asphalting about 100 metres long. This obligation has been taken over by local self-government, but it doesn't matter, we will insist on it and help, as well as to connect the facility with a telephone and optical cable to the "Telek" facility in Bačka Vinogradi. Of course, phone and information equipment are necessary to equip the offices themselves, but that's not an essential problem. At the last meeting with representatives of the Hungarian side, we have been informed that the works on the Hungarian side are not fully completed and that the opening of the border crossing is scheduled for March 2013. Of course, we'll follow this. It is our interest to do this as soon as possible, because it is in the interest and good relations that we have with Hungary and the good bilateral relations and the political dialogue that we are conducting, because it was clear in the President of Hungary. There are also expected to be some political initiatives and events next year to contribute to some historic reconciliation and to put an end to the problems of the past, two presidents are expected to take part. We will have a joint meeting next year of two governments -- the Hungarian government and the Serbian government. This is really in our interest to finish as soon as possible, not only this border crossing, but others are crossing. I'll remind you, this Horgos-Resca crossing has been closed practically, and now it needs to be restored to function again. Of course, you should think about other crossings and not just here. We also have initiatives by Romania, Bulgaria, but there is a certain problem, since all these EU member states and then sometimes they do not have a license, as they wish to access the Schengen area, do not have permission to open those so-called. Small-time crossings. Then it happens that people who need to cross the border have to go a hundred miles or even more, go around, get to some crossings, and that's certainly not good. It is our interest that wherever we border with the EU, both Hungary and Romania and Bulgaria, but also in the future Croatia provide as many crossings as possible so that it can practically work in a way that is most painless for citizens and most efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9265	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9266	I thank Mr. Prime Minister for his answers. First, I want to say that both SVM and SPS participate in the city of Subotica. However, we don't have a mayor, we don't have an SPS, we don't have an SVM, so I suggest that we act together somehow so that in the city of Subotica, it's paved that hundred meters to end it. A joke aside, I really thank you for these answers. I would ask you, Prime Minister, to do everything possible to get these border crossings opened as soon as possible, first of all at the Bački Vinograds and the Horgos old border crossing. This is also in the interest of good bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary. It's really good that there will be a historic reconciliation in the first half of next year. This is extremely important for the Hungarian minority in Serbia and the Serb minority in Hungary. This problem is, above all, the problem of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know that during Christmas on the Gregorian calendar on Horgos, it's been up to seven hours, and in Kelebia up to three, four hours. It would be really good if those border crossings opened as soon as possible. I hope there will be no further delay and no later than March will open a border crossing at the Baški Vinograds. As for the old Horgos border crossing, there is still much to be done, but I hope that the government of the Republic of Serbia will take the necessary steps to open the border crossing in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9267	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9268	In the current situation in the fight against corruption and crime, I would say that the SPI fully supports the fight, but at the same time also the strengthening of institutions and we are opposed to any kind of abuse of policy in dealing with corruption and crime, which have become intolerable in our society. The first question is a matter of second importance, first of all, for the prime minister, but of first importance to our agricultural producers. It is generally known that the SAA is effective on 1 January as regards imports of agricultural products from EU countries. I wonder if the government will do something to protect our farmers, since they are still, however, not ready to compete in the European market? When will the Law on the Encouragement of Agriculture be in the congregation procedure? The second question is, since the Ministry of Culture has brought a media strategy, which provides for the existence of six regional public services, that strategy was brought a little more than a year ago, but it is obvious that there are influences of powerful media lobbys that would govern the media space of all Serbia, I am interested in whether to enter the process of forming six regional public services, so that people from within Serbia will get information of importance for their environment, for their lives, and not to watch in the afternoons every day the Belgrade chronicle or privileged Studio B? Since the culture minister isn't here, it's a question for the prime minister. The third question is for the finance minister. A good example from England shows that the finance minister daily delivers reports to the state auditor in England on the spending of funds that day and on the justice of the spending of funds. A new year goes by, the country is in a difficult state, the unemployment rate is high, the purchasing power of the population falls, the dinar has dropped by 50% compared to 2008; 40% of people's supplies are expensive; but we see that local self-governments, I know it's not your direct jurisdiction, but the ministry can intervene, behave rather dissuasively and announces the hosting of powerful singers, who are now going to perform for large fees, and cities are in a glare as if prosperity, has the Ministry of Finance given any recommendation to local self-government and their public enterprises to comply with the austerity measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9269	I need to ask you a question, Mr. Chiquiris. Have you asked about the Agricultural Encouragement Act? Yeah. If I understand you, since that law came to us in the procedure of December 13th, I did not put it in this session, since it is my part of the job, and that is why I want to tell you, but it will be at the first next session of the National Assembly and that is for sure. The word is Mrs Grubeshic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9270	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, it is now, I've seen, the current subject, but there's little real information. Customs duties shall not be suspended from 1 January. Customs remain and the SAA customs duties are phased out until the country enters the EU. So there is no reason for our agricultural producers to fear that suddenly customs duties will be lifted and that there will be sudden imports of goods from the EU without customs duties. We are aware that we are not yet competitive, so the protective mechanisms are embedded in the SAA itself. But, clean information works, Croatia abolished customs duties on EU goods as early as 2006, and only the following year, in 2013. During that period there was a period of adjustment and they seemed to have made good use of it. Macedonia cancelled in 2011, and when it will join the EU, we do not know. We'll see. In any case, there is no concern that the suspension of customs duties will take place on January 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9271	The next reported person is MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9272	My question is for Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. Mr. Obradovic, when the Ministry of Education will draft a rule that will be binding on all higher education institutions in Serbia, on the basis of which universities in Serbia will issue English-language diplomas. At present, we have a rather undefined situation, given the information I have, that the University of Novi Sad is issuing these diplomas in English according to one of its own rules. Some colleges don't betray, and many students only issue certificates on the number of exams passed. It is very dangerous that our higher education institutions do not have a standardized rule that everyone would follow and based on which these diplomas would be issued. That, in other words, is our obligation across the EU. That's what the EU wants from us. The second issue related to this concerns the nostrification of diplomats in Serbia. Many of our young educated people have left our country, I hope that a large number of them will return, after the measures this government is taking, but a certain number of them have a problem with nostrification of diplomas, because it actually takes a very long time and costs a lot. I also know that it is not easy to check and measure the knowledge acquired at other universities and I know that many countries have problems with the nostrification of diplomas, but there are countries in our environment that have properly addressed this issue. For example, a year ago in Croatia was waiting for a degree to be nostrified. It also cost a lot, but now the nostration of the diploma in Croatia takes two months and costs 40 euros and has a large and increased number of requests from young people from their diaspora that would return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9273	The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9274	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Filipovski, I'll try to answer your essential questions briefly. Because it's not just a matter of nostrifying a diploma or issuing a diploma of our universities and colleges, it's also a question of the price of issuing those diplomas. If you'll excuse me, I'll start with the third question, the price question. Namely, one of the remarks that we received when assessing the quality of our higher education, at the last ministerial conference by countries participating in the European higher education area, was that we issue diplomas and charge for it, which in other countries does so at minimum cost or that there is no cost at all, or that the issue of diplomas is not charged. It's a topic we'll definitely discuss at the next session. The circumstances of the National Council for Higher Education, because there is no reason for students to pay for the whole process, i.e. where the state finances 54% of students at all state higher education institutions in Serbia, to pay specifically for the issue of a diploma. We want to see why some universities charge and why the cost of issuing these diplomas is high. In the same context, we will also consider this question that you asked, the issue of issuing a diploma in English. Right, we're doing the rulebook, but we wanted together with the National High Education Council and the Conus representatives to agree on a position, although I can use one traditional dictionary, and bring the best solution. The next question you asked is a question that, unfortunately, there are many years back. There is a paradox, to insist on recognition in the countries of European higher education or at some other universities around the world or in countries where our young people leave and demand that the diploma be nostrified. On the other hand, this process of nostrifying foreign diplomas in our country is very slowed down by the very complicated procedure of recognising these diplomas within the university, given that this is directed to the university of parenthood, and then they assess the content of the degree, i.e. the study programme, and it takes a very long time. Last year, at Belgrade University, we had prepared a draft law that would be passed at the government, and then delivered to the Assembly where we would try to pass the law to address the issue of nostrification of these diplomas. We will try to do this, given that by the end of 2012, we are in 2013 to solve this issue and thus help all those people who ended up somewhere in other countries of the university, that this diploma is recognised here and that it can be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9275	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9276	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dacic, thank you for being here today in Parliament and all your ministers and ministers. I have a specific question for you, not a suggestion because I think it's too late for something like that. It's the end of the year and every decent job at the end of the year consists of bills and formulates politics for some time ahead. When will you resign, Mr Dacic, and thus help this country, because you are the Prime Minister who does not exist in Serbia? I can't say I'm happy about it. I have always been a critic of what you've done as Prime Minister with a great deal of understanding for the circumstances in which you make political decisions. I'll tell you why you should resign. Because you are the leader of an institution that has demoted itself by degraded the whole country as well. Mr. Dacic, in Serbia, it is much more important what working groups do. The working group writes the law and then it adopts itself in parliament by acclaiming. He casts out the law on mocking companies by taking pictures in Serbia, making the country a party fortress to which you bowed. I'm talking about SNS. Task force arrests without a warrant. The working groups are working on the media. Working groups are holding talks with Kosovo. Then why do we have the government and you as president? Economic policy, the fight against corruption, the resolution of national problems, above all the problems in Kosovo, have opened up space for something that only naive can understand as a policy motivated by good intentions and a clear goal for which our society should move. What is Serbia's vision in 2013 from your perspective, from your government's perspective? What does she look like today? Mr. Dacic, you're the leader of a country where working groups determine the rules of life and tabloids tell us. No institutions in Serbia have been affirmed in the past six months, although they were at a very low level when you came to power as Prime Minister. None, and many are demoted. In front of you is Mladjan Dinkic, he is the leader of the URS. The fight against corruption in a country that doesn't have a police director, in a country where you as a press minister find out what's going on in the police department, in a country that doesn't have the first police man in Nis, Novi Sad... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The first police man in Kragujevac is at war with the city authorities. Then who's leading that fight? Fighting individuals or fighting systems. If it's systemic, where are the villains? What are our goals? Where's the space for each of us?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9277	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Prime Minister Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9278	I don't know if I have the need to answer this question of yours - when I'll resign. I won't resign. You can get rid of me. I still don't think this is a communist show. It's the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I understand what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, I just have to say that the institutions of working groups or crisis headquarters have brought you in after 5 October 2000 and I think everything in this country has to work by law. If there's anything I agree on about what you said, we need to systematically address all the issues you mention, and the fight against corruption, and when it comes to economic relations, and when it comes to the police and when it comes to all the other issues and topics that are important to one society. You know what I said in the exposé when I was chosen here. First, I said we had to stop the economic downturn. Serbia was falling economically with a free fall, so to speak. Did we manage to make the people live better? I'm sure the government hasn't had enough opportunities in the last six months to achieve great successes or to achieve great failures. In this period, it is certain that several important branches have been set up for the economic collapse that has threatened us and which are still threatening us. But Serbia is not in a circle of countries currently threatened by bankruptcy or collapse, such as in some countries in the region. It is true that Serbia had the biggest fall this year, but isn't that what I was talking about here in the exposé? At the time, I said that Serbia is the most unstable country, which has the highest unemployment rate in Europe, the country where you have the highest interest on various loans, a country where you do not have enough incentives and business environments in other countries in the region. I'm sure that didn't happen after this government's election. Of course, this government will be and is responsible for everything. But if the people can't live better, then the government can't live better than the people. It takes so much to be honest with our people, not that the situation in the country is getting worse and some are getting richer. Where's the justice? In this country, more justice is needed in every way. (The People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Don't share justice. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9279	Mr. Jovanovic, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9280	I don't know why you're upset. I'm not talking to you. I address the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia and answer your question, and I answer in the first sentence. When it comes to other topics, about the EU, Mr Jovanovic – when were you closer to the EU than Serbia is now? When? Do you have an answer to that question? You promised this people entry into the EU who knew when, and you allowed Nikolic, Vukic and Dacic to lead you into the EU and to do so more successfully than you did. I've been all over Europe and the world and I haven't heard that anyone has expressed their regret for me so-called. European, democratic forces no longer in power in Serbia. Why? Because you are no longer a European or democratic force, because it is no longer your monopoly, just as Serbia is not a monopoly of any other party that it considers to be the only flame holder in the national sense. That's why I'm absolutely ready to answer for what I'm doing. I don't answer to you, I answer to the people who vote in the election. (President: Time. In Parliament you can ask a question of mistrust to the government. Go ahead, but I haven't met a government that was supported by more MPs than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9281	Thank you. It's been five minutes and 51 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9282	Is there a limit?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9283	He's got, like, five minutes. Analogue, Article 214.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9284	You're a changed Rules of Procedure. No problem, I've been here all night with you. I answer all kinds of questions. There's no question that you can ask, not that I can't answer. No good questions, no bad questions. There are only good and bad answers, and I'm sure your answers in these 12 years, after October 5, were disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9285	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Mr. Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9286	It's clear to me that you're trying to successfully act here in parliament. Don't you feel uncomfortable in the atmosphere that has found you here in the assembly, in these harsh issues that Serbian parliamentarians are exhibiting? The blades are only sharper in Pyong-yang when a great leader appears. What have you become? Someone who shares law in Serbia. That's how you talk about yourself. You're the Prime Minister who's supposed to say here in parliament at the end of the year -- sorry, citizens, what we didn't plan to do, 170 thousand of you were out of work, inflation increased, investment decreased, business life in the country, we started negative energy, we introduced weekend raids, we traumatized you with our pointless inter-party and coalition conflicts. You're the minister of police. Who has defended you for four years to fight corruption and crime? Who in Serbia listens to the President of the Republic? Who in Serbia listens to the Prime Minister? How do those leaders in the country who abuse institutions go about building their own policy? Lying? You know very well how to answer these questions. I've been in politics for more than 12 years. I've been in politics for 17 years. In those 17 years, I've fought you a lot more than I've done, among other things, with you. Believe me, what I've done with you is more important to me than I've ever done against you. You've forced me to spend my life in pointless conflicts. We didn't come here to fight with those who are power today. We are here to protect people's interests and the ability only to formulate these interests and present them in a clear way, politically dependent. We have a bad country today, Mr. Dacic, not because it's a difficult economic crisis, but because we have a crisis of governance. Who runs this country? You or your first vice president? Ask the people around you, and you'll get an answer to that question. That's not good. It's never been good and it can't be good now. Don't call for research. The working groups are investigating, so they discover that Serbs prefer their leaders rather than themselves, more than Milosevic and Tito together. Enough of this madness in the 21st century at the end of 2012. Just one message to Serbia – we are unable to answer the question of what is the goal of our people and our country, help us formulate it? What does Kosovo politics look like? Does Cvian need to address the Constitutional Court, to get an answer from the Constitutional Court, since only his questions are answered? Here, DSS here, we never agreed on Kosovo politics. The Parliamentary Group has asked the Constitutional Court – are the procedures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in negotiations with Kosovo institutions and the EU in accordance with the Constitution or not? The Constitutional Court is silent. Then what regulates our relations, if not the Constitution and the laws? Tabloids, at the ceremony where you show up so you won't be scribbled on the front page tomorrow? Who do you and your party and most of your coalition withdraw from? What does our country look like today? We don't want to talk about affairs. I don't care about that, and I could say a lot. (President: Time. What I know forces me to stand up to you in what parts of your government do, and you keep quiet about it. Who's to say that's okay with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9287	The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9288	You know, I don't belong to a group of people who want to share revolutionary justice. In any case, I have the right to express my opinion and when I speak to anyone who is right or wrong, I speak from a political point of view. After all, we are political parties fighting for citizens' support. In that sense, I understand the need for what you're saying as an opposition party. I have no bearing on what questions you will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you are not satisfied with these questions to the government, I cannot force the members of the government to ask themselves. We stand before you, so ask what you will. If we don't know how to respond or if we don't have the information, you'll get it in writing. I don't see any reason for that kind of noise. Why? I think we have common goals. This is all a struggle for political space on the political scene. I understand that. This is a fight for positioning. In this sense, I want to speak as Prime Minister, I don't care. I am now talking about the situation in which Serbia is very difficult. It may be one of the most difficult periods in history. The real and critical insight of this reality depends on whether the policy we are leading will be realistic and realistic. At the end of this government's term, it's not what we wanted, it's what we did. No one has the magic or magic wand to solve some burning issues, such as the economic crisis or the KIM problem in six months' time. We need to be aware of the situation we are in, the real relationship of strength and the consequences of these decisions. It's a responsible attitude towards the people and the state. Now we're in the timeline, where every decision has big and far-reaching consequences. Therefore, once we talk about KIM, and this will certainly be said in the first weeks of next year, the resolution that will be proposed together, which will be jointly prepared by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be a proposal from the Government, since we have this legislative initiative, or the possibility of proposing documents, it is important to find a balance between the decisions that we need to make and the consequences that these decisions can make. This time is much more responsible and serious than any of our parties' party interests. I don't think there's any reason for these tones, unless we're all acting. I don't need to act, because everything I've said, I've talked to before, and what I'm saying now, I think I'm doing it responsibly on behalf of the Serbian government, and towards this people and this country. If we're successful at it, they'll judge the citizens in the election. They'll share justice. We can give our opinion about it. I don't see any of the political parties as enemies. I don't see anyone as a place to pick up political points in the criticism of one or the other. I know there are politicians here who like to talk to me, some of them did it on purpose. It was appropriate for them to attack me, and for me to attack them. It looked nice for the public and everyone was happy. No one can get any points on Kosovo today, because the situation is very bad. We're on the lost ground. European integration, the next deadline will be in March. I would hate to be back on the subject of Kosovo or Europe. (President: Time. I would hate for this to be the main topic of our discussions because it is simplified. So we need to make a balanced policy that will simply try not to put us in front of this dilemma. Because, Mr. Jovanovic, thank you for criticizing me, but be assured that I will not resign because I think I am working in the interests of the people and the state, and that will, after all, best judge the people when the time comes, and that will be four years from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9289	Thank you. Just sign in one more time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9290	Mr. President, it's been a long time these five minutes, and you're trying to spend it. That's how it usually happens when you have nothing to say. In this assembly, established after the May elections, our parliamentary group has submitted the most laws and initiatives, which, apart from the name of our party, are located in a place where it must be found as a driver of the initiative, can by no means be treated as party initiatives, but above all as an expression of the most serious concern for the whole society. Look at the agreement you made your government and what government policy looks like six months after that agreement. What are you arguing with me about Kosovo? Solve it within your ruling coalition with the president of the state, he has brought you to the post of Prime Minister. You are with him today in a misunderstanding within the framework of Kosovo's policy and platform, not with me. You've always been with me. Since 1996, Mr. Dacic, there's a lot of arguments that would probably make every reasonable sufficiently firm evidence that at least he listens to us, us from the LDP. Since 1996, every misunderstanding, regardless of the severity of the conflicts that followed it, has ended up being changed by you, which from the fact that a handful of hooligans stole the election, which we have reached lex specialis, which from Nikolic, Seselj and Vucic's referendum and JUL-ovski, which we said -- not NATO, we are reaching the Vucician, who in Washington is asking the Americans to stay in Kosovo for a little while, which of our questions -- that you are pushing Serbs into barricades a year ago, we are today reaching the Serbian gendarme that is destroying those barricades. You can't change like that forever. (President: Time. It's the end of it all. That's why you have to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9291	National MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9292	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, since the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Selakovic, is not there, I would only refer the issue to the Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr Dacic. The MPs of the People's Party together prepare a legislative proposal for the National Assembly, among other things, because we are convinced that the parliamentary laws are needed by our democracy. We are at the very beginning of preparations and we believe that we will soon agree and formulate this as a joint proposal from the URS parliamentary group, but in order for this proposal to have a congregation majority on its side necessary for the adoption of the law, I think it is decisive to take the view that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will take. That's why I'm asking, with any suggestions. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. In the existing law, as you know, there are a whole series of measures, obligations that, in the interest of transparency, the legality of work, the prevention of corruptive action, must be binding on public function holders. However, what is incomprehensible and totally unacceptable to us, that in the sense of the existing law, representatives of citizens are considered exclusively elected to the holders of public functions. In addition to so many state authorities and services in a massive state apparatus, only citizens and their elected representatives are suspected of corruption. Neither the top military and police officers, chiefs of administration and service, have any obligations under the law, they are completely doubtful of corruption, but corruption is suspected of per definition of us and the priorities elected representatives of citizens. On the occasion of the most powerful Kragujean events and political processes being conducted there, I will take the police as an example, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I will say that the Party Together for the Shumadi has confidence in Serbian police officers. The Kragujevac police are our neighbors. These are people who are professionally, responsible in the 90 percent volume... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They do their complex jobs, but in order for the police to have the same confidence, we demand that the commissioners and the relevant police officers be checked, and this law would be the first step in that direction. I'm interested in the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9293	Thank you. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9294	Since there is no justice minister, the justice ministry is responsible for the legal framework, when it comes to fighting corruption. I'm sure we should consider all these laws. I have also pointed out several times during the previous government's term of office that sometimes we take a topic as taboo and as a totem that no one can criticize. Then, on that basis, several experts sit down and write certain laws, saying that they are European standards. So we came up with a few laws that showed in application that not only are they not European standards, but that there are more different solutions in the European frameworks, than that, you remember here, for a time the main theme was whether mayors can be MPs, so whether an MP can be a minister, a million of some topics that are not European standards. That is why I think that all these issues should be considered and analysed precisely from this aspect of best examples and best practice that exists in the EU. Also, I think it should be clear to everyone that corruption was not born in Serbia. Like everything else, it was created where there was the most money. But there's another story about it. Many ways to finance parties, personal collection of money in some Western countries have been declared legal, such as taking a commission for certain jobs, etc. Imagine here with us if someone would do it like that. I have my colleagues, interior ministers in European countries whose husband has companies that deal with business. Imagine it's here with us. Then it turns out we're the worst. What I'm saying is, I don't want to defend anyone at all, but I'm just talking about the device of analysis that's just going to systematically solve all these issues and, among other things, what you've proposed, amending and supplementing the law, not just about the agency, but about all sorts of system laws that should be directed at fighting corruption. I don't know what's going to happen in that bill of yours and how you think it is. The government will take a stand and it's no problem to discuss all these issues, but at this point, maybe it's not just a topic to be dealt with by your party or coalition, maybe there are a whole series of other examples that have been shown in the application of this law as if it's not working in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9295	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9296	Thank you for your response and for one implicit support contained in it. I would like it to be simply clear in this initiative how important it is for both the government's credibility and for supporting the government's policy in the fight against corruption, which can just be unthinked, not by political activists, but by officials of the state's apparatus and parts of the services that should give citizens the most confidence in its authenticity. In that sense, I can only support your thinking and motivate an even more intense and affirmative relationship with the following examples, I say, again motivated by the current situation, from Kragujevac I come, where current political processes are topic number one. You know, it doesn't seem convincing when the chief of police in one local community brings in charges of abuse of the official position of people, according to all we know, poorer than yourself. It does not seem overly convincing when a local police official, after all reports to all the competent authorities on the threat of journalists, for serious suspicions of corruption in his biggest circle, has no sanctions for threats to elected citizens' representatives, but for this reason intensifys police actions towards local self-government and elected citizens' representatives. There is an impression that behind such officials the state actually stands power that neither elected representatives of citizens nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do anything. That, then, is what discourages the initiative represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is what, by the way, the parliamentary group of the URS unreservedly supports, just like my party Together for the Forest. Yes, the fight against corruption and against crime, but it seems that both organised crime and corruption will produce the necessary results only when police, prosecutor's and judiciary reform is met as a previous condition, which is a condition for the creation of the apparatus for success in the fight. So, I support this thinking that you've made, and we're going to create a motivation for us to be both efficient and quick together in this business.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9297	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9298	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the government, I would like to ask a question from the Prime Minister, as it concerns strategic orientation in Serbia's politics. However, when you hear it, decide for yourself who will answer. So the question is, does the Serbian government plan to review the regime of Serbia and the EU's relations? If I didn't think this was an emergency, I wouldn't even ask a question, but I'll explain why I think this is an emergency matter. I'm not going to talk about KIM, just to try and think about this thing regardless of this question. As far as KIM, the EU, as you know, is not asking Serbia to recognise KIM, but only asking Serbia to hand over KIM. But it is not the only problem in Serbia and the EU's relations, and that is why I will focus the issue precisely on the rest of the relationship. The EU's conditionality policy towards Serbia has been free for years. But it's not just that either, there's a problem with the EU's capacity to expand, and we need to think about it as partners that we have and a contractual relationship. By the way, the contractual relationship contained in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has not yet come into force. The agreement was signed four and a half years ago, on 29 April 2008, and today has not come into force, which in itself speaks of the EU's relationship to Serbia. The problem is here in the EU right now. It at this point, by everything that happens within its institutions and its development policy, has no capacity to expand and can be shown in a number of factors. She doesn't have the budgetary capacity to expand. It has not adopted the budget for the following year yet, let alone for the period from 2014 to 2020. Judging by the amount of money it makes for Serbia, it is becoming less and less money. It does not have the ability to absorb labour from new countries, therefore, its labour market to expand further. She doesn't have an institutional ability to expand. She doesn't have the social ability to spread. The European Union is increasingly closing, according to its visa policy towards Serbia and other Western Balkan countries. However, it is not a problem that the EU is such, the problem is that Serbia does not change its attitude towards the EU and its contractual relationship, at least in what it can do. In the EU, Serbia is dealing with several of its officials and officials who actually have a role to play in turning that dolop from Rakic's song. Serbia has many shortcomings in this relationship, which I may be able to say in the next report, but enough reason, given these shortcomings, that the government is seriously reviewing Serbia and the EU's relationship, without some major problems, based on its own facts, its own analysis of what has been done so far and its own development strategies.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9299	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9300	Since this is a general issue, I think it is very difficult to answer a question that is actually a rhetorical question that implies that we now need to change our strategy towards the EU. There are certainly problems in EU member states when it comes to enlargement, i.e. problems concerning their public opinion, which is against EU enlargement, which is logical, because there are a large number of countries that give more money to the EU than they get. Serbia is certainly not among those countries and will not be among those countries. If we now look at what should be our foreign policy priorities in the next period, I do not see the possibility that Serbia can lead foreign policy successfully unless there is one constructive relationship when it comes to European integration, objectively speaking. You're all aware of that. Besides, that's what you beat Milosevic in 2000. You didn't beat him for yelling that he betrayed national and state interests, but you said that he was at war with the whole world. You also said he committed war crimes, not you personally, of course, but I'm talking about DOS, what it was called then. Everyone has a piece of their biography that's not exactly famous, but good. In any case, I think today would have made an irresponsible move towards our country and our people if we would have interrupted our European integration process. This does not mean that Serbia cannot make a different decision. Yes, but we must be aware that 56% of our trade with the EU, that the largest number of investors come from the EU, that Germany and Russia are our largest foreign trade partners, with 70% of Russia's imports going on oil and gas. We also need to be aware that the EU and Russia are the largest foreign trade partner. So why would Serbia say – I will not go to the EU. Imagine tomorrow the situation, in twenty years, that our children live in a country that will be the only one in this region that will not be a member of the EU and where going to Albania will be going to the EU. I can't fight for such a Serbia, regardless of what Serbia prefers in the first place than the EU, because we are not going to the EU because of them, but because of us. When it comes to national and state interests, no one makes us, no one forbids us to defend these national, national interests as we wish and as we will. But I don't see how else we can defend unless we're in the game. You can't win a game you don't participate in. Are we going to win here? It's a big question of what we can do now. You say now - the EU makes us hand over Kosovo. I have to tell you, and let me ask you, haven't we almost handed him over yet? We did. Why? Because only the Serbian national state interest where the Serb community lives remained in Kosovo. You're talking now and you're looking at it from the aspect of the books. After all, you too, Professor Samardzic. What class are you teaching? European integration? What are you teaching? Is that right? So which class do you teach? What class are you going to teach if we shut it down? On the other hand, you know how, you guys can't just slap other people's slaps without putting up with some slaps. Like you said last time here and about me ugly things, and said the gentleman who lives and Paris. Is that right? You are now not ill in Paris EU, and when you come to Belgrade, it is the worst possible institution in Serbia. Please, go back to Serbia, and then speak against the EU. (President: Please, let's finish this part of the exhibition here, you have a chance. Or return your children here to share the fate of the rest of the people, not to force other people's children, since you told us to be against the EU. I have no reason to defend the EU more than you do. They brought you to power in 2000. Mr. Dacic, I have to ask you to finish here after it's been six minutes. Well, am I right, Mr. Stefanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9301	Mr. Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9302	Please, a little peace, if you could warn the MPs to let me say something. Mr. Prime Minister, as the teachers would say, but in primary school, you missed the subject, given my question. You didn't answer my question at all, which was brief and clear. I'm always trying to ask a brief and clear question so as not to let the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister go around a lot. But you simply can't, or you don't want to speak specifically and clearly to the question, but you're saying a lot of things. Of course, that's not what I'm talking about. But you have one creamworth that you gave me a moment when you said that Serbia was never closer to the EU than now. You know, just because you're swimming full steam towards the EU doesn't mean you know where you're going. So you swim as hard as you can, you have the illusion of approaching a goal that doesn't exist. There's my question. You talk about Albania in the EU, do you know what you're talking about, do you know what the situation in the EU is today when at least it's about enlargement. It's just amazing how much elemental information you don't have. You're talking about the EU as if it's a 2000 structure, as if it's not moving. In 12 years enough has happened in the Union that Serbia has the right to ask this question that I am telling you about. That's why my second question is the following, and I'd like to ask you to concentrate if you think you can answer me. Will the government launch a parliamentary debate on this issue -- how to join the European Union, with which instruments, with which aim, is it possible to enter the EU and is it possible to achieve this ultimate goal? We really need to have a whole day's debate and I'm asking you to answer that question, if she's going to do it. Here's the thing. Serbia's government today, as well as the previous government, acts by reaction. It acts by a passive response to everything the EU requires. My first question concerned the government starting to work actively, to first look at what is happening in the country itself, in this country in the EU, and then I am sure that it would draw conclusions about changing that policy. As things happen, I have the impression that there is only one motivational reason for this time Serbia in the EU, which is fear. You are actually afraid that the EU is not sanctioning Serbia if it raises some issue regarding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which, by the way, has not yet come into force. Don't be afraid, they don't sit there but they do, they're people like our people. Try it, but first come up with a whole strategy, because that's the only way you can be a credible talker to dark officials. I'm sure the Union would activate far more important factors and people to talk about on such a subject than those it activates now. Because these people who are working now are one of the EU's bureaucratic gloves that keep Serbia in the state it is in, which is which maintains permanent control over Serbia, and does not help it in that path to the Union at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9303	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9304	You know what, when I hear you talking against the EU, I want to support it. Why? Because I don't think that's principled. That was not the basis of our policy with which you came to power. You, to remind you, have re-membered Serbia after 2000. Was that in our national and state interest? You, to remind you, have amnested Albanian separatists and terrorists and released them from Serbian prisons. You, to remind you, have handed Milosevic over to the UN tribunal against the constitution, and now you are addressing the Constitutional Court. You extradited against the constitution, because there was no law of co-operation with The Hague tribunal at the time. If you're talking about fear, how did you react in March 2004 when it began again with the Serbians in Kosovo and Metohija? How did you react when independence was declared? If you didn't have that fear, why was the culmination of our activities being the exorcism of ambassadors and the burning of foreign embassies? You think that's how we protected Serbian national and state interests? We didn't. (No, they wrote me here to teach the political system of the EU. Okay, I'm sorry. ) It seems to me that your children have worked in our mission to the EU. Wait, one and now. If so, return him to Serbia. Don't do that the way it is? You said four years ago you wouldn't drink coffee with me. I'm not telling you, I'm just telling you, be honest with this people. By stopping relations and negotiations with the EU, we will harm our people and our children, perhaps not yours, because they will probably continue to work there, but much more, those stories that relate to certain general things. We now have a situation here, you know, I'm the first against it and I always said we wouldn't be in the EU if they asked us to give up our interest. You're exaggerating him! You're exaggerating him because of that, because here absolutely, you've changed your policy, you haven't won the election. I've never been a Eurofanatic, against it, I've always criticized it, but don't criticize me now, for meeting Thaci, and you forget that you've been negotiating with Thaci in 2006. years, or I don't know which years, that he was in Rambuye, you forget that your leaders are DOS, even one of them kissing the hands of Madeline Albright, to be more cultural. It was your coalition that brought Milosevic down. From your point of view, you probably thought we'd taken him down, and you freed those who bombed Serbia, because you withdrew the verdicts where they were all sentenced to prison sentences, and you received them first, Solana, after they arrived, why didn't you arrest them? Is that right, why you didn't arrest them when the courts made those decisions, you now remembered that you were against the EU, and you led the country to this which you won on October 5th, that today, we are away from the EU, but that we have come to a false dilemma, only this people to give up the EU, Kosovo will come back to us again. No, that's what we have to fight for and tell this people, whether we're going to fight or not, by political means, in bar circles, in parlour debates, on round tables or among those people at KIM, so if we need any other means. You suffer the consequences of your actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9305	The word has Free Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9306	Mr. Prime Minister, you should take a look at this House's Rules of Procedure, although I assume you know him. You have to answer our questions, and do you remember the questions I asked you? If you remember, why didn't you answer him? Why, to the question that is brief and clear, and it has been said whether the Assembly will discuss it, you are calling on the tips of the past and harassing yourself and the government and the MPs and the viewers, if they are watching, with some topics that are not the subject of today's debate, they are all legitimate, but they are being subject to the agenda in this House. This is what is startling and I personally think that the entire government is ashamed of your response, simply because the topic is current and very important to this Parliament, no matter what anyone thinks about it. Look at the stenogram that's been talked about. You talked about everything that occurred to you, everything that lies on your heart, on your soul. You've solved one simple question to get back at whoever asked the question, with a personal attitude, and we have nothing personal between us, we're doing government work here. I'm in Parliament, and you're in government. Why is that? Because you can't answer the question, and that's the truth here. This question could be answered within two or five minutes, anyway. You had before the whole public opinion of Serbia to do so. It's not a trivial question, it's a question of our future, and whoever thinks, let them argue in this assembly. No, you didn't make a single argument, but you pulled some tips out of the dark past and you shouldn't do that. I was reminded of your statement in 1992, in the way the Assembly worked at the time, and I am amazed at the fact that I have listened to your steps before, on these occasions when you did not answer questions. Now you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9307	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9308	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everyone has the right to express their political position in one or another sense, in a negative or positive way, I have the right, and as an introduction to the question that I will ask, I believe that I will get concrete answers, because I think that this government is knowingly responsible for leading Serbia and one of the policies it sees before it as rarely that in the last 20 years. She's so guided and such harmony exists in her. It is not just my opinion or the opinion of this parliamentary group from which I speak, it is the opinion of most MPs in this House and that is the opinion of most people in Serbia. My question is not political, it's related, and I'm going to ask Mr. Minister of Business and Finance, I think he could answer, the Zaguvica municipality is one of the poorest and least developed and has a very modest budget. In her budget, she allocated 19 million this year in the name of the compensation for the seized, and the missing agricultural land, based on judicial and executive judgments. The municipal bill is daily in the blockade and regardless of the level of the inflow, 50% is always taken away by the municipality, and today, for example, six million have gone for these needs. On the same basis, in 2013, 26 million are expected to go to meet these needs. I'm asking if it's possible for a Republic level to help these local self-governments, specifically, Frogs. The second question concerns the implementation of projects of educational institutions within what is an improvement in energy efficiency, which has been approved by the Environmental Protection Fund, where we have that some projects have been implemented, as the elementary school of "Save" from Požarec, the situations have been handed over, all papers, whether they will be charged, this is about Minister Zorana Mihajlović and you, Mr Minister. More projects of some schools from the same fund that aren't realised, will they be realised next year?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9309	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9310	Of course, in the case of undeveloped municipalities, it is possible to explain the request for the current budget reserve and to refer it to the Ministry of Finance, and, if it is justified requests, we approve such requests. This applies to every municipality in Serbia, including the Municipality of Zagubica, so it is a proposal to see exactly what it is, to see what the revenues are, what our expenditures are, and that for these things that are judgments, which reduce the budget, you should address for support in view of the current budget reserve. Otherwise, we're thinking about how to further change the structure of the transfer of least developed municipalities in the next period, to strengthen the transfers of those least developed municipalities, but at that point we can intervene from the current budget reserve, so please ask us to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9311	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9312	Regarding energy efficiency projects and all that has been financed from the Environment Fund, of course everything that has valid documentation, complete reports that the jobs have been completed, of course, will be settled next year. We've been working for two months to collect documentation that isn't complete in projects. There are about 1400 contracts that are concluded in the fund itself. In particular, for you, since you have already indicated what project it is, certainly if the documentation is complete, it will be completed, but we will also send you official information.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9313	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9314	Gentlemen Ministers, I am pleased with the answer and I hope everyone is also interested in Braničevsky County, which concerns this issue, I believe from other municipalities across Serbia, which have these problems, that they are also satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9315	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister of Government, the Presidency, I will ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, because I have the impression that this may be the only chance that he really pretends to be Prime Minister, since apparently for all that...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9317	Mrs. Kolundjia, I beg you not to speak in such a dictionary in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9318	All right, I'm sorry. So, this is the only or rare opportunity for him to be Prime Minister and so I'm going to ask the Prime Minister a question, risking, of course, that as with other MPs, the answer might be a little too personal. What is the essence of my question, I can share the satisfaction of the massive transformation that has taken place among some political parties that are now the government of the Republic of Serbia. I can say that Serbian citizens can also be satisfied with the fact that this transformation has occurred so that the change that is now leading this government and the goal that this government has set is the goal that we deeply believe is of general interest to the citizens of Serbia. What's the problem is that some old habits haven't changed. The fact that after six months it became quite obvious that everything that is constitutionally defined and constitutionally competent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, was all removed from those places where it should be, as a rule, indicates a serious disturbance in society that could have very far-reaching consequences. If the constitution provides for the government to establish and run politics, then it is assumed that one important issue, such as the policy issue towards Kosovo, is not written in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, but written in the government. So, if Sanitary Merchants are already writing in the cabinet, then the assumption is that consent is reached in the government without the official Prime Minister, who contests the same platform and thus, in our deep confidence, challenges the possible position of the Republic of Serbia in the negotiations being conducted. As we have often repeated earlier, the Democratic Party supports the government's efforts to resolve all issues through negotiations and we remain consistent with that stance. What is worrying is that the platform on this issue is being created in one place, instead of being created in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for policymaking and policymaking by the Constitution. At the same time, messages are coming from that government that question that same platform. So, the question for the prime minister, does he feel responsible for not acting as Prime Minister with the Constitution given the powers that belong to the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9319	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9320	I know, I can't even answer now, I guess. When I answer, everyone gets mad at me for being sharp. When I'm attacked and criticized, everything's fine. I talked about this a little while ago, and I've been plowing with Mr Samardzic, because in recent weeks I've witnessed various gatherings, where people from that party participated, where they called the most ugly names of me and the President of the Republic, the Deputy Prime Minister, because of Kosovo's policy. That's why I said no, I just reminded myself of some things, not the dark past. I don't know what's out of all that dark, except this part that's been in recent years. In any case, it's the same now that Mrs. Kolundjia is saying it. She's talking about transformations now. I have to tell you that I met Hope in the 1990s with Nebojsa Covic in the SPS, right? I don't know how or what happened to those transformations, but eventually she became head of the DS Parliament Club. I welcome those transformations, except she's gone in the wrong direction, but nothing personal. I just have to remind you, you know what, it really seems funny when you DS are criticizing someone now, is the authoritative Prime Minister? What are you saying, that Mirko Cvetkovic was the real Prime Minister? What are you saying, that the Kosovo policy was written in Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet? Is that what you're saying? That's why I think you are, which is why you'd say, "Professor." Samardzic – missed the topic. As for that, thank you for supporting me to be a stronger prime minister, and don't be afraid of it. There are no conflicts between the Serbian government and the president of the Republic over the Kosovo issue. There is a dialogue on how to achieve what we think should be our goals. That's completely legitimate. As I said, it is our common agreement that the Serbian Government and the President of the Republic prepare this resolution, which will go to parliament. It will be a joint session of the Government and the President of the Republic. I will also remind the next thing, the executive authority is the government of the Republic of Serbia, but the president of Serbia also has part of the executive authority. The executive power in Serbia is buffalo, so it has two parts and each should do its part of the job. That is why there is absolutely no difference in the Serbian government on the issue, on the contrary. No decision in the Serbian government has been made by revote, all decisions have been made unanimously and no phone session of the government has been held. I'm not saying and I don't think this government is the best in Serbia's history, but I think we'll do everything we know and we can to help the state and the people get through this difficult period that we're in. Of course, I accept all the criticism. It's legitimate for everyone to express their opinion, I just have to react when it comes to some things that aren't principled. Let me be sharp in that. Polemics must be the essence of politics. I'll never take a rock and throw it at you. Maybe it's a word that's out of line, but there's someone to convince, not just win. I'll do my best to cultivate a spirit of tolerance. After all, no one has respected the National Assembly more than this Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm convinced because I've been an MP since 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9321	Thank you, Prime Minister. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9322	Mr. Dacic, it is truly amazing that you as Prime Minister are descending to this level of debate. You know very well that I was never a member of the SPS. For me, it's personal and every other insult that anyone says I am. So if you didn't have any stronger arguments to disqualify my arguments, I don't think you should have allowed yourself, as far as I'm concerned, I'm fine, to descend to such a low personal level, indeed. What is the essence of my question is that the issue of the platform and the issue of politics on Kosovo, for which every citizen in this country is interested in the way it is now taking place in the institutions, were they competent or not competent, caused serious damage to Serbia's position in the negotiations, because if a platform emerges from the Serbian presidency, and then it is attacked by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, disqualified parts of that platform, previously announced that the platform would go to the Assembly, and then it was said that there would be no platform in the Assembly, that all parts of the negotiations would be public, and then announced that some parts of that platform would still be secret. That is what you should be concerned about as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, because under the Constitution you are still, however you claim to be in harmony with all institutions, responsible for policymaking. You will, after all, be guilty of the results of that policy. It is therefore that the way this has been done so far is causing damage to both the country's international reputation and the country's negotiating position, damages and possible internal political consent to the platform, and for that, allow you to be responsible as Prime Minister. My question was essential to this process, and that's what you think you're doing to make this confusion that was created in the country and sent as the wrong picture into the world and can hardly be welcomed by our enemies or at least by those who don't support us, what are you going to do as someone who is responsible by the Constitution for pre-warning such things and not allow the processes to happen beyond the institutions that are responsible for it, or if they are already happening, that the whole world doesn't see it?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9323	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9324	This is what the kids would say, that you're messing with each other. You mentioned that we've been transformed. You've been saying that on the escalator. When I remind you of something, it turns out you're offended. Please, I don't know if you were a member of the SPS, but I saw you at the SPS. I don't know what you were doing with Nebojsa Covic? Isn't that right, Mr. Petronievich? The democratic alternative is to continue who knows when. This was when Nebojsa Covic was president of the city's SPS board. What you've just said before, I don't take it for evil, it's just a matter of work. There's no need to insult yourself, nor do I want to insult you. But you know what? You can't have the right to insult someone without expecting someone to answer. This is a fight. Are we in the arena here or where we are? Why fight? Lose? Even in politics towards Kosovo, I don't think we need honorary defeats and high and unachievable goals, but we need results. We need victories in all segments. When it comes to what you said, you remember President Tadic talking about four of his principles. Were those the principles of the Serbian government or his? Do you think the Serbian government has ever pleaded to that? Do you think I've ever seen those four principles as deputy prime minister? I don't know if the Prime Minister saw that one. Secondly, do you remember when we changed the text of the resolution at the UN General Assembly overnight? Do you think the Government of the Republic of Serbia did it? How are you not ashamed to talk like that now that you've been through all this and had it in yours? I went through the same thing with Milosevic. Don't have any dilemmas. Don't comment on something like that now, and it was the same a few months ago. You know what, I finally asked to see those four principles. This was discussed and presented as a state proposal. You here today have a request to renegotiate to the UN. How can they return to the UN when Serbia wrote a resolution to the UN General Assembly, where it suggested that this be done with the EU's intermediation? Is that an important decision for this country? Is that a principle and a concrete decision of foreign policy? Is that the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Has the text and the decision been made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Never. Not to talk about parliament. That's why I don't think it's right for you to say that. And if there are conflicts, what if there are different opinions? I'm not SNS. So what if there's some thinking about some questions? Where everyone thinks the same thing, no one thinks much. My goal is to think a lot about these problems we're in. This document was not the subject of the president's cabinet. That's been discussed since August of the month. That's what we've all been involved in. Are there different opinions? There were different opinions. About what? There is no need to interrupt negotiations technically with the EU. Why? Because we think it's a direct decision that we have no further chance of getting a date for starting negotiations. In all of this, we have agreed to be tactful and that this part is simply interpreted in such a way as to enable us to achieve our goals without consequences for our relations with the EU. So I absolutely refuse that there are any misunderstandings in essential issues, and are there different opinions? Well, there are. It's normal to exist. That is why there are different authorities and legislative and executive and judicial authorities and there is a President of the Republic, there is a Government, there are political parties. We're not going to be developing one-brains here now, are we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9325	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9326	Mr. Prime Minister, no matter how many times you here have repeated that it has not been seen in public that there is something wrong with that platform when it comes to the relationship of the President of the Republic and of the Government, we are all witnessing that this has unfortunately been seen. If you are angry and offended when someone asks you what you're going to do to overcome this problem, because the question that this platform is dealing with is terribly important for everyone, you move on to your personal field, make up, accuse and try this assembly and make this session really, I apologize to the president, the circus. So we have a legitimate right to ask you. It is clear that the public is alarmed by the fact that the Kosovo policy has created a problem seen as a problem between the two institutions of government. If you think we can't ask you, then that's another thing. Then tell us nicely, so that we know how you imagine a parliamentary system, democracy, how you imagine your role, the role of the government, the role of Parliament, and how you imagine your relationship with the MPs. You have no reason to reach out for personal insults, making up things and accusing people of something that isn't true. I don't think I can justify my past to you. You have enough reason to worry about how you'll justify your past.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9327	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9328	Dear Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, I asked the government a question in this House two months ago that I didn't get an answer until today. After I've sent him to the government, not some resolute ministry, I'll do it again. In fact, two months ago, I asked if a review of the privatisations in question would also review the criminal privatisation of Nisal, I would like to remind you that this company was one of the most successful companies before privatisation, in a metal complex, and what will the government do to protect the rights of minority shareholders in the company? This company is getting worse after privatisation, so it's high time for the government to do something about it, and now I'm going to address that question to the Minister of Business and Finance, hoping to get an answer to that question. My questions today, hoping that the prime minister will not answer so sharply, are addressed to ministries whose ministers are not here today, but I will address the prime minister. The first question concerns the Ministry of Culture and Information, as regards announcements of the shut-down of television, one of the two regional televisions that exist today in Nis. In the last two months, two regional televisions have been shut down in Nis. Before that, Radio Nis was shut down, a station that had a tradition for more than six decades. The situation in the media, throughout southern Serbia, is catastrophic. It announces the adoption of a set of media laws that predict the exit of the state from the media. We'll have a situation where the state is funding the first, second channel RTS, Studio B, Radio 202, Radio Yugoslavia, the first, second channel of RTV, while southern Belgrade citizens will pay a television subscription, but will not have their own television, for example, in Kragujevac or Nis. The Vojvodina Radio Television, which has two million potential viewers, which employs more than 1,500 people, while six regional public services in central Serbia, envisioned by the media strategy, would have four million potential viewers, less than 400 workers and all together a budget 10 times lower than the New Sad Regional Public Service. Why would Novi Sad have two TV channels, with more than 1,500 employees, and is not allowed in Nis to have "Low TV" as a regional public service, with 90 employees and whose survival of their signature requires more than 35,000 citizens, who have been handed over to this Assembly. As two Radio Belgrade channels were found to survive, Radio Studio B, Radio 202, two Radio Novi Sad channels, and only there was no money for Radio Nis, which had less than 15 employees. By how long will at least in the media view, southern Serbian citizens be second-class citizens? How long has the National Television, the National Public Service from Nis not been functioning, and when did RTS have the last live involvement from Nis? (President: Time. ) Will the year of the Milan edict, Nis which is the center of the celebration, run out of television?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9329	You will receive a written reply from the Ministry of Culture and Information. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9330	Thank you, Mr. President. Last month, Prime Minister Ilic, on the issue of the Vranj MPs, said that the construction of the Presevo-Bujanovac stock, the highway part does not end because of legal and property problems. I have repeatedly asked Minister Mrkonjic about this subject, three years ago, and I have not received an answer. The fact is that on the ground almost four years after the opening ceremony, work is still being done in the old lane, because there are quite constructions. Since it's an old tape, there's never been a legal-property problem. The question is when will it definitely end, because I think Corridor 10 in that section has a appendix? There's absolutely no normal traffic going on there, especially at this time. Imagine those moving obstacles in the middle of the asphalt tape, what kind of traffic could happen here? Then, since this Corridor 10 is at stake, I would continue with a question addressed to the Prime Minister about the decision of the federal government since 2005, on the opening of three border crossings on Presevo territory and one on the territory of the Shop. In the territory of the Shop two years ago it was opened, and no border crossing has been opened in Presevo. Neither is the main one that connects all Bujanovac, Presevo with Lipkov and Kumanov in Macedonia. Still villages that are within a distance can't communicate normally. I think it's most appropriate for the Prime Minister to answer this question. Our students studying at Macedonian universities have been having serious problems lately, as they return from border crossings, although they have passports. I ask them for a visa to stay, and there are problems that they must have that visa for stay at the Macedonian Embassy in Belgrade, which is nearly 400km away. That's where they come back a couple of times. It costs only for people's residence, which costs 300 euros each. I'm looking for an explanation of what can and can be done in that plan, so there won't be any problems like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9331	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9332	I must apologize to Mr. Riza Halimi and the citizens of southern Serbia, it is true, in part, what Mr. Ilic replied. Secondly, it's true we didn't have enough resources to get this job done. According to the current state, we'll finish it in the next four months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9333	The word has Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9334	I didn't get Mr. Halimi very well. Who's he referring to? The border crossing regime with Macedonia is much easier. They don't even need passports, just ID cards. If there are any problems, I call on him, since we have been working on these problems together for many years to solve these problems, if there are any ambiguities about the application of all these agreements and agreements, international and those agreed in this dialogue in Brussels, concerning Kosovo and Metohija. Just as some agreements concern Serbs, they concern Albanians, because there is a problem in communication and it is not the interest of Serbs or Albanians to see it as a border, as an administrative border. We're ready to really do everything we have as a problem, define and solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9335	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9336	This obstacle and the problem I just presented concerns students who stay one school year, and every weekend they come back. They are asked for a residence visa, not an entrance. That's what you're looking for at the border crossing, and that's the problem. (Ivica Dacic, from the place: Where is it sought? ) At the Macedonian border, border police return our students and cannot enter Macedonia, if they do not have that residence visa, and has a regular passport or ID card, there is a problem. I've also asked these famous border crossings. We can call them small-time crossings, whatever you want. I've heard very well Mr. Balint's answer about these relations with Hungary. I have asked here several times, when the budget was adopted, why only with Macedonia in the position of the budget there is no IPA programme of cross-border EU co-operation. In this context, we also have this situation that there are no small-scale crossings since 2005, even though a decision has been made, and people need to wait over the summer for hours to go through the main crossing. In the context of freedom of movement, I would continue with problems also in relation to Kosovo. The Brussels Free Movement Agreement does not cover either Presevo or Bear. In our part, it's only Bujanovac, just Conchu and it's causing huge problems. I absolutely don't see what's causing these crossings that are quite mass, especially Presevo, are not foreseen by this agreement. What's to be done to get rid of it? Next, those big-time taxes again. I ask the question – is there a similar practice anywhere in the world, that we now now have a weekly 20 euros from 105 euros? To go to Gjilan or return, it must be paid 20 euros a week. Where's that in the world? It's going to be a year on January 1st. The promise was still in January last year that it would be resolved, but there is no solution. Now I don't see where the problem is that finally, when we talk so much about this freedom of movement, so in that part, I think those problems, too, that call for more urgent solutions, because they concern the everyday lives of citizens. Imagine, 80 euros a month someone who is not even employed or who has a salary of 200 euros. That's disastrous.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9337	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9338	Dear President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, first, Mr Dacic, to apologize. I just threw it out of place that Milosevic's governments had more support than she had. I thought that they had a number of MPs or MPs in parliament, and that they did not end in glory and that you today in your work, when you are constantly listing the problems and delusions of the past, which you are facing, are mostly solving these problems that were originally created in those years when Milosevic's governments in different combinations had enormous support in parliament, and in the first one in 1990, it seems to me, the support of nearly 200 MPs. So, that number didn't always measure the quality and performance of work, and neither did the fact that the government passed, you talked a lot about it in the campaign, you endured the entire mandate, obviously it wasn't the rapper of its success. Otherwise, this divorce case, which has been going on for five months between you and the other members of the ruling coalition that were in the last government, would not seem so sad and disgusting to the last government. I hope I didn't inspire you by mentioning Milosevic to mention him this much in your speeches, because I think you're doing it in an unfair way. It's not my place to defend Milosevic, but I don't think it's right for you to accuse the DSS of handing over Milosevic. They opposed all forces to hand over Milosevic. We extradited him, handed him over to Mladjan Dinkic, Rasim Ljajic's party and some other parties that are sitting with you in the government today, and I'm sure they would do it today, as we would have done today. This allowed you to start reforming the SPS afterwards and make the growth that you are so proud of today. Otherwise, it is not true that Milosevic was arrested, and then delivered to the contrary to the Constitution. He was extradited exactly in accordance with the Constitution, which he tried to build on his scale in 1990. Finally, if I were you, I wouldn't insist so much on strict respect for the Constitution. I'm afraid someone could very quickly accuse you of coming out of the constitution when you conduct Kosovo negotiations. The Liberal Democratic Party will never do that. Just make sure one of your...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9339	Mr. Djuric, I'm just asking you to ask a clearly formulated question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because you have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9340	I wouldn't go into your cognitive abilities if you could understand the clarity of the question. Let me speak for five minutes and ask a question. So, once again, make sure you don't get stabbed in the back by your current coalition partners. Are we going to do specific questions? Can you, as Prime Minister, in any way control and order the impossible Vuk Jeremic, who falsely presents himself as President of the world, which is, as far as I know, other than being an MP, and has not set foot in this parliament since election day, in some way also as a government official, special adviser to the foreign minister, and is funded by what he is doing from Serbia's budget? What you are accusing today of is DSS, some other parties, when they speak against Europe, against Serbia's integration in a much worse, more brutal and more primitive way every day, Vuk Jeremic is doing in his behaviour, no matter where he is at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9341	Time. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9342	When we talk about the DSS, I really don't attack them for anything. I am not attacking the view that we should end European integration. It's a completely legitimate attitude. I'm responding to the accusations that came in the past weeks, which they talked about, even the gatherings were organized at the Sava Center, where they said this was a traitor government, etc. Everyone has the right to speak their mind. I didn't mention the DSS delivered Milosevic. I was talking about that time. The federal constitutional court, if you remember, made a solution to whether it was done in accordance with the law, whether there was a law or not, whether it was done or not. But that's the past, I don't want to go back on that subject. What I think next period should be practically common to all of us, is that we try to find a solution to all the burning problems, which will be able to take us a few steps forward. I really think we can have the consent of most political parties. It's harder than saying, "We fight, we polarize, and it's not in the Assembly." I don't know if in any way you expect me to really answer these questions right now or to express my own position. You know very well that the Serbian government is acting on a clear principle, which is that the government is leading internal and foreign policy. However, we are not in charge of the UN General Assembly, so that I could not, at least for now, perhaps in the next amendments to the Constitution and put it as jurisdiction. What I think is good is that we try to use what Vuk Jeremic is elected to this place for our national and national policy, to use, to make it good plus, add to what Serbia is doing. For that, it is necessary and that there is agreement, coordination, consultation, and whether or not he will return the mandate, I would really not enter into these internal relations with the DS, nor would that be absolutely my intention. After all, this Assembly has also fought to ensure that mandates belong to individuals rather than to political parties. But I think it would be my turn to say, no matter what anyone thinks of Vuk Jeremic, it is also good for Serbia to be a Serbian citizen, a former foreign minister, as president of the UN General Assembly. I think that, regardless of the party differences, we should support that function as it performs the best it can, because it will be both a mirror and an interest throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9343	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9344	I don't care if Vuk Jeremic returns the DS mandate, I don't care at all, I care about you. Somehow I think it's harder for you to go to Brussels in a few weeks, to reach difficult agreements, to torture yourself, and to have Vuk Jeremic tell the story of the next year in Prizren. Do you think what he's doing is helping you or getting back at you, Mr. Dacic, to improve your position, to make it easier for you? I don't care what he's doing in the DS, I want to know what he's doing as a person, person, citizen of Serbia, who was partly paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Here are some specific questions. You mentioned your exposés. I listened to him and then carefully, a little later I read him and one of the important points is – our strategic goal is to create a knowledge-based society. I ask you and Mr. Mrkonjic, who I think is in charge of resolutely – what exactly qualifications and fantastic knowledge of Mr. Dragoljub Simonovic, the new director of Železnica, motivated you to give him the opportunity to be the director of a system that has 18,500 employees? It was difficult to find a biography of Mr Simonovic, however, he has already started his interviews today and says that the third degree of study ended at the Faculty of Business Studies in Banjaluca, and the fourth grade at the Faculty of Business. All of it since 2008. On what criteria did you choose Mr Simonovic? Did you know that his decision on the Serbian Railway site says Dragoljub Simonovic Sima is elected? Is it serious for you to run the country? In the end, it is, as you said, a bicep in Serbia. To explain to people who haven't studied law or political science, that means two heads, but that doesn't exactly give the President of the Republic the right to make a coup. I don't know if, Mr. Dacic, you noticed today's interview, or Mr. Nikolic's statement as president of the Republic, as the second head of that bicep executive, signed the Law on Public Enterprises, which said it was completely irrelevant whether the director of public enterprises would be appointed in competitions, or outside of them, or without them? It is also a slap to you as Prime Minister who you signed and sent to the Assembly of the Law on Public Enterprises, Mr Dinkic, who has been here for days, with the best will, however due to coalition peace, was not allowed to say which parties were against the departement, or the call of competitions. Do you think you'll be able to realize what you predicted in your exposé? Will you be able to share that justice that you so often talk about, that the government must not live too well when the people live hard, in a situation where you name a person of such miserable qualifications as the director of the Serbian Railways, a company that receives 130m euros in annual subsidies and has over a billion euros in losses? How do those other citizens of Serbia feel, the few hundred thousand who have lost their jobs? Or, how does every normal student in this country feel, Mr. Obradovic is there, from a private or state university, when you humiliate them like this, when you place the face of such qualifications as the director of the Serbian Railways? Milosevic would never do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9345	Time. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9346	Since there are always new and new issues, what has been regulated and the way it is foreseen by the law that has been adopted here, it will certainly be implemented. So there's no need for any further clarifications. Of course, anyone can have their opinions on specific proposals, which is normal. Most importantly, there is a system law that regulates this area. You've asked some other questions, and if I start answering all the questions now, then I can't answer your questions, and it's better if I don't answer you now, I'll see you next month when there's a question of MPs. Of course, we can communicate daily. It is not easy to run a government where there are many political parties and sometimes you are unable to gain insight into everything that exists as a government decision at different levels. I think this is a fundamental and important question, systemically, which has been regulated by our coalition agreement and there is no reason why this one principle should not be respected, the principle of knowledge and rationality, and the party's belonging not to be decisive. (Bojan Đurić, from the place: Does the Wolf help or get away?) The Wolf of Jeremiah? If you're talking about Prizren and what you said, you know what, there are peoples who talk every year – see you next year in Constantinople. Some who have kept speaking in every speech – besides, Cartagena should be destroyed, etc. I don't think it can hurt Serbia's position much, because Vuk Jeremic, at this point, does not represent Serbia's foreign policy. He determines neither the government nor the water. It is his opinion as a man who is a National MP and has been elected president of the UN General Assembly. Whether someone agrees with it now or not – I would love to, since I was born in Prizren.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9347	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9348	See, that's what I'm saying. It seems that Mr. Jeremic is convinced that he is leading the foreign policy of this country and this government. Today he's had meetings in Beijing and I see that I'm talking about that his job is to establish excellent relations with the new young leaders of the Communist Party of China and your government. I think he's doing your job or the job of the foreign minister, so that's all I care about. The second thing is not so hard to answer the question – do you think that a person named Dragoljub Simonovic, who has the qualifications I have listed, deserves to be the director of the Serbian Railway Company by one standard? About how to tell you, it's not a good enough explanation that you didn't know about it. This Assembly of Shareholders is appointed by the Government and its president is Zoran Angelkovic. You'll remember Zoran Angelkovic, I think he's still an SPS official. I fully understand your response that you cannot control all relations in the coalition and the functioning of the coalition government. You were angry when someone here told you at first that you might not be the president at full capacity and that maybe you should consider resigning. I followed closely, when you responded afterwards, who applauded. Mostly applauded by the SPS, the SNS did not, and it seems to me that DSS MPs hoped that somehow in the future you would either resign or be replaced and that the government would have a different structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9349	The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9350	President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, the question I want to ask concerns public agencies. As Minister Selakovic, who is also in charge of the affairs of the state administration, is absent, I refer this issue to the Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic. Since 2005, when the Law on Public Agencys was adopted, a large number of these independent bodies have been established. What confuses citizens is the way agencies are set up, their number, competences and funding. The fact is that agencies are set up by special laws and government acts. Some of them are independent, while other agencies function as ministry bodies. The classification of all these agencies has not been precisely established today and this further confuses both citizens and users of services, including the state administration itself. I think it would be more than appropriate to form some kind of unique database on all existing agencies and other regulatory bodies for at least two reasons. First, to finally establish the exact number of all regulatory and independent bodies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, to stop manipulations on this subject and to have insight into information, to remove the delusion that there are a large number of agencies in Serbia with a lot of employees, who have high salaries and do nothing. On the contrary, most of the established agencies, as the entire government is known, have very significant powers. Many have been established to coordinate with EU liquids. For these reasons, and in order to eliminate many problems and prejudices regarding public agencies and other independent regulatory bodies, I ask you a question – does the Serbian Government, or the competent ministry, plan to create a single register of all agencies in the coming period, based on how to establish, jurisdiction, ways of financing, the number of employees and the level of income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9351	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9352	Some agencies have been shut down. Some are connected. Others are being discussed because it is not easy to make a decision about these things at the moment, or without prior discussion and consultation. I'll give you an example. We made a decision at a cabinet session and then immediately wrote a letter from the EU, and the first one on the list immediately challenged why we abolished it. It should be careful and careful that someone does not interpret that Serbia does not respect something that is European, I would not call liquids, Susana says - more recommendations. There's some liquids. There are some recommendations. What the liquids are, I don't think there should be any dilemma about it, and what the recommendations are, which sometimes depends on the individual expert who was responsible for this topic, whether there was money or there was no money for that funding and on who participated in the realization of these projects, it should be well analysed and seen how much of it can be abolished, and how much, I say, to find another way to regulate this area without it being any particular body, such as the agency. Anyway, what you suggested, I think it's a good idea to make a good proposal. When we came to this situation to discuss, remember that it was at the beginning of the mandate, we had practically organisational problems. Who really is in charge of Serbia, and who actually has a list of all the bodies that exist? Very often we have barely come to the fact that all the bodies in Serbia exist, including this agency. Therefore, this proposal for a register is good to make a record of what all of these independent bodies, regulatory bodies and what might have to leave behind, what should be abolished without getting any more damage than would be the damage of the part being financed from Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9353	National MP Stefana Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9354	Just to thank the Prime Minister. It was my intention to initiate through this question perhaps the formation of that database. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9355	Thank you. National MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9356	Mr. President-in-Office, Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I'm going to return a little culture to this House through a parliamentary matter. I am sorry that there is no Minister Bratislav Petkovic, because I intended to thank him personally because my previous parliamentary question was delivered by the ministry before the legal deadline expired, very quickly and effectively, although no answer was fully given, but I would not regret it. I'll send a written request for that answer to be completed. This time I would ask the competent Ministry of Culture and Minister Petkovic – why is the Law on Culture not applied in an area that provides for the selection of cultural institute directors in public competitions? Now Mr. Dacic said about the question that was raised about the selection of directors in public enterprises that it was a good thing that we passed one system law, that it would be applied when it comes to public enterprises. Maybe I have an understanding somewhere - we just passed that law and should probably do some sublegal act, name commissions, etc. The Culture Act was passed in August 2009. Of the 26 cultural institutions set up by the RS government in all of them, the directors have long expired their mandates or have served as officials. There is no single reason not to apply the Law on Culture to discuss public competitions. There is no single reason for the new government and in this area to do what it does and in the field of public enterprises, to appoint the performers of the culture institutions and at least what has been done so far has been done solely by party principle. The new officials do not hide, but boast of their party belongings. I could say for some that they're not party, they're more multiparty, because I remember them from a time when they were in some other parties and past and present coalitions. They changed the parties, but they stayed in those parties that were in power and they got the right seats, I guess, as a reward for that. In addition to not asking public competitions in this area or in public enterprises, although I am aware that the legal acts of all cultural institutions are in line with the new law, the question is when will the Serbian Ministry of Culture and Government finally adopt all the necessary sublaws, so that this law can finally be applied? Because we don't have sublaws, we have a lot of problems in practice. We have problems in what makes everyday life in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9357	You will receive an answer from the Ministry of Culture in writing. MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9358	Mr. President, gentlemen ministers, thank you for being here as always on the last Thursday. It's a really good sign, and I think it's a good communication between the government and the MPs. Two questions I would like to ask are actually initiated by today's session of the Security Control Committee, which I chaired, which held a meeting with the independent state bodies, the DRI representative, the Public Information Commissioner and the Protection of Personality Data and the Citizens' Protector or the Manchester. The Security Control Committee has shown this initiative that in a partnership relationship with independent state bodies, which are independent in their work, but which are also given a mandate in this assembly and we are at the same job and we are also responsible for the citizens and this Parliament. In this partnership relationship, we expressed our desire for co-operation, and then I realized something I didn't know, and I want to ask the government a question. All three independent state institutions dealing with serious issues and which should primarily improve the position of Serbia's citizens have one incredible problem for me, which is inadequate work space. They do not complain so much about the budgets allocated to their work, although numerous representations of citizens and serious problems they are faced with and where they are trying to help citizens, but they are unable to fill even a sufficient number of people, human resources needed to realise their plans, which, I repeat, are of interest to the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, if you would be kind enough to ask MPs to refrain from speaking while the MP asks a question. Mr. President, I'm speaking to you. Thank you. I am interested in whether there is any plan and the possibility for the government to help resolve the spatial capacity of these independent state bodies in an adequate way, given that an increasing number of citizens relying on the work of independent state bodies and DRIs, and trustees, as well as citizens' protectors. In order for these institutions to adequately respond to their tasks and to achieve results, they must be deprived of the care of such technical matters. The second question is addressed to Minister Ljajic and concerns the Regulation on technical requirements for devices and software support for the legal interception of electronic communications and the retention of electronic communications data. There's a big problem. Therefore, the supervision of the work of telecommunications operators is very difficult and almost impossible, since they do not apply the obligations laid down in Article 127. The e-communication law. This means that no one controls them and that it is those who can uninterruptedly and illegally intercept citizens' communication and do not fulfil their legal obligations to state authorities, which, in my opinion, threatens the national security of the Republic of Serbia and citizens. So I want to know what's going on with this rulebook. I speak as president of the Security Control Committee. This is about the SBB, which has about 700,000 users, Eunet, Veratine. I'll get all the information on that, if there's a will to solve it. I expect there must be a will to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9359	Thank you. Government officials have informed me that they will answer your question in writing. The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9360	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I am among those who believe that at the end of each calendar year, every responsible government should sum up results. What may be even more important, every responsible government must have a plan and programme, it must have some vision, at least for next year, or have a vision of what it will do in that year. I refer my first question to the prime minister and it concerns exactly the plan and the programme, the vision of employment and the creation of new jobs. I don't think I need to remind anyone here that every fourth citizen in Serbia is unemployed, that the social picture is completely catastrophic. Normally, I do not expect an answer – according to the Constitution and the law that the right to work is the most important human right, but I expect a concrete answer – will it be better for Serbian workers in 2013? The second question, which is no less important, I refer to Mr Dinkic and Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. Since 1 January 2013, a large number of workers employed in restructure companies will not receive that stamp, i.e. they will not have health insurance. Many people who are desperate and who don't know what to do since January 1st are coming to the unions daily. I have to, I certainly don't have to remind you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to say that people come from cancer, diabetics, people on dialysis. A few days ago in the factory hall of the IMR was a big problem, because one worker threatened suicide because he doesn't know what to do after January 1st, because he has a son, who is 17 years old, who goes on dialysis. This is one huge problem facing which the government of the Republic of Serbia, neither the union, nor civil society, nor anyone in this country can and can close their eyes. I know that since January 1st, the restructuring company has had to pay regular contributions at least two months. Minister Dinkic, I'm telling you right now, because I know confidently that the largest number of enterprises in restructuring will not be able to, because if it does, to pay for 63,000 employees. This way I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to truly understand this responsibly, that this is not my melodramaticism, but unfortunately I am with the people who are in this problem. (President: Time. Please, you've let it all go a little longer, and I have one more important question. (President: I've released you three and a half minutes. It's just the Smedereva Iron...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9361	You have three more minutes to ask an additional question. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9362	I'll try to answer you. We made a work plan for next year. In the first session of the government after the New Year, we will bring a programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises for liquidity loans. We have come up with a plan for those enterprises in restructuring that we know will not be able to carry out their obligation and to provide money for an overture of health books and to pay for them the contributions the Health Fund rightly requires. We know it's waiting for us and we've prepared those funds and we'll do it right after New Year's Eve. We're not gonna sit here and wait a year and a half for the period when the restructuring is lifted. We've made a plan and we've divided some 175 companies that are now in restructuring into four groups. There's one in which we think they can be state-owned, but self-sustainable. There's, first of all, RTB Bor, Petrochemy, military factories. We will keep them on state property, but we have a year and a half to make them able to pay everything – contributions, taxes, electricity, local fees, to be on the market as state-owned companies. How are we gonna do that? RTB Bor is doing it now, but we have to settle the debts of the past through the restructuring process. Petrochemia, we will invest together with NIS 60m euros to make them positive and restructure other debts. As for other companies, we have a plan not to wait for the problems to knock on our door in a year and a half, but for us to face problems. Does Serbia need a agricultural machine factory, such as IMT, IMR? We think we should, but the current IMT, the IMR, can't do that. We think that in urban urban areas, such as Novi Belgrade and Rakovica, not some serious factory can work, but that these workers have experience and ideas to save IMT and IMR by building a new factory with a tractor model to be bought on both domestic and foreign markets. A complete tractor will be produced in Serbia, except for the engine that will be "John Dirov". We'll make the combines again. Serbia used to make combines at the Dragon. Of course, in that segment that we can conquer and where we see the void. He also asks Mr. Zechariah Trnavcevic, at the beginning, if the government intends to take credit for irrigation. I would like to inform MP Trnavčević and the citizens that we are negotiating with the UAE government, that we will receive from their fund a favourable loan where one part would be used to clean up the existing channel network in Vojvodina. Also, in central Serbia, along Pomorava and Danube, for the development of warfare, vegetable and fruit production, and the second part to define farmers that they can buy watering equipment, plastic equipment, that is to raise the intensity of agricultural production and use that money to build up the demand that we are going to create, to produce irrigation equipment in some factories, such as "The First Five-year-old", which is also in restructuring and that will work shifts for this tractor. Also, let's try, since "Vojvod's Water" and also "Serbia's Water", they don't have a mechanism that's the right quality that they can clean up channels and dig up a secondary network to see if we can find a partial solution for October 14th from Kruševec and bring someone who would invest together, as we had with the flag tried to start that production. Also, in factories that have a border case, such as "Cables" from Jagodina, we will try to ask the question – why doesn't the EPS today buy Jagodina cables and buy them from other power plants? Is it bad quality? If so, do they have bad machines? If they have bad machines, let's buy them machines, make good cables. If the problem is the price of copper, let's see with RTB Bor if it can be adjusted. The idea is that, in some cases, we do not wait for the factory to restructure and offer only in a tender that we know in advance that maybe no one will report in the current state, but that we invest wherever there is any market perspective. As far as the Ironworks are concerned, it's probably the hardest case ever, just because of the market. Several ironworks have been closed in the world, one even in China, the baskets are closed, now Ahmetov, the Ukrainian has taken over and it is not easy to solve. (President: Time. The Russians asked for an extension of the tender for another two months. But I have to tell you honestly, we're also preparing a variant of "B." We can't be sure what's going to happen, because this tender has already been extended. We're looking into what the cost is, if the Russians didn't show up, if the state started this... (President: Time, Mr Dinkic. )......................................................................................................... What would that mean, and if it's not too expensive, we'll do it ourselves, if we have to, to save jobs and this industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9363	Thank you. National MP Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9364	Here, Minister, I think you always like it when I ask you a question, then you can speak this affirmatively, but I sincerely hope that now all that you have said and promised both to the workers and the citizens of Serbia will indeed be done in the coming period. What I'm thinking, I'm asking you again now -- can I consider that employees of enterprises in restructuring from January 1st will have certified books?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9365	Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9366	That's right. In the first ten days, we'll re-analyze the situation and pay that money anywhere the companies themselves can't. As far as this goes, this is gonna be a fight. Of course, there's a lot of work to make all this happen. We'll go case by case. I spent the first four months as finance minister dealing, first of all, with public finances. The idea was to stabilize public finances, and then in the next year, break and start a healthy part of the economy, and the one that doesn't have a perspective, see if at least a part of it can find a market and help and then finally have a transfer of that to the standard. I'll be on the ground next year, I won't be in Belgrade, I'll be all over Serbia with my team, from factory to factory, with the idea that I'm not just going where politicians usually go to take pictures when they're opening, but to go where the problems are. I'm not running away from any problems. There's a lot of them. I don't believe I can solve everything, not me, not anyone living in the world, but I will do my best with the government to solve most of the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9367	National MP Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9368	I'd just like to, if you could answer me -- what's the version of "B" for "The Iron" by Smeder?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9369	I'm sorry, you can comment, but you can't ask a question, because the minister has no right to call you back. According to the Rules of Procedure, you can make a comment in two minutes. You won't? Thank you. Since it's already been 1900 hours, we're finishing today's work. I thank all of you for your participation, I thank the Government, which has taken this year very seriously and responsibly, for the fourth time, to answer parliamentary questions. I'm setting a 30-minute break. We'll be back to work at 7:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9370	Dear People's MPs, we continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - PROPOSING OF THE PUBLIC PROPOSION OF PUBLIC PROPOSES You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojšić, Karolj Čijak, Momo Čolaković, Dejan Radenković, Vesna Jovički, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Slobodan Veličković, Vladimir Marinković, Milorad Mijatović, Slavica Savić, Ivan Karić, Bozidar Djelić, Janko Radaković, Joksimović, Olgica Batić, Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Dušica Morčević, Dušica Pejčić, Gorica Gajic, Gorica Gajić, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajković, Petar Petković, Gorica Mojković, Gorica Mojović, Gorica Mojović, Biljan Šaljan Šalić, Šalić, Šalić, Šalić, Šalić, Mir, Šalić Šalić, Šalić Šalić, Zalj, Zalj. National MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dejan Mihajlov and Dusica Morčev, written on 24 December 2012, withdrew the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Also, MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic, written on December 25, 2012, withdrew amendments to Articles 63, 78 and 84. The draft law, and National MP Ranka Savic, written on December 24, 2012, withdrew the amendment to Article 22. It's a bill of law. Also, the amendments were withdrawn, written on December 27, 2012, by the MPs of Vesna Jovicki to Article 7, Miroljub Stojčić to Article 85 and Zoran Kasalovic to Article 141. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9371	Madam Chairman, I am not sure whether all MPs have received the opinion of the legislator on the amendments submitted. We see that there are three or four copies of the opinion in the O.R., but here I, as a MP, did not get the opinion of the legislator. There is an opinion from the Committee, although some 16 amendments have been subsequently submitted by the Committee, and I do not know whether the Proposer himself has made a statement on these amendments. In any case, I believe that the right of every MP before he starts discussing the amendments submitted, to know which amendment has been accepted and which amendment has not been accepted by the legislator himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9372	I have information that professional services have been distributed to the parliamentary groups. You've received one copy in the MPs' groups. If you think it's necessary, we'll take a 10-minute break to get everyone's opinion. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Mr. Mikovic, you signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9374	All I'm interested in is whether or not the Government's opinion has been delivered on the amendments tabled? Since every law, including the amendment, there is an opportunity to ask the government for an opinion. In my view, such an important law is also necessary for the Government's opinion on the amendments, so I am interested in whether it is requested, whether it is obtained, if it is received, it would be nice to know what the Government's position is on the amendments submitted, because to submit amendments depending on whether they will be adopted or not they can be substantially amended by the law itself. In that sense, I think it would be good, especially with such strategic laws, since this law is not so important, I doubt it would be submitted by a large parliamentary group. So anyway, if we can get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9375	You'll get an answer to that question. Therefore, there is no opinion of the Government on amendments to the proposal for a law on public procurement, since this is in accordance with Article 164(2), which states that if it is not the draft law, the Government may deliver an opinion to the National Assembly on the amendments submitted. So, I think you're through an expedition and informed as a member of the People's Parliament that there is no government opinion on it. You want another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9376	Just to ask, is the government's opinion asked for so it's not received or?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9377	I have been informed that the government has been informed that we are discussing amendments, but have not spoken of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9378	They didn't want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9379	I can't tell you now whether they wanted to or didn't want to, but we didn't get the government's opinion. Does anyone want a word about the amendment to Article 3? A bill of law? I've already read it, but I'll do it again. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9380	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have submitted an amendment before the DSS parliamentary group to Article 3 where we have proposed to add beyond point 28 of point 29, and this member refers to the meaning of certain expressions in public procurement and to be unusually low priced, this is the offered price which significantly deviates from the market comparable price and raises suspicion and the possibility of public procurement in accordance with the conditions offered. We believe that based on the experience we have had so far that this term is unusually low, it must be clearly and precisely defined regardless of what this term stands for in Article 92. But certainly this Article 3 exists, and so it is stated, and all these terms used in public procurement procedures are listed and we felt it was very important that we do so here too. Because if the promoter wanted to make better, clearer and more precise and criteria and everything about the process and procedures in public procurement, we didn't think this should be left out. We used to have big problems with the dumping prices of foreign companies, in different tenders where during the procedure we get up to two, three times the price. We had an example of the Alps where the estimated value was 33.3m euros for the works, and they got it for 17.3. Immediately afterwards, with various contract annexes and the damages filed, they were paid 44m euros, which means the lowest price, is not the most favourable for the state. So it happens very often the opposite, so we really think it's necessary to define this term within Article 3. I would ask the proposing representative to take this into account for a better and more precise Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9381	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9382	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm wasting my time with an authorised representative. I am fascinated by the fact that the proposer of this law has not accepted any amendment from the opposition except some cosmetics and that none of our 27 amendments are good enough to accept it. This bill of law that we have before us is as good as we said in relation to the earlier bill and represents a serious step in the qualitative way that this area can do. But we believe that it is not perfect, and through our amendments we have pointed to those problems that exist in this law, where, in accordance with some personal interests, individual members have been written, where certain parts of the law and some provisions have been made in a way that will not work. We are through a debate in principle and through the debate on amendments we will point to all the problems that await in the application of this law, to all the possibilities for abuses that will occur unless some of the amendments are accepted. I was surprised by the fact that no amendment was simply accepted. In view of the intention here of all MPs and all opposition parties to do something good for this law, only the amendments of the ruling coalition and amendments that have also been placed at the request of some newly appointed directors of some public enterprises have already been accepted. This shows the unpreparedness of the parliamentary majority who proposed this law, not to establish one co-operation in this assembly that we expected to have at least on this law and which we expected during the first law in this Assembly that is being adopted on the proposal of MPs. We will, through this debate, explain, of course, all our amendments that have not been accepted and show why it would be good that they are in this bill and why their absence will not contribute to better functioning of public procurement in Serbia. And we will do the same with a very good intention, in a way that both the public and the MPs of this room are clear that they are quality and that they are written for the purpose, not to fill time and make amendments to distract someone, but to correct the text of the bill which is MP and which will be like the first such law from this Assembly and which should be the fruit of simple co-operation, the agreement on the best solution in this Assembly, without any opposition or position, since we have approached with such intents to make this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9383	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not true that the amendments are accepted only by the MPs who belong to the ruling majority, they have also been accepted by the MPs who do not belong and do not support this government and have not participated in the proposal of this law, and let us get this straight away. I would ask, when you mention stakeholders, to determine exactly what stakeholders are, because stakeholders can also be groups that want to abuse public procurement procedures. I'm interested in whether someone here abuses or wants us to make a law so that someone in the public procurement system is corrupting or harming the state, in order to exercise a right that would not belong to him under normal conditions. As for this amendment, I don't know, maybe it was your wish to fix something, I won't go into it, but the law has defined this matter. Are we going through every member to get through the same thing? I don't see any reason why in the very part, it wouldn't harm the law, but it burdens it with excess stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9385	Both Bojana Bozanic and Dejan Mihajlov, a replica, in which order, please welcome Mrs Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9386	In principle, I at least understood that we Law on Public Procurement, as well as other laws, are making it more precise and clearer to define all procedures and procedures, here in particular in public procurement procedures. Article 3 defines all the terms that appear in the Public Procurement Act, the negotiation procedure, the qualification, the competitive dialogue, the framework agreement, and then we are again in Articles 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, etc., explaining, i.e. a representative of the Proposors, clarifys those terms. I really don't think it's a burden on the law itself, what might have to be explained, because the term unusually low price is something that we've been dealing with in recent years, they've been used in a very awkward way, and it's happened that this price that's the lowest, is not the most favourable for the state, but through an annex contract, through some damages and demands, the state pays a lot more, and in some other case, we might get some more favourable, that at the beginning we've taken some price that's not unusually low compared to the estimated value. I was a little bit in my community where I work and deal with these public procurements, so I also saw the case of local self-government, and even in the case of countries where the figures are much larger, it's certainly much more serious, and what my colleague Dejan Mihajlov said is our goal to help make this law as good as possible and as good as possible. And for us some people voted, and they also expect us to help to pass a law on public procurement, which is good, quality, that will prevent corruption and contribute to the success and work of all contractors, but also of job providers. We're just trying to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9387	Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9388	We're not talking here right now about someone accusing you of representing stakeholders, but it's simply an interesting thing that an amendment appears, that everything has to be published in the Official Messenger. I would agree that it stands to be published in the Official Messenger for free, and that would be acceptable for us, because that is the answer to why something new has appeared that we think is not good. There is a portal on which all public procurement is published, which is public, available to all and the documentation necessary for certain public procurements and it is absolutely free of charge. If we introduce ourselves completely unnecessary by ourselves, the publication in the Official Messenger, which will be paid, we think that we are unnecessarily exposed to costs, the contracting authorities, and that this is the thing that is currently overcome, on the one hand. On the other hand, an Internet edition or an electronic edition of the "Official Messenger" is paid and we are the only country in the region where the electronic form of the "Official Messenger" is published, pays, although there is an obligation under the Constitution that laws are equally accessible to all and that ignorance of a law does not justify one who makes some act contrary to the law. If this is done, it should be reduced to electronic announcement of offers, if it is free access to the official messenger's website by that offer. Otherwise, we are coming into a situation where there is a new imposition, a burden to the job manager, to be published in the Official Messenger, which we do not need in this situation and only to be costed and only to double what already exists. One institution of the Republic, Public Procurement Administration, the Republic Commission, which has its own portal, which should become the right place for all public procurement in Serbia according to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9389	Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9390	Let's go over the amendment first, you are, if I understand correctly, asking that here, after point 28, point 29 be added to your amendment. When you want to do something, what about the current point 29? Do you change it, delete it, or so far dot 29 becomes 30, so until the end, that's what the amendment says? Believe me, I wrote the most. I don't believe there are any more MPs in the Assembly who have made amendments than I have. Simply, for technical reasons, this amendment cannot be accepted, because you are erasing point 29, and that is the criterion set by the bill. As for the official messenger, I asked a very clear question, when you mention stakeholders, those are the ones they want to abuse, that the law leaves the possibility of abuse for someone to get a job that on market conditions they wouldn't otherwise be able to do. They're interested groups. The "officer official" was officially reported by the Republic of Serbia and in the talks, how to edit this matter, because it expressed doubts that electronic publication can be misused, the only thing left to do is to be a state-run public company that is responsible for publishing, that it stands for every offer that appears. That is why, in order not to expose public procurement providers to great costs, it is also determined how much and what must be published by the Official Messenger, and all other official information goes through the Public Procurement Office portal and is required to be absolutely free of charge to allow anyone who wants to participate in the procurement process, in terms of reviewing the offer, to prepare the documentation and to participate in the procurement service provider. In addition, in order to exclude abuse by the "officer" in the sense that it is now starting with certain high prices that would significantly increase the public procurement process, it is envisaged that services, fees for services on this matter are determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the one that is the contracting authority, most often, that is, its bodies intended for the job of selecting the best bidder. I understand your wish, but I don't think technically we've reached that level yet so we can rely only on e-mails when it comes to public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9391	Thank you. The word is Dejan Michael, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9392	First, I explained that I don't mean stakeholders, but I mean certain things that happen, which are not good for us. That's exactly how you're going to make available to everyone, certain competitive documentation on the official portal, on the official messenger website, if you're paying "Official Messenger", that's one, and if every copy of "Official Messenger" is paid, that's two. Why don't you believe in the portal of the Public Procurement Agency and the Republic Commission, that's how it's going to be available to everyone. You trust enough to get the Republic Commission to conduct a first-degree infringement procedure, you believe that they are given the right to listen to employees in the face of the seals, rooms, documentation, and so forth, and you don't trust them to be able to compete with the publication documentation on the public procurement agency portal, that's one thing. Secondly, if you are already insisting that the "Official Messenger" publishes, then do as is done in the case of the release of a political party's report on funding in the "Official Messenger", where it is done free of charge, where the "Official Messenger" is as a state-owned company, under the obligation to do something that is in the state interest. In this situation, make it possible for electronic access to information to be completely free. Put in the law that electronic access to competition documentation on the official messenger website will be free and accessible to everyone, as well as to the public procurement management portal, and that they do not have customers, or bidders, the obligation to buy the "Official Messenger" to pay a subscription to the official messenger website, but to make it absolutely free of charge. The government should determine the amount of the price that all contracting entities in Serbia, which it has on the list, which will, of course, make the Government on the record, will be obliged to pay the costs to the "Official Messenger".
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9393	Thank you. Mrs. Bozanic, just to tell you, since Mr. Mihajlov's replicated, in order to allow as many MPs to lead the discussion, I ask you to stop the replica now. Mr. Arsic, you'll get a chance to respond. However, I ask you to limit your exposure to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9394	Madam Chairman, don't break the Rules of Procedure now, but I'll be as brief as possible, anyway. Why would someone buy the official messenger if it's on his portal for free? Why would the "Official Messenger" charge data premiums, if it has from its portal, if there is a portal that is free, and which is completely equal in the publication process? I told you, the logic of being published in the Official Messenger is to start the procurement procedure, but if it's not in the Official Messenger and it's not on the portal of the Republic Public Procurement Authority, that public procurement doesn't exist. One more thing, the date with which the procedure begins is related to the date of publication on the public procurement portal. You cannot exclude the official message of the Republic of Serbia from this process, people, at least not at first, at least until the law enters full application. If it turns out through the experience that it's too high, what costs you and me to write a law, amend and supplement the law, and rule it out as a possibility? I'm telling you again, the public procurement and advertising process is going to be far cheaper than it's ever been, just because in the part where there's a fee to the official messenger, far less information is published than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9395	Thank you. In order to explain why I have limited the time to two minutes, I will call on Article 158, paragraph 7, which says that the legislator, or an authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot last longer than three hours. Mr. Michael's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9396	Like this, you've now said that publishing to the official messenger is a condition for the start of public procurement, which is contrary to this law. You said that in the first sentence, I wrote it right, and if I have to, we'll take a stenogram to check it out. So that can't be a condition. I hope that's not a condition, but a condition of the orderr's act, which begins public procurement and publishes on the portal. I understand that you want through the official messenger to present some certainty, security, accuracy of the data. At this point, I really think that in the basic bill it didn't cost and that it wasn't necessary, because we have one portal for public procurement, which is one new institution, which is good and excellent, where all the data will be published. I think it's one solution that is present in all, let's say, normal states, where corruption is reduced to one level. I don't think there's any need for these things to be considered and sought on two or three sides, to bring in the costs and those who publish the ads of others who now have an obligation on two or three sides to look for this text of advertisement, especially what you said on the official messenger's website that only relevant information is being published. Then why publish only one piece of information when you have on the portal where everything will be published? So what's the point, when you're going to publish the text of the ad on the official messenger website and in the official messenger, and they're going to have to look for complete information on the portal of the Public Procurement Authority? It doesn't make any sense again. Secondly, I also heard that there was debate on the Finance Committee and that certain MPs from the ruling coalitions were against it. We talked to Mr. Radenkovic about, that simply, it may not be the best solution at the moment. There is no need, a portal not something that should be a centre, the centre of all procurement in Serbia. All energy and you as proposings and the government to participate in all this, we need to invest that portal to become a central stone or a cornerstone of supply in Serbia. We agree with each other completely and support such a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9397	Thank you. Mr. Radenkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9398	Thank you, Vice President. Just because of the clarification, we, as a parliamentary group of SPS in the debate in principle, have highlighted as a positive proposal in the proposal for a Public Procurement Act, that there will be no longer any obligation to publish in "The Official Messenger". Suddenly on the board appeared an amendment that brought us back to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9399	Excuse me, Mr. Radenkovic, I have to remind you, we are with the amendment to article 3 of the bill. When we get to that amendment, you'll have a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9400	I would ask you not to interrupt me, because just because of the clarification, you have chaired the Committee, you have not voted in favour of this amendment, as well as some other members of that committee, so I ask you to just say a position that makes us absolutely against and we are not clear why it is coming back to be published in the Official Messenger, which is the reason, because "The Official Messenger", as a company that has a lot of income from other various ads, is not necessary, nor will his business be compromised, if he remains without income from this. If the policy of this government is to abolish the various parafiscal burdens of the economy, to shorten procedures, what is done makes the procedure difficult again, creates additional costs for businesses, not to mention the sums of the money, which are the annual release for advertising, the public procurement portal is a great thing. When you publish that, there's a time, a date, and from that day on, there's a deadline when they're going to take it, so I can absolutely say that we think that for a teaming of needs, because of procedures, because of principles, efficiency, economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9401	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9402	Thank you. I'd like these two minutes per amendment first, and after a while as authorized by my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9403	Mr. Djelic, this is not your amendment and you can only use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9404	I'd just like to say that this discussion that we've heard quite well now reflects what we saw on a committee that you chaired, and that's that we've seen huge differences in what was supposed to be, I'd say consensus, and the DS said that in case a few amendments were adopted, and we would be willing to vote for this law. On the board and tonight we see that there is no agreement on this law within the ruling coalition. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia must know that for two and a half hours we have had a debate not only between the government and the opposition but also largely within the ruling coalition, where neither the amendments to the PUPS on issues relating to the heart of the political programme, which concerns companies that employ persons with disabilities, nor the SPS issues, and here we have seen a desire not to defile one of the progress promised by this law, which is that deadlines are only from the moment of publication on the portal of the Public Procurement Authority. At the last minute, I don't know if the DSS accepts this solution, because Mr Nusic, their former senior official, is now with the promoters and is set to run this Official Messenger and whatever, what's absolutely amazing is that the law allegedly being prepared by the SNS, which allegedly served its legal time in the Assembly today we saw on the Committee on Economy and Finance when the chairman received 15 amendments from the Committee. They're not little amendments at all. These are amendments that, for example, admit an elementary error, which is that it's forgotten to tell who's holding the tender register. Suddenly they remembered it was supposed to be an APR. Suddenly they remembered that there was an official messenger to defend and provide what was legal. By the way, let’s say that it was an obligation to publish for those major procurements in writing because maybe the Internet is not so accessible or maybe some people in our country prefer to read the text. No, an amendment is proposed to ensure that it is published on the second portal. Where's the plus? Public procurement office portal or official messenger portal? Big deal. Not only that, what is extremely disappointing is that this amendment that we have proposed, which just wanted to better regulate in good legal practice, move some definitions, concepts, and that is what DSS MPs have been talking about, not to change the text but just to put things where they should, and that amendment is being rejected. I don't understand why. The SPS amendment was rejected. We supported him. He just suggested a good thing. It's a good thing they remembered. I'm sorry we didn't think of that, which is that every plan for the public procurement of small customers is being published on the Internet. That's a great idea. I suggest we all support that amendment. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9405	Mr. Djelic, get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9406	I'm using my authorized time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9407	I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9408	I want to point out at the opening moment of my 15 minutes when I can talk about what I want, not just the amendment. That's the rule of the Rules of Procedure that you should know better than I do. What's amazing at this point is that a well-intentioned proposal coming from the ruling coalition, the perceived problems that exist in public procurement, which is that some public enterprises, law enforcement officers, have an obligation to publish this plan very early in the year, do not do so and sometimes wait very late in the year to publish it. Some of them, and we all saw that well, there are no political differences, they publish it in the middle of the summer, and they give extremely short deadlines for these public procurements to be made. It's very good and we support the SPS amendment. It is bad that other members of the ruling coalition do not support this, that all public procurement plans are published online. This is consistent with what, respected SNS promoters, and you yourself suggest in terms of transparency. On cancer, I would also like to say a few words about the amendments that we have proposed and for which I do not understand why they are not accepted. One amendment tried to avoid an exception introduced for the first time, which is that in large markets that are international and there is a great tradition everywhere in the world of public international tenders, which is for ID cards and passports. Nearly four million biometric passports in Serbia. Everyone has to have a ID. These are extremely important big moments and no secrecy will be violated if it remains in the domain of public procurement. What she must remain secret, all the countries do, when she obtained during the previous period of those chips and what was meant to provide white Schengen. There's no reason to exclude it from application now. For the best part, we have proposed an amendment that suggests that, when the right-of-law promoter wants additional work through the annex to be reduced from 25 to 15%, we said 10%. All right, maybe it's not as important as extra work. We have suggested that such extensions of works cannot be at prices that are different from the original tender that has taken place with full competition. What's the problem? Are we going to some high-level politics here? No, that's common sense. Accept the amendment. We can fix it, it's not too late, so we can make sure that this extra 15%, be your way, is not done at different prices. At the same time, I welcome that our amendment has been accepted, and my colleague will talk about it in terms of how competition can be provided. But what I really don't understand is, in the end, that's an explanation given on the amendment, which seems to me, and I don't have any particular copyright, on an amendment that's trying to put in place on this important case for our citizens, one general principle, which is that, when the savings are announced, the mechanism is also proposed to verify whether the savings are effectively realised. I think that's very fair. If the ruling coalition, especially the SNS, which has been more than a year and a half, and in this debate promises and announces between 600m euros and a billion euros at the annual level of savings, we have proposed a mechanism to ensure that this potential success is proven in our budgets. The idea is very simple, that all those who order, the savings they will have, so that those who save them don't disappear on other spendings, that a budget fund is formed. It's not a good argument that says it punishes those who are more efficient, because the government can ensure that the fund rewards those who make the biggest savings. In this way it will even be more eclatant that this fund saves from public procurement can very clearly show who it is that works most in the interests of our citizens, and then get the opportunity to finance something else, or that our nation, through the report of the finance minister, every quarter of the following year in this House, and then through budgets to ensure that more money goes to what we need so much. We've been listening to you very carefully. Yes, savings are needed in Serbia today. One of the most painless ways to save them is through better functioning of public procurement. So let's adopt this mechanism, and through this mechanism there's more money for agriculture, there's more money for single mothers, there's more money for women who have to keep their pregnancy, there's more money for those who are socially at risk, there's more money for the water industry, there's more money for supporting the domestic economy. I think we can work this out. That is why there are only two reasons to refuse this amendment. The first is that you haven't figured it out, or you've seen some evil intention where it's not there. I repeat, there are no evil intentions, and I suggest that this principle, which we propose to introduce here in these difficult times, is that everywhere they promise or expect savings, to check it out, we have feedback from all the public policies that we vote in this high house, and I'm sorry that there's some political background here where it really doesn't exist. We're open here. If you can't get 600m euros next year, give me a number to change the amendment. If you don't want it to be by forming a budget fund, but you want to cut those tax savings, it's acceptable. I repeat, the DS is ready, if you adopt this amendment, to vote in favour of the Public Procurement Act. The DS will then vote on this amendment to rebalance the budget that will ensure that our citizens have the opportunity to monitor whether they save 600m euros, or as far as you can tell, are effectively realised. If you do, we'll congratulate you on that, but I'm afraid after this discussion and discussion on the Committee and this empty explanation, I'm afraid that's actually the reason why this is being rejected, and that's that you don't believe in your own promises anymore, that now that you're faced with what you are, and that's the responsibility, when you have to answer for what you promised, all of a sudden kneeling knees, suddenly I hear in dozens of empty explanations that it's just going to be followed, that the law needs to be delayed, that the law should start to work a little later, that it's not quite easy, that now we have to see what level it will be done in that way and we come to the absurdities of all absurdities, which is in this explanation that when someone is saving, that it's being punished. This is completely contrary to what must be our goal, all of us, regardless of what our political options are, which is to ensure that state money is used both legally and economically. Mr. Arsic, colleagues, it's not too late. You can vote in voting day maybe for yourself to secure one big win. Here, we at DS offer you a mechanism for that, but if you refuse or see a political attack where there really isn't or don't believe in what you've been saying for so long. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9409	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9410	Madam President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing Mr Djelic to speak about all the amendments submitted by his parliamentary group because Article 158 of Article 3 provides that the president of the parliamentary group should act in particular. This Rules of Procedure, which I now hold in my hand, is the work of your fellow Members who are MPs, I think some of them are still with you here in the parliamentary benches and who have written one such Rules of Procedure, which is not exactly something great. Mr. Djelic, I totally understand that you're acting like this because you're a short MP, but I also know that he's often the chairman here, and today the vice president of the DS, has been giving people this kind of warning and taking away their word. You can only talk about the agenda point on condition that in particular it is only for that amendment and nothing more. Let me just use 10 or 15 more seconds. If you published a public procurement plan, you would create the next situation, which is that the bidders schedule the market, schedule which public procurement will receive, because the biggest problem in implementing the Public Procurement Act is the lack of competition. Announcing the plan will make it much less possible for more bidders to agree on who will get the job, share it, and perform certain that they will get the job that suits them in a series.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9411	Thank you. You're absolutely right, Mr. Arsic. I, too, read this article in 158 as you do, and I think it's time to talk about the agenda, so, the amendment. I also warned Mr. Djelic at some point that he was talking about the amendment. He believes that his time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group can be spent the way he discussed it. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9412	This is a replica of Mr. Djelic. Mr. Ljusic was with us at the party and he did go to SNS and that's no problem for us. Everyone chooses at some point the party will go to, where it sees that it has more ambition. That's a fact. But this is not a disputed fact that Mr. Ljusic was a good director while he was director of the Official Messenger, that he did a number of capital things. I have no doubt he'll be a good director again. As far as we're concerned, we're not getting into it. We also said in principle that we are against it and that we agree with it and that it is a good solution, which is no longer an obligation to be published in the Official Messenger. We said that in principle debate, and we remain consistent with that, that we will now be against that amendment. That's why we discussed it. This has nothing to do with the personality of Rados Ljusic, personal animosities, because we are not leading into politics. I hope you shouldn't be handling it, too. It is simply a matter that we do not agree on, but we agree that it is necessary to ensure on the portal the publication of all public procurement and leave the "Official Messenger" to publish those other things – laws, regulations and all those other acts which are mandatory under other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9413	Thank you. The following is registered by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9414	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to explain, since there's obviously been a mix-up. My colleague Djelic got it all wrong. I think we voted the amendment, our amendment, the SPS, that procurement plans are being published on the portal. Most of the votes were adopted and we think it's good. We disagree that the bidders will have a chance to make a deal. Providers, under the law on the availability of information, have the right to seek these procurement plans and must all have deliveries, so that they can renegotiate. That's no excuse. If we fight for transparency, the basic principle of transparency is that too. We all need to know what someone's planning to get. So, as we were saying in principle, NGOs and the media must and everyone interested in knowing what's going on, what someone is planning to get and react on time. I only made a correction to that amendment, just so everyone knows. We simply excluded those from article 127, so we explained that, too, that there was no confusion. The only thing that didn't go through with my astonishment, and it was about this amendment, those are criminal provisions. Only one who is bound by this law to publish on the public procurement portal a procurement plan will not be sanctioned. Of course, I urge you to reconsider, to provide for criminal provisions to adopt that amendment of mine. That's what I'll talk about when he gets on the agenda. (President: Time. I'm using the MP's time group. (President: You're talking about the amendment? I thought you were replicating. Go on. Thank you. As far as this demagogue approach is concerned, to build a fund and make payments, it's really... We can't predict advance savings. The savings that will be made under this law will be at the end of the year when the next budget comes. You can't predict in advance what you're going to save over the year. That's absurd. As an opposition, you have the right to talk about it, to suggest it. We at the SPS haven't said for a moment how much savings that will be. These savings will be seen in the end, i.e. When we adopt the budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9415	Thank you. The following has been reported by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9416	Thank you. I'm using the line right now. I thank you for allowing me, given that MP Veroljub Arsic made false claims, and it is very easy to establish that his tendency to tell the truth can be checked in a stenogram. It is about the application and interpretation of a member of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the President or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group having the right to 15 minutes. The MP found that MPs were warned and MPs were interrupted because they did not respect that member of the Rules of Procedure, which is false. Reading a stenogram is easy to determine. However, I am pleased that a new rule has been established, which is entirely possible by interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which is that, regardless of whether two minutes are being used by the Proposer to explain the amendment, whether the time of the parliamentary group, of which each parliamentary group has the proportional participation of its number of MPs in the National Assembly or the time of the President or of the authorised representative, must talk about the amendment that is under review. This has just been established between MP Veroljub Arsic and the chairman. I am pleased with such a new practice, as I was pleased when former Vice-President of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly asked for a consistent application of Article 96(4), which required a lecture on the list of MPs before the authorised representative, i.e. the promoter, began the debate on the agenda point. Since it is quite obvious that what is once again in the stenogram can be established, it is confirmed as a practice, then it means reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure for every MP who dares to break that rule, and the stenogram remains for all of us to testify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9417	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9418	I agree that the stenogram remains. I also remember that if I could advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure for two minutes, I would get a really exhausted answer of ten minutes and not just myself, but many MPs. Every time an MP stepped back from the amendment at least a little bit, he was distracted to return exclusively to the amendment under discussion. That was the practice, while another majority led this congregation and the same majority voted in this Rules of Procedure. Believe me, I don't mind very much being stricter on the rules of the Rules of Procedure and not being interpreted more strictly, but as gently as possible, as long as we don't question the continuation of the normal session. I have to say, when the MP talks about the law, so he wants to do some parallel right, etc., that he has the right to say so, and not always the chairman tells him – go back to the topic of the agenda. It all happened from 2000 to 2001 until a few months ago. Every Rules of Procedure that was passed in this assembly, I have to say only in one period that one was so much lighter because of the assessment of the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, but everyone else was more rigorous, had growing penalties and had narrowed down the possibilities and rights of the MPs to participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9419	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, I won't allow you the right to a replica, since we're away from the subject. (Gordana Comić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9420	Thank you. You have injured Article 27, given that the exchange of replicas began with your decision to apply in a different way in a different way by a member who determines what the president or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group can say in the time of 15 minutes available to him, that is, in the time available to the parliamentary group and because you allowed MP Veroljub Arsic to say that he now insists that this practice be introduced, in previous address to the National Assembly. After my explanation, he says that while I was running the National Assembly sessions, that's how it was. Make up your mind, he can't do both. Do you want such a practice to be introduced or do you feel that such practice was? I repeat that I am in favour of such a practice being introduced, but that it implies the right of each of us to refer to a breach of the Rules of Procedure if either of us gets away from the subject of the amendment. I repeat again, a stenogram is a great thing. As it says in the stenogram, everything my fellow MP, Veroljub Arsic, says in the stenogram everything anyone has said in this assembly. I hope that will be interesting reading not only for us contemporaries, but also for those in the future. I believe that you must react if the People's MP in the Replica asks for one rule, and in addressing you after the breach of the Rules of Procedure requires another rule. He can't do both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9421	Mrs. Comic, I don't agree with you at all that I violated Article 27 and that it was my free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you yourself know that according to the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about the subject of the agenda. That is why there are amendments that are sorted in a certain order. Of course we're opening a debate on individual amendments. The Rules of Procedure correctly determines that the amendment promoter has the right to speak for two minutes on the amendment, that the time of the total debate on amendments is distributed to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. Also, there is something called additional time for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, which is 15 minutes old. This refers to the overall debate in the details of the given item of the agenda. So, if we are currently on the amendment to Article 3 and we are discussing it, I think all speakers, and given that we all need to stick to the topic of the agenda, we need to talk about this amendment. It's not my free interpretation. If you think so, you may request an interpretation. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9422	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the previous speaker said, and not the chairman, the stenogram is something that remains written. In one part, I insisted that the practice introduced by those who voted for this Rules of Procedure be respected, and I also said that I would like the MPs to have a less rigorous Rules of Procedure and that they can explain much more widely, that they can go much wider in their discussions than these Rules of Procedure are now foreseen. That's what I said, and that's what I said because I've been an opposition MP for many years, and I know how hard it is when you want to say something, and in that, you're being prevented by the chairman, and in the end by the Rules of Procedure who have limited you to be able to talk about the amendment for two minutes. Let me remind you of something else, not only is that not only two minutes, but one minute. So much democracy in the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9423	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9424	I have to say, I let more experienced people interpret what I can and can't. I'm told I can, so if I can, that's what I did. But if I shouldn't, I won't do it again. In any case, let me note that both counterpart Arsic and counterpart Radenkovic discussed some topics that are not subject to this amendment. I'm just asking that if I didn't have the right to do it, they don't have the right either, but I guess I was right, and they probably did, too. Now I'd like to get back to the point and the point. What are we doing here? At the plenary session, we find that the party's MP in power, from whose ranks the prime minister comes, thinks his amendment has received support, and we hear from the coalition's party headquarters that he does not think about adopting the amendment. I'm sorry, I guess it would be time that now that we've come to this point, the law that supposedly waited so long and where you've all made such a good deal, at least make a deal between you. We said our position. We support this amendment. I'm sorry we're not co-authors, but it would be good if we didn't see such a tear on this subject in this coalition. Finally, just to remind my colleague, Mihajlov, I am sorry that as chief staff member of the DSS, you do not remember that Mr. Ljušić was the director of not "The Official Messenger", but the Book Department. Let me remind you. As for that appointment, we gave our position on his appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9425	I think it was obviously a good proposal to insist that the government plead on the proposed amendments. Especially if there's a dilemma on the Committee about what's been adopted and what hasn't been adopted. If for that session of the Committee, as far as I'm aware, the deputy member from the DSS hasn't even been informed about it, about the session itself, then obviously...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9426	Mr. Mikovic, I'll remind you that we're talking about the amendment right now and you've been given the floor on that basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9427	Yeah, and about that amendment. For that amendment and for every amendment. It is absolutely necessary for the government to make a statement, since there is obviously an obvious dilemma in most of what is needed and what is not to be adopted, what will appear to be the final text of the law. This is a very important matter. If it weren't so important, I'm sure the parliamentary group, the largest in the National Assembly, would not have proposed such a law. The fact is that even the resolute minister has not spoken about it, as far as the amendments are concerned, and the government has not said so either. In that sense, it would be useful to ask the government to make a statement before we move forward about what is more useful for the state of Serbia. What is more useful for Serbian citizens about any amendment that is here in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9428	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9429	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MP of the DS, I have a dilemma both about this amendment and about all other amendments, whether the Government really wants this law, since it has not spoken of it, as Mr Mikovic says. Or maybe you've taken over the platform's shallowing model, so since you can't agree on the platform, the president has one platform, the government has another platform, and you can't agree on these amendments what the parliamentary group of the ruling majority wants and what the government wants. Therefore, I think it is very smart and rational to accept Mr. Mikovic's appeal and to get some government opinion, to know whether it is politics or not and if it is, what is politics? If the platform's writing model is overrun by the laws passed in this parliament, it will not be good for the laws or for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9430	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't mind the government pleading on some bill passed by the MPs. I don't mind making a statement about amendments submitted by MPs as well. I also think that the MPs who bear the sovereignty of citizens, too, have the right to their opinion, regardless of which parties, because they voted for their lists, were on those lists their names in that order as the proposer put it. If the government doesn't deliver something to us, that's what we're asking of it – we're not thinking of it. The Serbian Parliament is above the government of the Republic of Serbia and, unfortunately, the Democratic Party has introduced as a rule that the National Assembly be in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, rather than the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the service of the National Assembly. What do I do to you, it seems that's how you learned, get used to it or you're afraid, no MP here is afraid of any minister, at least he knows about this ruling majority who supports this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9432	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9433	Mr. Arsic, you have now denied yourself. I also ask you to ask that the Government deign you, to hear and ask you – you sitting in the Government, what is your position on these amendments, answer me to the People's MP who controls the Government. I am absolutely convinced that you control Mr. Alexander Vukic with your intellectual capacity. I am absolutely sure that you are in control of the Ivica Dacic and that he must answer you when you address as the Government Assembly, please tell me – what is the government's opinion on this amendment, I am Veroljub Arsic, because I am in control of the government and I voted in favour of the government and I want the Government to answer that question. Please show Mr. Arsic this in practice, not to give us DS lectures on how parliament and government should function. The government has turned you with a gesture like this, where they ignore you, into a flow boiler, where they just push you into the head of what you have to vote for, let the hot water go, you press the button when they say now and when they tell you to jump, you don't ask why, but how high. It's not good for democracy or for you or your political party. I am not authorized here to give you political speeches and political lectures. There are party political schools, you learn a little there, but don't let us teach you how parliament should function here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9434	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9435	I fully agree with you, that I have enough intellectual capacity to demand and receive it, and from Vukic, who is the Minister of Defence and the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, which I'm not sure if you can achieve it, but just one question to you. At that intellectual level, you are safe, and that is, when you, as a national MP who supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have had the opportunity to conduct a discussion on the law passed by the MPs? That's never the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9436	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9437	Mr. Arsic, you didn't understand me, I don't support this government, so I don't care when the government answers me. I'm criticizing this government, and I want to bring it down as soon as possible, and thank you for helping me with that. Please, I'm asking you when will the government give us an opinion on the amendments? Here one democratic practice, namely one non-democratic practice, is established very dangerous for parliamentary life in Serbia, that the President of the Republic has one platform, the Government has another platform, you have one amendment, the Government has other amendments. We want this political paradox, where practically one beats a wedge, another record, about important life issues, to once cut that Gordy knot, and to know what we're on. This model of writing a platform when it spills over to all other spheres of life is very dangerous, I underline, for you both, for Serbia and for the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9438	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. A representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 7 paragraph 1 requesting that paragraphs 1 and 4 be deleted. This is an extremely important amendment, and we are sorry that the promoter did not adopt this proposal. Namely, in our explanation of this amendment, it says that in the current legal solution, only in the service sector did we have carriers of exclusive and special rights. Now that circle is spreading extremely, so that it includes certain activities of the EPS, and electricity networks, gas distribution, and above all here I mean Telecom, which is mostly state-owned, so it should be, I mean, certain banks that are also owned by the majority of state-owned...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9440	Excuse me, Mr. Petkovic. I'd ask DS MPs to keep their voice down, I'm not in a position to follow the speaker. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9441	Thank you. Therefore, it is certain entities that are in majority state ownership. Those as holders of exclusive rights will be exempt from the provisions of this law. This means that the biggest purchases are in these spheres and it will be out of control of the state, outside the control of the state authorities, when it comes to huge money, when it comes to expensive purchases, especially when it comes to the power grid, when it comes to electronic communications. It also says here that "Telecom" will be the exception because there is real competition. According to the Ratel report, we see that there is no such thing as competition in reality. That's what I said in the principle debate. Here we have nothing against such a business as Telecom, but it is a principle that the state must introduce a monitoring mechanism precisely in these large systems, a public procurement monitoring mechanism, to monitor the flow of money. The essence of this bill is, among other things, the fight against corruption. Let us, by accepting this amendment, show that we are fighting this corruption and that in every sphere, when it comes to the state, we control where our money goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9442	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9443	That could be the only Telecom on the market, but you know it's not the only one. Insisting on your amendment raises questions that there are much more favourable conditions for, say, Telenor, or any other operator, or any other person who provides such services. You give them the benefit because they do business in the market. It is not their business based on the Public Procurement Act that is based on market principles. Imagine now that Telecom would have to conduct such a procedure, where each of its services would be far more expensive on the market than its competitors. That's the problem. Unfortunately, accepting this amendment would lead Telecom to one situation, which is that it cannot market with other operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9444	The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9445	I think it's important here to say this, that before this bill is passed, it would be good for the government to draw up a list of the holders of exclusive rights and see who will be the exception to the provisions of this bill, or the future law, if adopted. Then we'll see clearly which companies we're talking about. When I mentioned "Telecom", you know well that the DSS had a petition and raised the public to preserve Telecom in the majority of Serbia's state. It means good business to us, Telecom. This is about not being able to purchases that are in millions of euros, to leave the state out of control. That's actually what this is about, not whether it's given to someone else an advantage or not. This is not just about Telecom, it is also about some of the activities of EPS, electricity networks, gas distribution, and I mentioned, too, certain banks that, by the process, will, by the way, have certain public procurements that will be ordered.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9446	The 7th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Vojislav Vuuć. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajević. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9447	I thank you, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members of the 7th Law for regulating the purchases to which this law on public procurement will not apply. In point 2 of sub-paragraph 2, it says – it will not refer to those public procurements financed from foreign loans, i.e. loans received from international financial organisations and institutions. The earlier law stated that those loans and loans were exempt from public procurement, while commercial loans and loans fell under the public procurement procedure. Our DSS parliamentary group believes that this sub-paragraph 2 should be deleted, as should the position where the list of international organisations and financial institutions referred to in point 1 of sub-paragraph 2 of which special procurement procedures are applied in this case is also deleted. You know how, all of us swear to the development of domestic economy, to help, above all, when the construction operation is at stake, and if this bill remains, the public procurement process will mainly eliminate large infrastructure projects where the holders will be either the ministries, or public enterprises or local self-government, from the procurement process, because they will mainly be covered by the conditions prescribed by the international lender of that loan or loan. We will, mainly, put most of our construction operation, which we constantly swear is the main momentum of the development of the economy in Serbia, aside when it comes to large infrastructure projects, primarily developmental, because we have seen through the budget proposal that big money comes from a republican level beyond the level of autonomous provinces, to the local level from international loans and loans. We have had an example, and we have repeatedly instructed it here, an example of "Icarbus" and an example of "GSP Belgrade", where "Icarbus" could not sell, or respond to the conditions set by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for reconstruction and development, because it did not meet the quality of its buses, but because it could not satisfy that financial part, which is mainly very strict when it comes to the conditions prescribed by those international financial institutions. If this bill remains, we will again put aside our construction operation, our large domestic companies, which I see, we keep swearing that we will give them subsidies, that we will include them in the development process in Serbia, and we keep leaving them on the sidelines and we are constantly eliminating them, and they will never have any reference to compete the next day, when big projects are at stake here in the country or outside of this country, if they are able to compete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9448	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9449	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I listen like this, I understand one part of the story, but I don't understand the other. You know what, if you want to apply for an international loan, commercially, no one's defending you. You apply for a commercial loan, you make an ad, banks come in, you pick the one that gives the lowest interest rate, the one that has the grace period, the longest payment deadline and you make the money, and you do the public procurement business as you wish. That's when it comes to commercial credit and no one's stopping us. When it comes to loans from international financial institutions, they are mostly subsidized. So, at a far lower interest rate than commercial ones, and often one part of the loan is not charged, or you self-finance one part of the project, and the other part of the project is completely grants to international financial institutions. In order for you to get something from international financial institutions, any benefit, means, you give up your commercial credit rights and you take the right to take a subsidy, as does the economy here, but it has to be under that regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not as it wants to deal with banks. So you have to respect some of their game rules. If we were a rich enough country, if our credit rating were far better and the interest our companies would take, or any public contractor, would have a far better credit rating with banks that could give us certain funds and, by the way, we wouldn't have to look for subsidized loans. Unfortunately, it's not like that. No one is defending the contracting authority from choosing whether or not it will be a commercial loan and that it is running the procurement procedure, or whether it will be subsidised, but under the conditions laid down in the contract that the subsidised credit is obtained. A clean decision from one who orders public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9450	National MP Gorica Gajic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9451	Mr. Arsic, it's clear to all of us that if the client wants to conduct some major public procurement, if there is no other choice of funds, there are commercial loans, so he wants to go to the domestic bank, he wants to go to a foreign bank, he wants to see international financial institutions. So it's certainly a broad market to be in debt. But we as a country are about 10, 15, 20 years back, and we will certainly be in the next period of opportunity to use very large funds, just that subsidized, from various international financial institutions and organisations. You as a Government, above all, and we as MPs are obliged to draw attention to the fact that somewhere in the use of these subsidized funds we should insert, so to speak, and our domestic economy, our construction operation, to make a dialogue with them, to show the lender or this subsidized loan that we too need to hire some of our operations here, to form a consortium, to see if and how we need to meet the very strict international conditions of financial institutions, to try to be competitive, because the practice among the lender of these subsidized loans and loans to bring their banks back to their own, to bring in their construction operations, to all the money they give at some interest rate, which is more favourable than commercial loans, to return to their own country. Our builders, first and foremost, are left with no significant jobs, that is to say, left without being the bearers of these jobs. Their lists are very poor, thin. I had a chance to talk to the directors, when I was on a local level, big construction firms who said they had no way of being the project's bearers, being the main contractors of a project, are mostly the second or third subcontractors. Thus, our construction operation and industry are being suppressed and we have little use for economic development when it comes to the use of these subsidized funds, because they are largely strictly controlled.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9452	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9453	I completely agree with you, but that's not what your amendment says. You're asking us to give up that right to use subsidized loans. That's what you're asking for with your amendment. That you rephrase, then fine, but you're asking to delete it from the law. (Gorica Gajic, from the place: We are not asking to be deleted. I can't do that. All the public procurement laws that had been used so far had this provision. Everyone, and the first to be proposed by fellow Djelic, I think it was by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and the one from 2008. I wish this didn't have to stand in the law, unfortunately it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9454	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Gajic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9455	Mr. Arsic, you're the government, you're the government, we don't have to chew it up nicely, write it down, place it, so you can accept it. You are obliged to put what I said today, or tonight, into the law and to keep, in some ways, as much as you can, a domestic construction operation by. One minute we won't have it, we'll be locked up by foreign companies, and we won't have our construction industry anymore, and it's the momentum of the development of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9456	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9457	My fellow Members, I am as you are, a People's MP. I'm not the government, I support the government. You were invited to participate in a public debate on the Public Procurement Act, to make your remarks, to try to find a solution together. You've made up your mind to help this law this way. It's your right, and I won't argue with that. However, we are all involved in politics, but unfortunately you are looking for something that no one in Serbia can make possible at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9458	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9459	Mr. Arsic is wrong when he says that this way we will leave Serbia without being able to take, first, those are not subsidized funds. These are the funds that Serbian citizens are returning. It is less than 1-2% interest than commercial banks, but not to create the wrong impression that these are donations. These are loans that Serbian citizens return as well as all other loans. You want to tell me, you mentioned here in these benches getting buses in Belgrade. It's a loan Mrs Gajic spoke of. It's a loan for getting a bus, where the Icarbus is completely excluded from being able to participate in the competition, to give its buses. Why? Because that's the kind of procedure that imposes on someone who doesn't donate money to us. That's the money the citizens of Serbia will pay back. Will the Belgraders, will they, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? So, we return that money, and the terms dictated by the IBRD, under which only a foreign company will be able to report to the subcontractors who will take our domestic companies that will work on the border of rentability, and the profit will be taken by a foreign company that will meet the terms of the tender, because the terms of the tender, which will be set up, as in this case, to exclude Icarbus, are that it has international references, that it has an annual turnover of over 500m euros, if there is a project of 100m euros in Serbia, that it has these, domestic companies, at the moment that the Serbian economy is recording the decline of GDP, cannot be realised. We'll get into a situation where our companies will be subcontractors to foreign firms coming here to participate in international tenders. Of the money the citizens of Serbia pay back, the money will not be returned by the European community or EU citizens, since it is a credit from the IBRD. The money will be returned by Serbian citizens, and the job will be taken down by some EU firm that will be able to meet the requirements of the tender. Here we do not say that funds and loans should not be taken from the IBRD and other banks, the German Development Bank, on the contrary, are favourable loans and should be taken. All we're saying is that a member should be expelled who says it's them who decide the terms of the tender and the choice of bidders. We ask that the selection of bidders and procedures be carried out in accordance with our law and that the client chooses the bidder regardless of whose means. That's the money we pay back. That money will not be returned by the Germans in the case of the German Development Bank. The money will be paid back by Serbs, but the German firm will take that pyjamas, that profit that will remain, and our companies will work for a small profit. That is what we are talking about and our intention is to allow our domestic companies to have greater opportunities to participate in tenders when Serbia is in charge and that they can make profits, not that the profits come out of Serbia. So it's a very good intention to leave a job for the Serbian firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9460	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9461	I would ask that you stay out of the GSP bus business, Belgrade City and infrastructure. One bus can also cost 200,000 euros, and it can cost a million, so Belgrade City has defined how much anyone will pay for the buses and then gets that loan to buy the more expensive ones. That's another problem now. You know how much it costs a mile. It is not exactly that this bill leaves everything to foreign investors, i.e. they engage and determine the conditions. In that same part, which you are asking to delete, based on international contracts and agreements, that is contracts and agreements concluded by the contracting authority and the one giving the subsidized credit. Guys, if it's not worth raising a subsidized loan because the price of work is higher, then we better go to the commercial market. Anyone who acts domestically, that's what he's gonna do. Don't rule out the possibility that where we can get the favor, we can give it up. The only safeguard measure is that we fight to make these terms of the contract as favourable as possible for us and possibly for our contractors. It's the only way. I know how difficult it is when it comes to international contracts, international subsidized loans. You need to build a commission to implement that contract, you need to provide a supervisory authority that needs to be in co-operation with that commission, to sign positions, certificates, etc. It's much harder and longer procedures, but unfortunately our reality is such that we can't get enough commercial loans to develop infrastructure. We don't have enough money. The state is too in charge. That's the problem. I know it's a shame if one of our domestic companies doesn't get a job. Yes, one part of the profits is poured out of Serbia and part of the profits paid out of the credit, which are paid out by the citizens, whether from the budget or through some action that is monopoly thanks to the position of the public service provider. In any case, one part of the sea has to stay, and we get a piece of infrastructure or something else that we need to start developing business and changing Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9462	Thank you. Mr. Michael, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9463	I mentioned "Icarbus" and I will remain consistent with that case in this situation. No one disputes the right and desire for all of us to make the state of Serbia look better and to settle. It's just, it's an interest. We're absolutely up for it and the state, if she can't afford it herself, she should take the loan. It's totally undeniable. What is controversial for us is that, for example, in the purchase of these buses for the city of Belgrade, the EBRD has set such conditions that no domestic producer, not only of Icarbus, has in Nis a manufacturer and in Novi Sad a bus, cannot report on the tender. The condition of the tender, by the size of the job, the production of a certain number of buses, can only be met by foreign companies. We have come to the situation that we, with the money that the citizens of Serbia are going to return, are going to buy buses from either English or Polish or some other company, not Icarbus. Then we watch -- what is the interest of the city of Belgrade and what is the interest of Serbian citizens to obtain 130 or how many buses from Poland without buying 130 buses from Icarbus. That is what our dilemma is and why we have proposed this amendment. We don't actually have a dilemma here. We suggest that you accept this solution that, in our opinion, is better quality and that enables the equality of domestic producers in a competition match, in a tender with foreign companies and that we do not allow, as a state and as a Assembly, that the EBRD foreign banks that give us loans create such conditions to exclude the domestic producer. It is, in our opinion, inadmissible at this time, and it is in conflict with the national interest that we all stand for, for the growth of domestic production and for the recovery of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9464	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9465	I think this amendment is extremely interesting and would just mean that, with regard to this amendment, I have a statement from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on whether it is useful or not and how useful it is. Is it in line with the government policy that extended, practically, the validity of this law? What the parliamentary group wants, and what the whole, as the prime minister has said, is whether the government or the government has spoken of it today. In that sense, I am interested, because on the 144th page of the bill's reasoning is also an analysis of the effects of the regulation itself, but it is before that that part of the financial resources needed to implement this law, for example. to enforce the law is said... (President: Theme, Mr. Mikovic. )......................................................................................................... Yes, this amendment has something to do with this, with the means to implement the law itself, because it is said that financial resources will be provided in the budget to provide personnel and technical capacity and everything else. Now I'm asking, if the government hasn't come forward, if only part of the buffalo government is behind this bill and, for example, With regard to the clarifications on the amendment, I am interested in whether the whole bi-cephalic power will be defined when proposing the budget or budget rebalancing in relation to these funds needed. It has been said that all this will be planned in the budget. That's why I'm interested in whether only part of the buffalo government or the entire buffalo government or the government supports this, and among other things whether it has the same position on the subject of this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9466	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9467	Thank you. The measure of good law is the measure of its reality and therefore the DS did not make an amendment to this provision, not because we in some ideal world would not want to do so, but because we have to face conditions that are sometimes not the most favourable. Yes, we are shareholders of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we are shareholders of the World Bank, but small shareholders and rules of those institutions, in order to maintain their rating which is best in the world and to have interest that they are able to deliver to us, have their own rules. I think that's something we can accept and that under these circumstances elections for the best possible outcome for our businesses. I know there are experienced people in this home, not all in the conditions in which they deal with these international financial institutions. A lot can be provided within that framework, that our operation is well represented. Basically, there's a lot of room in the tender conditions, after that, in conditions that are given to someone who eventually gets a job as an international player. That battle wasn't stopped. We in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have had a series of meetings, that what sometimes ministers hold a better position for our businesses will not be lost when negotiations are reached at lower levels. But it's a wider story, and it would be unequivocally better if there were more domestic savings and more funding for our domestic savings projects and that we had that freedom, that we did what we wanted. Speaking of "Icarbus", a privatisation was conducted during your government that weakened him, a colleague of Michael's, was interrupted. Today, DS, as a party to which Belgrade is, has committed itself to being independent of the quality of what Icarbus is producing, that we will buy everything in the next two years that Icarbus is able to produce. Is that enough? I think it's stronger than this amendment that you suggested. It's an open door to Icarus to produce everything he can. He can't do any more, he can't do better than that, I think, but on Icarbus, it's the same responsibility because of the fact that they were supposed to deliver 32 buses yesterday for our citizens living in the capital, driving on new buses. Unfortunately, they can't do that. They'll be two to three months late, according to the latest information. I have to tell you that it would be much better for them to focus on fully meeting the plan that will deliver to them the city of Belgrade, and I think that when we finish with the total capacity that Icarbus can meet, then recognize reality, which is that the needs of Belgrade are even greater and that what is proposed, which is the purchase of a bus in an international tender, for which the financial resources are provided are not the subject of a new political dispute, but that good for the citizens, in accordance with this law that is proposed here tonight, we also get these additional buses. There is no policy, it is life and a better life for the two-million-dollar Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9468	Replica, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9469	Mr. Djelic, what I heard was why the bus was late because there was a late advance that the city was supposed to pay for the production of those buses. That's why those buses are late. That's what I heard from the City Hall and from Icarbus. It's simple, if we intend to raise the production of Icarbus, I totally agree. The city might have to sit down and make a deal with Icarbus - let's see what you need to make European-level buses, and that the city, as it invested in the PKK, invests something in "Icarbus" and that would be one solution that might benefit everyone. Why the privatisation of Icarbus failed, in my humble knowledge of the privatisation, Icarbus when it was privatised in the city of Belgrade and in other cities had no partner to sell buses. Look at the time of the privatisation of how many buses the city of Belgrade acquired during that period, and you'll see that someone cares about the privatisation, because maybe the Russians bought it, and someone didn't want to develop those projects then, so look at it. That's the information we had at the time officially from both the Russian embassy and the company. We can discuss all things here, we can open everything up, we don't have any problem with it, but we need to see how we can help domestic production the most. We will later have one amendment in this law to discuss the protection of domestic bidders in tenders or in public procurement proceedings. It's our interest here in general. "Icarbus" is one example. If we all intend to do something good for Icarbus, for Neobus, for Nibus and for other bus manufacturers in Serbia, then we should do it in deeds, not just words. Mr. Djelic, I want to believe that the city of Belgrade will buy all the buses that Icarbus can produce and I think that would be a very good decision, especially if the buses that the city is now going to get are almost twice as expensive as the bus that Icarbus can produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9470	The word is Mr. Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9471	Be assured that the city of Belgrade will meet what it has said it will do, as has been the case for the past four years. As a result, the people who led him received record support, under difficult circumstances and during the crisis. Yes, Belgrade will, as was the case in previous years after the failure of privatisation... Mr. Mihaylov, we worked together on the NIS privatisation and you know very well that we care about all privatisations when necessary succeed. Regardless of which countries they come from, so we have to stand up, in one neutral way towards everyone. It's the only way to make it work. On the other hand, let's admit that when we say that in the next two years we'll be all that Icarbus produces, we can't give it better conditions than these. It's a shame that, according to our latest information, and this advance wasn't a problem, but the problem was that at this point in time of 32 buses, unfortunately, only one ended. If he was late for a week's advance, I guess that's not why they stayed at one between zero and 32. If that is the case, then we must be responsible and say – we will work on "Icarbus" increasing capacity and making it as modern as possible, but Belgrade's needs cannot depend solely on the company to drive under civilized conditions and therefore need to be completed because Belgrade's needs are large, with additional purchases that can be made under this law, which I am confident will be voted on Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9472	The word is Mr. Michael's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9473	According to my information, the advance wasn't given to Icarbus, because it was waiting to secure a loan from the EBRD, and somehow both procedures went parallel. That may not be controversial for you somewhere, but it is for us. They needed funds to be given, and I believe employees at Icarbus would make sure that the Belgraders were given more comfortable driving than they are now driving. It is simply in the interest of all of us here that this law is also good and that public procurement procedures are such as to prevent corruption as much as possible and that citizens, not only Belgrade, but throughout Serbia, are better driven, as well as not only Icarbus, but Nibus and Neobus and all other companies are given the opportunity to participate in tenders and their buses are able to drive both in Belgrade and in other Serbian cities. Thus, this amendment aims to enable all bus manufacturers in Serbia to participate equally in all tenders. Not only bus manufacturers, but construction operations, this is where Mr Dinkic spoke about cable producers, the Jagodina cable factory, as well as all other producers. Such a provision simply excludes all domestic producers from the competition and the possibility of participating in public procurement. The domestic economy will suffer certain damages because it cannot participate in these tenders, but only as a subcontractor or as a small contractor, a errand boy, will work for large and powerful foreign companies. I think it's a fundamental problem and that we have to take care of it when we adopt these, as well as all other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9474	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 7 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9475	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 paragraph 1 of point 12, which reads - what is excluded from the procurement procedure, concerns the establishment of a working relationship, the conclusion of a contract on the conduct of temporary and occasional transactions and, as my amendment, the conclusion of copyright agreements on which authors, coauthors and performers are engaged in the meaning of a law governing copyright and related rights. I'm just saying that I'm really surprised that this amendment wasn't accepted, and I'm even more amazed by the explanation. You know, when I tried, since I suppose that mostly MPs were still in the memory of the discussions on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Law, if not before, at least this occasion had the opportunity to get acquainted with this law which clearly defines what is thought to be the author, what is considered an author's contract, the content of an author's contract, and it seems to me that at least this debate helped me understand the nature of cultural and artistic activity and that this area is also not obliged to apply the procedures of public procurement. I have to say that I have worked very hard to find a way for any of the envisaged procurement procedures, from that open call, the restrictive procedure, the negotiation procedure, the negotiation procedure, the qualification procedure, etc., how it is possible to apply to the area of creation, to the area of culture, to the field of art. Maybe it's best if I say it through an example. I would also say that whenever I tried to apply some of these public procurement procedures, for example, to the selection of drama works that would be performed at some stage of Serbian theatres or, for example, to the selection of music works or conductors to conduct the Belgrade Philharmonic, I came to the conclusion that it all seemed a little absurd, if not comical. Then it reminded me of one comedy, just one Nusician atmosphere, reminded me of one comedy by Branislav Nusic, I suppose well-known, and it's called "The People's MP". In one of those episodes, one personality of Spirnica teaches her niece that she should not marry a lawyer, Ivkovic, otherwise an opposition candidate for MP, but should support her father, Jevrem, a candidate of the ruling coalition for MPs. What she actually has to marry him when her father becomes an MP, so she says, "Jevrem will lead you to Belgrade as an MP, and then he'll take an impelation there, and then he'll get a concession from the state for the son-in-law." All of these were legal proceedings at the time. How does this Spirnica understand how to interpret and how to obtain concessions? Believe me, in my opinion, the way we're trying to apply this law in the field of culture and art is exactly like this Spirnica, because I don't know how a concession can get a son-in-law, I don't know how public procurement procedures can, for example. Dusan Kovacevic's work, Siniša Kovacevic, Ljuba Simovic, Dragoslav Mihailovic, is in the works of the Yugoslav Drama Theatre and National Theatre. I warned my DSS counterparts that their MP, Sinisa Kovacevic, would be in serious violation, will violate at least one dozen provisions of the Public Procurement Act, as I recently read that in March he should have a premiere at the National Theatre. His lyrics will be done, he will direct the show, and his daughter, an excellent young actress, Kalina Kovacevic will play one of the roles. In doing so, Ljiljana Blagojevic, his wife, works at the National Theatre. Do you know how much the provisions of the Public Procurement Act have been violated? I can't even count them. Or let's imagine now that we're doing a negotiation procedure or a qualification procedure, so that now some national theatre tender committee, in the form of a lawyer, economist, two cinema masters, one decorator, chooses a drama writer whose work will be performed on the scene of the National Theatre. Or should we ask JDP to write us some kind of instruction now that they've obtained "suspecting face" in the guessing process. It was Nusic's comedy performed a few months ago on the JDP scene, so it was some sort of instruction, but I think it'll be a comedy, too. I also know very well in March that the Belgrade Philharmonic should be conducted by one of the world's best musicians, Yuri Rakli. Explain to me what procedure we're going to bring in Raklin to conduct the Belgrade Philharmonic, when someone explains it to me, I'm going to say, I was wrong to submit this amendment. So, what is also amazing, but the explanation does not quote that part of this point of the bill, it is said to be exempt from the procurement process, the conclusion of a working relationship, the conclusion of a contract to carry out temporary and occasional transactions. In the Labour Law, 197, 198, etc., it is clearly defined what occasional, temporary jobs are, so even jobs can be done through a youth cooperative. Now, let's get back to that theater scene. You can engage tailors who sew those costumes without public procurement, especially for such large ensembles as "Suspecting Face" or "The People's Messenger". You can hire a cobbler without public procurement to make them wear those shoes. You can hire a carpenter who's going to tickle that huge set of things. You can work through a youth cooperative to hire wardrobes, courtships, porters, couriers, everything you can do past public procurement, but you just can't hire authors. You can't be a drama writer, you can't be a director, you can't be a music writer, and then you tell me more – because then that kind of engagement would be extended to the entire service space. This is humiliating and offensive to culture. You've brought her down to the service level. You've reduced the level of hospitality. So, she can go through the youth cooperative, go to the work contract. At the same time, we have the Tax Act, the income of citizens, uses the provisions of the Copyright Act, defines by the same principle as all authors, how much taxes are paid on copyright fees. All authors recognise the normised costs and direct taxes on copyright fees are incomparably lower. The normised costs shall be recognised up to 50%. Only the Public Procurement Act does not recognise the right of the author. The only law on public procurement makes us either make a comedy or we figure out the law. Why would we do that? In doing so, let me put it this way, I don't mind the promoter, it wasn't better in that law either. You don't think I'd put an amendment on him, too. In practice, it turned out to be a big problem. In practice, it turns out that the budget inspection asks the "Yugokoncept" how did you get Martha Argelec to play for you at BEMUS, Munich Philharmonic, Paris Stone Quartet? Where is the application of the Public Procurement Act here? It doesn't matter that the art director of BEMUS is one of the largest Serbian composers Zoran Eric. So, the promoters, i.e. I am asking the motionary's representative, all the time, are claiming - we have prepared the best possible law, let's fix what has been shown in practice, not that it is not good, but it is humiliating. We humiliated culture with a culture budget, and we humiliate it with this law. Accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9476	By amendment, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9477	I just want to say that at this moment of crisis, this is one of those things you can do for culture and above all for top-notch creators that mean a lot to our people. They're from all political options. This is how you can make them equal members of our society and simply adopt this amendment to ensure that their treatment is equal to other treatments that they have in particular in tax laws and that at least partially compensate for what happened in the budget that was recently voted here, and one of the reasons why we in DS didn't vote for that budget is that he destroyed the culture. In it, unlike what has been announced, there are no dinars for serious construction works, and what is even worse, there are significantly reduced funds for any creative activity. With so much less money, at least let our key creators not live in fear of breaking the law. Make sure they're equal citizens of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9478	Mr. Stefanovic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9479	I think this is one of those opportunities, Mr. Arsic, when you can show that you didn't seriously mean it a few times when you might have lost it to compare your intellectual level. This is one of those opportunities in which the ruling coalition can prove that it cares about Serbian culture. This is one of those opportunities where he can take care of his proven authors, not end up getting national pensions and fighting over who gets it sooner. This is one of those opportunities that our culture ends not just on Maja Nikolic, but on some of the more important authors. This is one of those opportunities where you, as most of you, as most of you, with a really mild hand move, can approve this good thing for this society and this country. If this isn't one of those opportunities, then tell me what this public procurement will look like for three ladies ministers, for three suspicious faces, explain to us in practice what it will look like and what our cultural reality will look like unless you adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9480	MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9481	You see, on this amendment, we don't have a government statement. I have a business card for Brac Petkovic, the truth is I don't have a cell phone on it, but I have a stable phone and I have, so how do we get to the minister? True, he is not a member of the party whose parliamentary group has proposed this law. Are you a member of the party? A team before, if it's a member of the party, that we don't happen to have a problem after the minister in his portfolio, to bring down culture, precisely because of the adoption of such a law on public procurement. If it's a member of the party, I assume that you can somehow get to the mobile phone, so let's take a break, if it takes two, three minutes to provide a statement and a certain way to get the promoter to accept this useful amendment and get out of trouble. I think it's absolutely fine, that it's useful for the overall state of culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9482	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9483	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, judging by the fire, are most likely to like my political opponents. This is where Nusic was mentioned. He's a well-known writer, he wrote, and I think it's the "Political Adversary". So, not only are the former regimes, cultural scientists there are others who know it well. A reflection of their culture was seen before my speech. So that's the amount of jam, I don't know what I deserve, that kind of noise. I'm most likely to irritate them. I irritate them with the truth. Now that we're talking about comedy and the tragedy Nusic wrote, but since you mentioned it, let's see your comedy. Let's see that heart defender of yours, let's see your public procurement. Let's see the University. Why a public procurement called the University, why a company that was founded for that purpose, why did it become a state secret? Why is it not known how much your very good, hearty, overrich defender of this amendment is, why is he and how he appointed the artistic director? How much did he pay for it? Are we ever gonna find out? Why did it become a secret in the archives? Why can't you know that? Is it comedy or is it a tragedy? Today you're telling us something about our law on public procurement, let's see what you've done before? So, what was the party of the former regime doing? Speaking of Nusic, he wrote other works of literature: "Government", "Deathful Face", "The Road around the World", "The People's Messenger", but he also wrote "Mister of Dollars". You've traveled around the world, you're political, let's not call you after this story, you've been in power, whether you're dead or not, but "Mr. Dollar" you have. He just got up so loud, so loud, so loud, clapping with his own speech, that I think his palms hurt, that he'll be hurt for three days. Let's see this Mr. Dollar to explain to us this University, how it happened, who was the art director, how the money was paid, how much it was paid, whose sons did it, etc., to see all the conflicts of interest they're talking about under this law. Let him stand up, Mr. Dollar or Mr. $12 million, and the president of the party is Mr. Billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9484	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9485	President, we understand the view, I don't even have to point out Article 107. This is what I say most well-intentioned. I'm glad that's true. I think it is clear to you and me and all MPs that the previous speaker hurt both 106 and 107, he was completely out of the picture, using, indeed, inadequate, inadequate and offensive qualifications, sending strange views towards our parliamentary group and pointing a finger at the same time as the threatening term. I ask you to give him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9486	I realized that the previous speaker quoted Mr Nusic's actions, I think it referred to "The People's MP", certain characters from these illustrations, but I certainly ask all the MPs to return to the debate. Mr. Arsic, I saw you in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9487	In order not to be the one that destroys culture, I would ask you to read Article 36 of the Law, which is a negotiating procedure without publishing the invitation to tender, so it is said - the client can conduct the negotiation procedure without publishing the call for tenders, and in point 1. — where, in an open or restrictive procedure, no offer has been received, or any application or all offers are inadequate, provided that the original subject-matter of public procurement and the conditions for participation in the procedure, technical specifications and criteria for the award of the contract are not changed, and under two – if, for technical or artistic reasons, the subject-matter of public procurement or for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights of supply can be executed only by a specific tenderer. So it seems to me that if we accept this DS amendment which is not contrary to Article 36 paragraph 1(2), except in one part - this contract must be published. How does it stay if this law doesn't apply to it? Article 7 contains the provisions of the law to which this law is not applicable, exceptions. Then we make Article 36, paragraph 1, point 2) completely superfluous. The only difference, by accepting this amendment, would be that if you hire someone, you will not have the obligation to publish the contract and the value of the contract for that job that works. If that's the problem, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9488	MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9489	Thank you, Mr. President. I would agree with my colleague Arsic, I answered, I was just about to say that the bill allows this and that there is no reason to adopt such an amendment. As I recall, I think that when a colleague was passed the previous law, she stood up for the same thing and we didn't accept it then, that even under the existing law she couldn't, so I don't see any reason to raise this much tension. I think this is a good thing, that it stands, that it's supposed to be transparent.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9490	Dr. Alexander Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9491	Your Honor, gentlemen, at first I thought this was a joke by DS, but I see it's a serious matter. The author's work, by definition, has its author, has its performer, has a protected name. How do you think you get the author's work in multiple copies of public procurement? How can Sinisa Kovacevic, who, for example, wrote one authorial piece, get himself into several copies? How do you even expect this to be the subject of public procurement if someone who has a theater or a theatre show or a movie can be the subject of public procurement? How can someone who has signed their authorial work be printed in multiple copies?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9492	National MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9493	Mr. Radenkovic, thank you, I really feel this as a support, because that's exactly what I'm talking about. So we didn't get along well. As for the arguments he gave, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Arsic, Mr Arsic, what you claim, since I have an amendment to Article 36 and I know it very well, it is still a public procurement in which, it is to say in Article 2. – if, for technical reasons, and what you have read, protection of exclusive rights can only be exercised by a specific bidder. Explain to me – how you will decide now between Dusan Kovacevic, Siniši Kovacevic and Ljuba Simovica who is that particular bidder and how you will explain that Siniša Kovacevic is the particular bidder whose work should be performed on the scene of the National Theatre. I use his name, I apologize to Sinishi, because he's a fellow MP, so we know him. In that same article that you are defending an explanation for why you reject this amendment – the contracting officer is obliged to take the negotiated procedure out of position before the launch of the negotiation procedure, etc. request the Public Procurement Administration to give an opinion on the basis of the application of the negotiation procedure. I'm asking you again. Now you have to, for example. The Belgrade Philharmonic to send the Public Procurement Administration a request to grant it a negotiating procedure since it must and in this procedure to respect the principle of competition, whether it will hire Raklin or Uroš Lajovic or Dejan Savic, since he is also a conductor and then the Public Procurement Administration will say – what kind of a Lajovic, like Raklin, here is our Dejan Savic, he is the most favourable, he is a domestic conductor. Then the Department of Public Procurement, it takes ten days to approve, to convince her that it should be this very conductor, not this one, so that he can deliver it to the National Theatre or someone else, and explain his opinion. Guys, this is exactly what I said, Mr. Arsic. Please accept the amendment. Otherwise, by finesseing the application of the law, using this particular article 36, we're going to make a comedy. We have no other way, but to apply Article 36. I agree with you, but in these situations, man, how you don't realize that it's all a game, that it's all just a figure of speech to respect the law as much as possible. Is that what we want? In doing so, I told you, if some laws are strict, these are laws in the field of tax policy. Please take the Income Tax Act. On the same principle that I propose public procurement respects the provisions of the Copyright Act, even tax laws respect those provisions. Tax laws, not to respect, but to move on, treat authors, artists very favourably, release them from some of the normized costs. Vajari, 50% of their fee that can be $10,000, tax only pays to five grand. The IRS realized that it was something specific, that it was something authentic, that it was something important. In the absence of deception, do you know – how many employees in Serbia's culture? There was my colleague, Snezana Plassic, until yesterday she was the secretary of state. I don't see former Minister Predrag Markovic. So there's a total of about 2,600 funded by the Ministry of Culture. In doing so, 60-70% of people in the administrative and technical sector are employed, I think it's 30-40. So it's about 700-800 people. There are 300 employees in Belgrade. It's about 300 in the art sector. Thousands of people in Serbia, a thousand and a few independent artists, don't let them, in every way possible, question them with a budget in culture, pay their contributions to independent artists, and now we'll make them go to the negotiation process, decide on their fate by the Public Procurement Authority, decide by the tender commissions, decide on the officials in charge of public procurement of cultural institutions. Do you know who these people are? We'll be back at the worst time of self-management, where there were working councils in which not artists sat, but the workers, the technicians, the honor of them, but they decided on repertoire. This law makes us do the same thing. We all laughed then that the working advice of a theater where it sits, of course, some union man, a firefighter, some stage master, some technician, a maid, all the honor of them, but it wasn't a job to determine what would be played, what would be on the repertoire, what would be in the gallery exhibition program. We all made fun of it, and it was self-control time. We believed it was a long time ago. The law also now imposes the same kind of obligation, that some tender commissions, some public procurement officers, may the public procurement administration decide what art, which is more important, which offer is more favourable. By what criteria? For convenience, for competitiveness, for classification, etc.? Please accept this amendment. We have protection in the Copyright and Related Rights Act. It says clearly who he refers to. We'll save the culture and save all of us from embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9494	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one gets involved here, this law does not interfere with what's going to happen on the repertoire. It's the thing of someone who runs a certain facility. This law interferes with, for example, the choice of performers, but no one, but nobody in particular prevents a negotiating process from being initiated, to define the price, to conclude the contract and to publish it. By accepting this amendment, as it is, regardless of my confidence in the best intentions of the amendment, it is for the right to, say, only one or several persons have the privilege to participate continuously in the field of culture in some institution and that no one else has the right to do so anymore. If you start with a story now that you don't trust the Department of Public Procurement that she wants to give consent and not interfere with it, now, give me the right not to trust the directors of cultural institutions, not to hire and share profits with them. Here, I claim-- both are responsible. But then I don't see what the problem is with Article 36. The law? I really don't understand. So here's the question of a safeguard mechanism, that this area that you're now defending is being protected from abuse. No one's stopping you from hiring whatever star you want, if you have something on the repertoire, it just takes you 10 days to make it happen with the Public Procurement Department, which should give you some consent. I don't see what the problem is, unless someone wants to know how much money was used for such a purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9496	Thank you. The word has Božidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9497	I have to tell you that at this moment of crisis, some very important things may not be financed, and we have an understanding. But we have no understanding that the brightest names of our culture are brought into fear that they will not comply with the law or that, in order to carry out a normal season, they will be introduced into absurd steps. I think a colleague, a doctor, from the last row, from your MP's club, may have deliberately and perhaps accidentally given very valid arguments that your political party accepts what is well-meaning, which is to ensure that culture can function. You see, when you suggest things like this, I can ask you the same thing, to see how absurd things are, since you had some sound names, did you hold a tender for Giuliani? How did you get to him? Have you consulted the Public Procurement Authority and will you release the contract you made with him?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9498	Thank you. The word is Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9499	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me get this straight first. I didn't give any support, I just reminded myself of the period when we passed the previous law. The same was proposed by the DS to accept one such amendment or similar, I can't remember and then it wasn't accepted. I see no reason why it is now required to accept it when it simply cannot be implemented in this bill, because in this way, as it stands now, order is being introduced. This is a practice known in Europe. First, I don't understand, because it depends on the client who's gonna hire this member. It's just that this has to be done like this, and it's arranged just to control the citizens' money. You can't do that now, if this is adopted, then we don't have order and then whoever they want and who they want and how much they want to make contracts with. It's really wrong, and I think we're going to move on to the amendments, because this is totally unacceptable and there's no reason for that, because I'm saying it's nice in the article, and it's written and it's precise that in the negotiation process it can be engaged for artistic reasons of public procurement or for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights. There's no need for this, believe me, especially, I remind you again that it didn't go the same way the last time we passed those laws. It didn't pass, so it wasn't acceptable to them back then. It can't be acceptable now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9500	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9501	I have long waited for a replica, simply, unwise mention of the MP, our colleague and one of the most serious drama writers, alive in Serbia, Sinisha Kovacevic and his family, who are all fine artists. Simply, in terms of trying to sort of put it into function here. I don't think it's relevant, and I think a much better comparison would have been that you took the situation at Atelee 212 since the summer, when the entire acting ensemble protested against the director's will, who violated, as they said then, their right to do art, to act and their artistic expression. That would be a much better comparison than this, because then in that situation, when one of our best actors we have in Serbia is now, all of them almost stopped at defending their profession against the self-will of one of the directors who was self-determining the plays they were going to be. He shared them with his friends, and he directed them himself in other theatres. He came up with a situation where one closed circle was made and those actors who absolutely didn't belong to any political option all rebelled and sought the shift and resolution of that director. They waited a long time for it, to enable them to exercise their right and to be the actors who would ask the most questions about the art program, what performances to be performed and how it would be done. You are absolutely right not to need these fathers, accountants and others to ask themselves, but those who produce culture, who produce works of art and who participate in the production of these works and who realize them, should be the center of this amendment and allow them in the best possible way to achieve their artistic rights. I would only ask that Siniša Kovacevic and his family do not interfere in this one debate, which is once below the level of Parliament itself, but take an example of Atelije 212, Kokan Mladenovic and the entire act ensemble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9502	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9503	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to respond to Parliamentarian Dean Michael's remarks. I had absolutely no intention of using the name Sinisha Kovacevic in any other context, but to point out the absurdity of applying the Law on Public Procurement and in this case. After all, the great drama of his playing at the National Theatre is one of the most watched plays. So I just used my name to show the absurdity of this law. This is now a replica of what Mr. Dejan Radenkovic said. First, I couldn't stand the amendment. I felt, as I now see Mr Veroljub Arsic and Mr Radovic, that it is impossible to apply such a law on public procurement, with all these procedures with guessing and public procurement administrations, in culture. It's applied. I've already told you that we had a problem and we didn't all think it was impossible, that culture is something else, that it's completely autonomous, but I'm telling you that this way that you stand up to the arguments that we make to accept this amendment, you continue to humiliate and insult people from culture. I'm talking about institutions and organisations of the Republic and the City, etc. which is financed from the budget. People, are you questioning all of them, then, there are a lot of colleagues who worked in local self-government both in Belgrade City and in the republican ministries? Do you know that there is no payment from the budget without clearly delivered bills for each spent dinar? Then how else do you suspect someone's gonna spend it now and split it? An entire ensemble of performances and a great drama Siniši Kovacevic and "Suspecting face" and almost performed "Ottello" and "Antagon" on Sunday, it all falls under what is called a small procurement. Why don't you explain to me how we're going to get the great artists into small purchases when they're all worth one small purchase?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9504	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9505	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems that when we talk about art, the atmosphere changes even in parliament, but I would like to stress the seriousness of this proposal and, of course, to support my colleague Gorica Mojovic, and also my colleague, Mr Mikovic, who has proposed a kind of co-ordination with the Ministry of Culture, so, with the government, so also with the rest of the ministry. We have already spoken on several previous occasions, when we had the Law on Public Enterprises and Criminal Law, where certain members and solutions were tried to interfere in the area of media independence, so we are trying to regulate a part of what is called the functioning of cultural institutions. I am convinced that if you consulted the Ministry of Culture or local self-government, which is the founders of cultural institutions, you will get more than a lot of evidence that this amendment makes sense, because it stemmed from examples of practices and huge problems faced by directors and artists in the daily application of the Public Procurement Act. What we need to understand is that cultural institutions are not an enterprise and do not operate by the same principles. That is why they are regulated by a special law, not by the Company Act, but by the Culture Act. Here, the principle of the most favourable offer cannot be a top principle. The principle in culture is the talent and artistic value of one piece, and it cannot be measured by setting out the best offer, so I ask you to take this proposal seriously and not to look at it, which should not otherwise, as a proposal from one party, but as a proposal from those who have applied this law face a huge number of problems that threaten artistic freedoms in the far line. Take this proposal seriously. I support him. I believe that if you were to consult with people in culture, you would realize that it is necessary to facilitate their work by adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9506	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9507	These are topics that should be carefully considered and really do not deserve such difficult qualifications, as we have heard in several discussions, that someone with someone will share something, not so easy a qualification that someone knows what it is worth, what a worthless work of art, simply the contemporaries never know, but it is a specific matter. I know the Law on the National Assembly, and without that law, the MP has the right to his opinion and no one can call him to account, so I don't need the Government's opinion on any amendment, that without it I can't decide how I vote. I will certainly decide whether I will vote for this amendment once again when I look closely at it in relation to whether it has been solving the problem that exists for years, that's what everyone has said, and it goes beyond that in most cases, it is not correct to talk about it in detail, because colleagues have provided accurate information on how to overcome this problem in practice and what is not good. Certainly, it would be good if we had a system solution, and certainly there's no need for such difficult qualifications and such harsh reactions, because those who care about culture, they care and it doesn't matter to any party, nor does it matter to them in such a way that they get points. Those who do not care are indifferent and most citizens know that when it comes to high-art works. My request is to talk again. I also ask the promoter to simply look at the extent to which it is or is not possible to address this problem in a given amendment, which does not really rest on someone defending artists and someone not defending them. If the time is changed, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Here is one of the very competent ones for this matter, and Mrs. Mojovic reminded perfectly that the tax system is that and how well it is solved or at least in a good direction, participated in a debate where we said it was wrong to leave a heavy interest, because the most important interest in Serbia does not exist within the framework of the law, so whether it will be the most important interest of a director or someone from self-management or someone from public procurement, it is not good, because the only significant interest that in our literature exists is the one that explains Joseph from Babusnica how he should do something for the law, so it is said – I put your case here, Joseph, here put one law, and one more, so if I don't know what he weighs, I do this little finger as executive power and weigh. It's Nusic. There is no need to create an atmosphere from Nusic's comedies, this is a serious question. As far as a small number of people are concerned, there is one very specific action and very specific problem, and we have no reason not to try through this amendment or about this amendment, but there is really no need to take everyone's time now, to talk one more time, because it will certainly not be decided by one party in the vote, but by the parliamentary majority of those present, as well as Belgrade, thank God, not by one party, but by the institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9508	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've reduced everything here to culture. I'm sorry DS didn't recognize this four and a half years ago. She is one of her MPs, and I didn't notice my colleagues from the DS who cheered so warmly when their minister rejected the amendment's proposal, but it doesn't matter. Here, I admit that you're right, but what in the law bothers you to hire whoever you want? You've been given the right to be a member of the 36th Law. Unfortunately, a large and sounding name in the area of culture has been mentioned here. I think there's a bit of disabling the people because this applies to all the authors, as well as the authors in terms of the law governing copyright, so we've had changes and additions to that law here, etc. I agree that culture is in crisis. That's how many performers I wouldn't exactly put into cultural performers to get what they're singing in the squares, money from local self-government. The only protection mechanism is the 36th member of this bill, to publish a point I don't know what's so terrible that it has to be announced how much money will be spent. Bring whoever you want. If there's money for that purpose, whoever you want, but whoever gave you that money has the right to know who you spent the money on, is it meaningful or not, or is it the biggest problem in Article 36? It's a bill of law. Article 36 says – in the case of the position of the 12th member, the decisions shall be submitted in the original form of the Public Procurement and DRI. Is that your biggest problem, and that's why you're submitting an amendment to Article 7? Looks to me like it is. So any argument that you have stated why your amendment should be accepted is rejected by Article 36 paragraph 1 point 2). What's important is that you have to know how much money is spent when you bring in a performer. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9510	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9511	I have a replica because Mr. Markovic mentioned that he didn't need the help of the minister or the government. I need it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9512	Mr. Mikovic, on that basis, you really didn't have the right replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9513	Of course not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9514	You're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9515	Well, then I'm using my time. I am resented that I have asked here for the Ministry and Government to be declared on the subject of the amendment, because at point 2 of Article 36, it stands – if the procurement can only be carried out by a certain bidder, one single author of one dramatic piece or conductor or anyone else, there may be more. It only works here when the procurement can be made by a specific bidder, so it can't be applied to Article 36. That is why all the reasons are to accept Mrs Gorica Mojovic's amendment. The only way I could understand and support the position of the promoter is if I'm the last member of 178, just a moment of law enforcement, and the law will apply from 1 April 2013 only to take it as a first-prime joke. Then let's take this as a joke. Otherwise, I think we should take this law seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9516	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9517	I agree that this law should be taken seriously and taken very seriously. Much more serious, because on April 1st, it was from June 2008 to July, August 2012. I see how serious or funny you are, call whatever you want, whatever situation you've put us in. Since you've taken all this as a first-april joke, why didn't you accept your law on public procurement? Don't blame us not for us. We don't take this as a joke. We see the government as a serious business, a responsible job, not for ourselves, but for the citizens. It seems to me that our and your perception of power differs, and that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9518	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9519	I still have to answer this, because first of all, this is about...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9520	I'm sorry, please, you can't answer, but you can point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9521	I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured because the MP directly addresses the other People's Parliament, Article 27. You are required to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and not to allow direct address to another MP. Secondly, I think there can be no speech about what Mr. Arsic said, because we are absolutely responsible for this law, unlike the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which in no way wanted to be determined on the matter of the law and amendments. No amendments that are not agreed within the competent committee. Obviously, what the opposition is trying to do here is much more serious and responsible than the buffalo government, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, as Prime Minister Dacic himself said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9522	I don't think I hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, especially because of the arguments that the Government must declare itself on the bill proposed by someone in the National Assembly. The National Assembly decides in the day to vote whether some amendments or laws will be accepted and I believe that the National Assembly is an organisation, or body in this country that is roofy and does not have to account for the Government. Conversely, the government has to account for us. So if the government gives an opinion, that's better, if it doesn't, in that case the National Assembly will definitely determine and each of us will vote in the voting day as it thinks. I suggest we move on to work. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9523	I was about to bring this part of the conversation to an end, try to make some sublimation of everything we heard. Mr. Arsic, what our people would say is that you slaughter ox for a kilo of meat. We have done everything as DS, my distinguished colleague Mojovic has submitted an excellent amendment, you are unnecessarily stubborn. Not in the pervasive sense, but in this case, I think you've had one great opportunity to make a significant step. We've explained to you why we don't think this is good, and we've explained to you that it's not the member that you've listed that includes matter. I don't see what the problem is, except you just want to be stubborn in this case. There's one thing you said that I don't think is correct. If you think that because of a few performers in the squares, which you mentioned, all the authors should pay, and they will pay for not accepting this amendment, then you probably think of the gentleman who was supposed to sing in Novi Sad, so Mr. Vukic rebuked you for it. Is that what you mean? Veroljub Arsic, from among other places. I don't know why you mentioned it in the context of DS. That's what happened to your mayor in Novi Sad. Mr. Vukic reprimanded him correctly, and you accepted it. Then there's a cut in the amount, though even today they won't say in Novi Sad how much it's going to cost. It's the principle that you're going to introduce, through an agreement for the author's work, which is offensive to every author, because it's his job, where a commission or someone is going to negotiate as a siblings to determine what is an art and what isn't, because you think art is everything in the square, and it's not. A very simple thing, this amendment helps make the law better. We want to arrange a part of the social event that this member does not arrange. I don't see why you won't do it, but what I'm looking forward to is seeing you when I talk to you and when I talk to you, when you listen to what I'm saying, you understand that I'm right. I don't know why you're so stubborn, and you won't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9524	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9525	In one part I can also agree with you, which is that it is one of those reasons why an amendment to Article 7 is not accepted. Do you think there wouldn't be any bigger ones, I can't say abuse, but one non-chalant relationship with the funds provided by the citizens? Gentlemen, the law for the first time applies to all the same, and to those of the DSS, and to these DSS, and to the SPS and SNS. The law is the same. If such an application had been in recent years, believe me, we wouldn't be in these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9526	The replica was sought by Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9527	Dear President, I'll be brief, since we mix frogs and grandmothers here. The law on public procurement treats a business officer in a culture who has the right to choose an institution where something will be extorted. These facilities can be better or worse, bidders more expensive or cheaper. He treats artists who aren't authors either. Artists can also be better, worse, worse, these, those who, whoever, don't matter. The author and the author's work are absolutely not touched by this law. So any performer can be called to any author's work if he gets the consent of that author to perform his work. The performer is a service provider, which can be treated by this law as well as the institutions in which this work is performed, or, it doesn't matter if it's an art, an author's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9528	Mr. Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9529	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to bring the end, because this really doesn't make sense. Tax taxpayers' money has to be controlled. What we're talking about about small purchases, it can't be the subject of small public procurement, it's the subject of negotiating work. Whoever claims to have been doing it in small public procurements, small purchases are calculated on an annual basis and means that it was not in accordance with the law. Culture must not be excluded and it must function in accordance with the law. Now don't talk about us having something against culture. A negotiation procedure must be conducted. They must be placed under the control of the resources of the citizens. Don't try to let it out of this law and let it be beyond control. It just can't. I don't understand that someone can be bothered by the introduction of order in culture and if they're trying to control public finances. It's completely incomprehensible. I really don't understand, and you can't convince me. If that made sense, I would support it as someone who really advocates the truth. This really doesn't make sense. My colleague, she's not standing and she's not in line with some of the norms. I'm telling you, there's such a law in Europe. He can't. You want us to simplify now. What does it mean if we exempt it from the law, then it's gonna do whatever it takes and who's gonna do what they want and who's gonna pay what they want? Don't do that. Then let the show there, which has nothing to do with the relationship, cost who knows how much. Why? What's the problem, I don't understand? So, the orderer picks the performer, talks to him. You, co-worker, bang on the head, slap a little harder, so you wouldn't be talking about all this stuff that you're saying here and I can't believe it, if you've ever done anything in your life, then you should know the basics. It can't be a small subject of small procurement, it has to be the subject of a negotiating procedure. Don't do that again and let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9530	Mrs Mojovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9531	I'm afraid to continue this story, but I'm not going to give up, because we're getting deeper and deeper into something that is, to say, scaring people and humiliating culture. I can't believe it anymore and I apologize for reacting this way, Mr. Radenkovic, because I can't believe what you're talking about. I can't believe you're saying it can't be a small supply. I said that one whole process, one whole ensemble of performances, one whole BEMUS isn't worth as much as one small purchase, I meant up to three million. That's the amount. I'm sorry Mr. Arsic isn't here. Some imputation to need someone to hide some money, to share – people, in the 2013 Culture Ministry budget, no one supported me when I gave the amendment to add at least 500 more, the total for all programmes and projects in Serbia has less than 500 million dinars. So, for 26 republican institutions, 14 from Kosovo, hundreds of different cultural and artistic societies, and there are colleagues from the ministry, 500 million, and now we, and I said that both the ministry and local self-government are controlling it, and no one can get money from the budget without justice. What Mr. Arsic tells me, too, is that I use some names, like, not to repeat, some famous drama writers. For example, to mention some directors – Jagos Markovic, Milos Lolic, Egon Savin, I only talk about theatre. Not to mention some writers, Bashar, not to mention names. All of them, directors, actors, I will not mention actors because this will cause a new series of replicas, performers, interpreter – Isidora Žebeljan, the biggest composer of serious music, the youngest member of SANU, who is also a member of the BEMUS Committee. It's not enough that Zoran Erić is artistic, that Isidora Žebelje is a member of the art committee, no, there's going to be something they're going to do on that BEMUS and share some money. I'm glad Mr. Arsic's back. I don't want to be imputed to what he says, that I want this amendment to hide something from the public. Okay, well, is it a problem to say that it's being published, and then it's all being published? One more thing, my dear colleagues. You are not in the explanation for why you reject this amendment, quote this whole point 12, but at the beginning I said what is to be excluded – the establishment of a working relationship and the conclusion of a contract to carry out temporary and occasional jobs. I don't know how many hundreds of dinars, temporary and occasional jobs can be done in cultural institutions, because of course they don't have employees. I also mentioned those tailors and, believe me, sometimes they get paid a lot more than costume designers or screenwriters. Alexander Denić, the world's top screenwriter, who works more in Germany, with the world's most famous directors, did not get it from the public procurement process – small, large, with guessing, etc.? You don't mind, none of you mind taking temporary and occasional jobs, taking the Labour Act, seeing what's considered temporary and occasional jobs. Do you know what all manipulations were about hiring people through the Youth Cooperative? And they're concerned with this release and they don't fall under public procurement. That's what it says at this point 12, and only artists. Should it, Mr. Arsic, be published? Of course we're going to publish. There's not a single dollar spent in culture, and it's derived from the budget -- I don't know maybe you have some other experience, I don't have any. As for Belgrade, I know that even a taxi bill cannot be paid without being delivered to the Culture Secretariat to pay the bill, let alone the fee. Absolutely not. No, on the contrary. You don't insist on publishing who got a job, since this point is 12. No public procurement. Who got a contract without public procurement, a deal on a part for temporary and occasional jobs? It's not a condition you're setting, but it's the authors that have to. How many authors do we have? One more thing, it's New Year's Eve and I don't care, Mr. Arsic who's gonna sing in the squares. I want to know what 365 days will be done by people in museums, galleries, theatres, cultural centres, the Belgrade Philharmonic, the South Concert. That's what I want to know. Surely all eyes are against the public and are always most interested in how much anyone has won for new years' performances, but I am also telling you that there is not a single penny spent in these significant cultural institutions of Serbia that are not known for, so before being given out of the budget. Don't impute me to want to do it less publicly. If that's the problem, we'll make a correction, we'll text, everything gets published, and this is how it's got to be published. Everything needs to be known. Don't say I want to hide all that money that's going around in culture. Please, you won't accept the amendment. You'll accept that all those who are through youth, by these contracts, by those contracts, hundreds of millions, that doesn't have to be made public. You'll be remembered for being fully aware of it, I said it wasn't true that I wrote an amendment to that law, but it wasn't a good law, I'd give the amendment to that law. They remember my colleague that I have given 24 amendments to the Culture Act that my coalition has filed in this House. Unfortunately, only 11 were adopted. Now I've only proposed two amendments. I'm asking one of you to adopt. Don't ever accuse me again and make any new accusations that someone's trying now, you'll end up accusing me of not supporting the fight against corruption and crime. I support, Your Honor, honestly, the most honest. Is that correct? Support this amendment, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9532	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9533	This is really already pointless. We speak very clearly, you heard my colleague Mojovic, very effectively explained, Mr Arsic, what is it about. There's only one thing that burned my ears off that you said. Find a performer who, for example, is not Djordje Balašević, but looks like him and plays his songs. He can do this if Balašević gives him the copyright to do it for less money and then you make that commission, negotiate, determine that this one is the same as Balašević, has a beard, is a little fuller, balder, from Novi Sad is, plays the same songs, but it is not Balašević, and it costs less. That's what you do by not accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9534	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Veličković. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9535	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our group has tabled an amendment to Article 7. Article 7 following Article 4 adds a new position 5, which reads as follows: "In the case of acquisitions referred to in point (2) of Article 1(2) of this Article, the contracting authority shall apply all provisions of this law which are not contrary", I stress, "with special procedures of international organisations providing domestic operators with the same status in the realisation of transactions financed from these credits. "I'm sorry, Mr. Jeremiah. I ask the MPs for a little attention so Mr. Jeremic can finish his presentation. Please continue. This is very important. With this amendment, many MPs referred to Article 7, are being resolved and brought to the same level of business, domestic and foreign contractors. Why does this matter? If we're making a trip, it's important for us to make a trip, and it's important who makes the way. It is important who will participate in the construction of roads, with which machines, with which labor, with which resources and with which raw materials, are domestic or foreign. If we're lending it, and it's credited by the people of this country. The promoter gave us an explanation that international organisations funded by international investors, and we insist and did not mention international investors. We're talking about foreign creditors. It's a second term. It's very important for us to get the way, if we make it. It is also important who builds this road and with what means. My colleague, Gorica Gajic, explained this very nicely and there is no need to explain it further. In my writing, I explained in detail this amendment. I think it would be correct, and especially after so many discussions, I didn't ask to delete a member, but to add this amendment. I think it's good and it can be incorporated into this law and it can give positive effects, especially for this dead economy that needs to be launched, and I think that public works, or works on public buildings, such as roads, bridges, factories, can be a shock to start an economy in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9536	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9537	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the Green Serbs refers to the fact that those who perform the work of dieting children of pre-school and school age are obliged to provide the necessary products by obtaining organic domestic certified products exclusively from domestic producers. This is very important because it has been observed that inadequate nutrition and unhealthy nutrition leads to obesity, a fall in immunity and the occurrence of diabetes in children. The explanation I got is that if there are objective reasons for prescribing certain requirements. Unfortunately, what we don't understand is that children's health is not an objective thing, but an extremely subjective and personal matter. That's why it seems to me that what you call in Article 13 and the principle of environmental protection is just a mask for I don't know who, the EU. When I listen to you, I feel like I'm more conservative than all of you and I'm slowly starting to give up the EU because of the way you want to join the EU. You can define the reserved purchase in Article 3 and explain the meaning of that expression and then open the possibility of introducing this in the way you reject it. Of course the soda will always be cheaper than fruit juice. If you think it's better if we give our children sodas than fruit juices, then let's stop health care, because we don't need prevention, we need treatment. Let's tear down the filters, because we don't need environmental protection when we have the drugs to treat ourselves. Mrs. Gajic of the DSS has said nicely that not all the opposition can draw for you. Fortunately, I'm not that conservative, but I like to draw, so I'll explain to you that you could say that schools and kindergartens are objects that prepare for children. If you're interested in what products they are, they produce by purpose and quality, for organic food, because it's about our children. Now I'm a bigger conservative and a bigger nationalist than you, and I can't be. Which suppliers and manufacturers, the Organic Production Act exists, and those who have a certificate. You have an agrarian budget that provides for the subsidisation of organic production. That's why it's important that what you've been pointing out all these years, I've spent a little more time behind the TV screen watching how you deal with politics, and you've kept insisting on the essence, not the form, and now you insist on explaining to me some form -- if there are objective reasons, etc. There's no objective reason here. There's subjective reasons here. As I now seem to have said more against the EU and more against the United States than you, and unfortunately I am not that, as well as these colleagues who are constantly bothered by something and I turn out to be more responsible for the previous government than those who have been the uncut coalition partners of all governments for 12 years, who have destroyed the system of environmental protection, those who have destroyed Serbian banks, those who have lied for a thousand euros. Now I'm most of the former government than they've ever been, and they've been part of all the governments for 12 years. In the end, only one thing, a healthy man has a thousand wishes, I think you know, a sick person only has one, and the parent of a sick child would give all his wishes in the world to grant him that one wish. I'd be ashamed to refuse a amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9538	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9539	Ladies and gentlemen, here's to agree with the amendment proposal. I would agree that it is practical, that it is not only legally possible, it is legally possible, but in practice it is impossible to perform, or is not applicable, is not practical. One more thing, if it had been suggested by Mr Nikola Alexic of the Ecological Movement of Novi Sad, I would certainly have accepted it, even if I was in practice impossible, knowing that man would do anything to implement it. Why is it impossible to apply? It provides that pupils of primary schools and preschools are to be fed exclusively by organic products, with products certified to be organic and domestic. I understood the amendment so much. Organic food is a product of organic agricultural production and it hardly exists in Serbia at the moment. She's below the world average. In Serbia, organic production takes place somewhere less than 4,000 ha of four million and some hectares. So it only takes up 0.1% of our orange surfaces on the surfaces. The other thing, apart from plant organic products, there are also livestock organic products, and livestock production is not consistent with plant organic production. I've already said that it affects barely 0.1% of the area and is mainly produced by pre-arranged export contracts. For organic production you cannot be defined within one year. Therefore, organic production requires specific monitoring of that production over a longer period of time. To get an organic product, you have to control the land for a few years. It does not contain pesticides, herbicides, and, of course, mineral fertilisers, for a longer period of time, surely longer than five years. So, our production is small, and in due course we can't produce enough organic food, at least in my opinion, the certification procedure, since it takes years to monitor it, is pretty complicated. This food is two-and-a-half times more expensive, but it's hard to implement it, or this amendment, since there's a little more organic production in the world and it's slightly larger, it seems almost ten times bigger than in Serbia, but it's still less than 1%. Em, these products are expensive, which is not the most important thing, but the production is small, and here it insists on being of domestic origin, and now, let's say, the one from preschool and the one from school needs to get it, to make the purchase, to recognize it in a supermarket that is domestically organic tomatoes, which is foreign, whether or not it's going to trick it. With everything in mind, I believe this amendment is not applicable at this time in Serbia. So somewhere around 10% of the population, it's about 800,000 students and those attending preschool institutions, it's supposed to be fed by 0.1% of the area. This amendment is impossible to apply. As an idea, it is a good idea and I would certainly support it and should push the ministry in this direction to increase organic production in the next period, to create conditions for organic production, number one, not to apply mineral fertilisers, herbicides and pesticides, so that the land is isolated, so that in the future they may obtain conditions for applying such an amendment. If adopted, we would simply prescribe that preschool facilities can be used, that is, that children can only feed on this type of product. They would literally lead them to hunger because they couldn't consume food that couldn't be obtained. Em can't be importable, em has to be domestic, em's not on the world or on our market, em's impossible to produce in a very short time. I think the promoter had a good idea, but to implement it by this law, he should have warned his coalition partners a decade ago that, instead of encouraging tycoon ministers, we need more incentive to organic production, that we have enough organic products. If the ministers of the former regime had run such a agricultural policy, I would now have no doubt about accepting this amendment. This way, he's practically impossible because it would lead children to hunger, and it's enough that parents, grandparents and blankets are brought to hunger, it'll be too much to sacrifice children for one amendment, since I think it's impossible to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9540	Thank you. The word is Mr. Karic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9541	It's amazing to banalize all of this. Thanks for the nice lecture. We called for a public hearing about genetically modified organisms, you didn't come. How much organic food there is does not prescribe any law that it must, but that it can. If we wait for conditions to be created, the conditions will never be created. We've been waiting 25 years for some conditions and nothing changes. For what was 10 years ago, I have the same responsibility as you, and maybe a little less with regard to my age. So what you put out as my negatives is highly questionable arguments. Is there anything more expensive than health? Well, there are children's health. If we don't prepare, we'll never get to the desired goal. If you want us to wait until we start organic production, start at a thousand acres, then 10,000, and then a million, and then change the Public Procurement Act, then someone will say, that we are changing because of one member of the Public Procurement Act? Green Serbia has submitted a law banning genetically modified organisms in the previous meeting, neither of you 250 remembered to mention the law. So don't use cheap demagogue like that, it doesn't make sense. As you predict that disabled people can participate in public procurement, it's very positive and very often, it seems to me, I haven't been saving words when I should or when I think I can commend you, so I think we need to prepare here and go to meet the time, not wait for a better time to come, because if we wait for a better time will never come. We have to fight for a better time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9542	Before I gave my word to Mr. Arsic, I was persuaded by Mr. Radenkovic to start tomorrow at 5:30, but I'm sure we won't get started before 8:00. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must also agree with Mr. Karic's claims, which is the applicant of this amendment, but unfortunately also with Mr. Risticevic's claims and to say that both are right. Except in one section that Mr Karic said, which is that none of the 250 MPs have ever talked about modified products and about your law. I can tell you that only our former colleague, Professor Zoran Mašić, has agreed several times, every time there has been an agrarian budget debate, the Agricultural Land Act, etc., because we agree with you that this is an evil that should not be found with us. If we go into this story now, the way we are, I could even understand, not be 100%, to start with something, 20, 30, 40%. It's also true that it's expensive food, but it's not enough. If the idea had been adapted in one part, the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget could also be found to subsidise such an activity. I hope that in some of the following changes and additions to the law, because this is a new law and it will certainly show that somewhere maybe something doesn't work right, we do changes and additions, and we can discuss whether some amendment or put in the amendment and supplement of the Public Procurement Act, but to be adapted to that technical moment that we are in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9544	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9545	I thank you for saying that one of the previous speakers said that I gave him a lecture. Since I am the president of the People's Peasants' Party, I am quite familiar with this matter, I have been in it since 1988, even in the protection of the environment which is an important element of my programme. I've applied the provisions of all possible world environmental laws on this territory, I've always stood up for it, and I'll still stand up for it. As for genetically modified organisms, I did not come there for the simple reason I was looking for, and here has the chairman of this committee, it can also confirm that the best environmentalist Nikola Aleksic, president of the Ecological Movement, is invited to the meeting, since he has repeatedly warned with the right to the threat of life and human health. He's not invited, and he's the most prominent in the area, the most qualified and for that reason I didn't want to come to such a gathering, because for me environmental protection is not politics, but, first of all, it's a profession of those who deal with it. Second of all, as I was able to explain, I said that your food wasn't enough. The amendment promoter says the law can be applied, and it doesn't have to, but it can apply this amendment, but it doesn't have to take some time, it wouldn't be a problem if the amendment was so consistent. It literally writes – orderers who perform the work of pre-school and school-age diets are obliged to provide the necessary products by obtaining organic domestic certified products from domestic certified manufacturers. With all the respect for the amendments I would accept, it is impossible to obtain so much organic food at this time in Serbia, especially to be domestic. As for the last one, do I advocate the subsidisation of the production of that food—of course, it is one of the suggestions that I gave to the Ministry of Agriculture and they accepted. I have to ask – why are millions of subsidies... (President: Time, Mr. Risticevic. )......................................................................................................... for the production of mineral fertilisers during the former regime, if they support environmental protection, etc. Millions are listed to sanction the tycoon... (President: Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. )......................................................................................................... And now something else has been told to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9546	Thank you. Mr. Karic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9547	I thank you, Mr. President. If I understand one and the other speakers well, especially Mr. Arsic, I am prepared to amend the amendment or to give the amendment to you to complete it, so as to call it that your amendment is accepted. Let's do it as an opportunity and open this story. In order to speed up organic production, I take green policy very seriously, but it is not important for the green to propose a green policy, if the green policy will make Serbia's citizens feel better. If you're willing to change the amendment together, I'm in the mood to change it. It seems to me we have that possibility according to the Rules of Procedure. We don't? Okay, so we'll wait four years, and we'll say we don't have enough organic so we won't be able to produce organic food to feed the kids. Let's get that out of the way. Homemade. But I don't like it. We need to speed up our domestic producers. I agree with you all, but I think green politics is one very serious thing. In all of Europe, this is a third policy, and thanks to the EU's green policy, it is progressing very largely, when it comes to environmental protection and about healthy nutrition. When it comes to GMOs, I didn't accidentally ask you about it. I know what our president said tonight. I deliberately tell our president, because he was your president, now he's our joint president and explicitly said he's against GMOs in Serbia. I don't know about NATO, but we're not for NATO, we're for a partnership for peace. (President: Time. ) Therefore, because today our president has hosted a TV show and said explicitly that he is against GMOs, I therefore mention the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9548	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic, Jovana Joksimovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The proposer's representative committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9549	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, thank you for accepting one amendment of the 13th, as I have submitted. Thank you for accepting the three amendments to the 80 opposition, as many as they've submitted, thank you. We really wanted to help make this law good, to be, since the past is really old and it wasn't meaningful at this point, but let's make a good law, you didn't do it, you disobeyed us. Now that we're discussing public procurement, there's no 20 in the 138-proposer room. I don't know if I should be discussing my amendments in particular, the DSS gentlemen have actually submitted super amendments to unusually low prices, and that was really good. I won't even talk about the Culture Act. I'm sorry you didn't accept the other amendments, Mr. Arsic. I'm sorry that the law comes into force on April 1st, not the eighth day since the day of publication, but I understand you, because you have the directors of public enterprises who have completed colleges in 55 years of life, and then you need to get used to it, wait, to know how to apply that law. I'll talk about these amendments tomorrow, but I think you're about this law that you proposed a year ago, which is drastically changing compared to what you gave on your site, or what you've now proposed in the Assembly, where it could have been much better, first of all, to see where those savings are and where those savings are going to go. We propose for agriculture, we propose for pregnant women, we propose for pensioners, and you don't say where those savings will go, but you say that it will prevent what you say will be ineffective if the savings are put into the budget, not stay in those companies. I won't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9550	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9551	I believe that this amendment by my colleague Biljana Hasanovic Korac should be accepted because he then proposes, unlike the text proposed in the law – the client is obliged to ensure the public and transparency of the procurement process by respecting, but not limited to the obligations of this law alone, it was even more explicit there. He says – the client is obliged to ensure the public and transparency of the procurement process, using all instruments to ensure transparency of the procurement process in accordance with this law. The amendment was not accepted because it allegedly narrows the application of the principle of transparency to the provisions of this law only. This law in no way, at least I haven't found it, does not limit the possibility of wider transparency and greater visibility of a procedure being conducted. If said, using all the instruments to provide transparency, the absolute widest possible public should be involved. So, in any case, I think we've secured the government's statement, and on this amendment, we'd come to a better solution. I am sorry that our buffalo government, according to the Prime Minister, prefers the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, because the amendments to the Bill on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, the government has considered and, regardless of the speed and all that, gave an opinion which amendments should be adopted and which amendments, in the opinion of the Buffalo Government, should not be adopted. True, these are amendments, two amendments by Mr. Zika Gojkovic, the truth is, all other amendments are amendments proposed by colleagues and colleagues from the URS. Is that why some times the government gives an opinion, and sometimes the government doesn't give an opinion? Or the buffalo government is determined only by some laws, not by other laws. I think, in that sense, if we had secured the government's statement, it would have been better by law and by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9552	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the government should be telling us what to do. She can only recommend it. As we have already touched the Development Fund Act submitted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, it is natural for the government to declare itself because the government is one of the participants, i.e. the signatories of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina on the establishment of an AP Vojvodina Development Fund. She's an indirect creator of that law. The formal legal proposal is the Autonomous Province itself. Now let's go back to this amendment. So in Article 11. The draft law requires the contracting authority to ensure public transparency of the procurement process by respecting, but not limited to, the obligation under this law. To respect, but not only are these obligations under this law, but we're giving him the opportunity to do more. The amendment says – the contracting authority is obliged to ensure public transparency of the procurement process using all the instruments to ensure transparency of the procurement process, should be a point, but goes further – and in accordance with this law. So, by accepting this amendment, only the means to ensure transparency provided for in this law could be used. That is the problem with this amendment, and that is why this explanation of the non-admission of the amendments stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9554	Mr. Mikovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9555	Replica. First, I absolutely agree with the government being worthy and giving an opinion on amendments to the second draft law, and I welcome it. I only object to the fact that the Government was not worthy of this law on public procurement, so that it has also declared itself, so that we have a real opinion that there is no dilemma about what the Government's opinion on the amendments is, in particular, that there is a certain discrepancies regarding the vote of amendments on the parent board itself. That's one thing. Another thing, reading this bill, but if you say otherwise, I'll believe you because you're the legislator. I don't see this law restricting the transparency of any procurement even more. It has certain obligations, but I don't see that you said so – it can't be published in this way or this way. If it really says it can't, and I didn't find it, then the problem is with the law itself. Because there is obviously some disturbance that transparency is further expanding and that every supply is becoming increasingly visible and visible. That is why I believe that expanding transparency, meaning the public, means that any further enlargement is in accordance with the law. If you use all the tools to provide transparency, then there is no broader formulation. I therefore believe that all the reasons for the adoption of Mrs Biljana Hasanovic's amendment are standing. The second thing, if you have adopted 16 amendments later and proposed to us on the parent board, is the truth, some of the disagreements I hear from the board members. In any case, I don't see any reason if you've had any regrets in that direction of the amendment on the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9556	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. The proposer's representative and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The proposing representative and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The proposer's representative and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted to the 25th amendment. The proposing representative and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Dusica Morčev and Petar Petkovic. The proposing representative and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9557	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, we have already said in principle that in our opinion, it has been hasty to introduce some new provisions that have not yet shown whether they are meaningful. This also applies to this Article 28 that regulates, i.e. Introducing a new function, i.e. A new supervisory authority, actually a citizen's supervisor. We don't have a specific jurisdiction here and we don't have specific powers of representation here as far as the citizen's supervisor is concerned, and here's why. This person under this Article 28, as regulated, will do a job that is in the DRI's jurisdiction, which is to oversee the procurement process. According to us, the Government has powers regarding the control of public procurement, but as defined in this article, it is said that it can inform the public and the competent authorities if it sees certain irregularities. We don't mind that the civilian supervisor exists, but we think you should consider giving more specific jurisdiction and that in practice he can really do his job, not just do a job that is already designated to an auditor or that he can only point out, I say, to the public and to certain authorities, that he can't do anything more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9558	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9559	Thank you, ma'am. We have suggested that this member of the bill be deleted because we do not dispute the need to monitor public procurement. But it's not clear to us, given that the citizen's supervisor did not receive this member's specific powers. It is the person who will control the purchases, whose value exceeds one billion dinars, and the bill provides that the citizen supervisor does not have the right to reward for his work. So he'll volunteer to do it, which I don't really believe he'll do in a proper and quality way, because I don't get it, the two of us don't kind of go together. But what might have been more necessary to find yourself here is to provide for sanctions unless he does his job properly. In what way? Because of the unconscious business. What happens when he initiates a certain procedure, stops his course, and eventually turns out he was wrong? Therefore, without intending to challenge the need for a person, or an association, as envisaged here, to deal with this work, but I think it was necessary to define it more precisely, and this way we might get a man who will have the opportunity to perform in the media, to promote himself more than we will have some concrete results from his work. That's why we suggest that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9560	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9561	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, every time a newspaper is introduced, if we have a certain fear that it will not work properly, then simply, why change the law? Let them go like that, in the worst and worst form to function. What are his duties? I can't agree with that either, that it's not exactly described, but what's most important when it comes to that citizen's supervisor is in the sixth or seventh position, I can't count now, but I'll read the position – the citizen's supervisor is obliged to oversee the public procurement process and, to that end, he has constant insight into the procedure, documentation and communication of the purchasers with interested persons, or bidders. It's not written to be formal, because in that contact, a citizen's supervisor can come to the conclusion or one of the persons involved in the procedure complains to the citizen's supervisor that someone is asking him for money to pass his offer. That is the basic objective of the civilian supervisor. What if he stops the procedure? He'll probably never be a civilian supervisor again, on the one hand. On the other hand, I remember when you were in power, giving immunity to tax collectors, tax officials, if you stopped a shop that someone was doing, so you were giving immunity to the tax administration not to pay for the damage caused by an act that was not justified, etc. The goal here is that, as much as possible, anti-corruption is influenced, namely, by the public procurement process itself, to prevent the demand and receipt of money from persons interested in the procurement process.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9562	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Petkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9563	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, there is no fear of the newspaper with us, we are merely asking that the member who provides for the authority of the citizen's supervisor be clearly and stated. You can see for yourself that you're not sure what's going on if he stops the procedure. It would be wrong if he could stop the procedure, that's what it's all about. You said, "If he puts an end to proceedings and doesn't be right, he'll never be a citizen's overseer again." Where does that say? That's exactly what I'm talking about. Why isn't a sanction scheduled if he makes a certain failure? Of course, the National Assembly's control function is needed, and that's what we've advocated. The DSS Group of MPs is in all the bill proposals that we, as a parliamentary group, have given, and in all the laws that are now coming, that this is exactly the place where these things are discussed. I'm sure you know the DRI Act well, but they have the right to do so, they report to the National Assembly. Here, yesterday we had a session of the Finance Committee, where the president of the DRI and his associates submitted a part of the report. We got it in writing today. That's what this is about. We mix jurisdiction, we give the citizen's supervisor great authority in the sense that, not great powers, there are no here, because he says – he monitors and informs. Who? State authorities and the public? It's just to add another pro form one person to do this job. There may be needs for him, but not in this way as you predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9564	Thank you. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 33 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9565	Madam Chairman, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is heading towards what the legislator of this law wanted to achieve, it was also the subject of our elements of the law presented in this House in January of this year, when the DS committed power and led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I have here in this proposed amendment two aspects. The first aspect is to reduce from the proposed 15% to 10%, the maximum amount of additional works, which can be approved on the already established, original public procurement contract. Now, whether it's 15% or 10%, it might be less important. What is more important, it is the second part of this amendment, which, unless adopted, will unfortunately allow some of the irregularities that have been established over the past few years. In fact, it is very important that the Proposer accept this amendment, that it is then clearly stated in the law, that any additional works cannot be approved at different prices of goods and services, from that original contract, which was the subject of public procurement. Otherwise, we can get into a situation where maybe these additional 15% of the total funds are approved, for a very small amount of additional goods or services. It's not regulated anywhere. We have now had the experience for 10 years, that in this way one hole in the law is being used, that this happens in one legal way, and that the whole process can actually be fully secured. If the price is very low and this is how you get this original job and then through additional work, with very little effort you get a significant amount of money. That's where the profits are made, and that's how maybe some better offer was rejected in the first step. Whoever's using this law hole, which today exists and which we here as DS are proposing to close, then I'm afraid that these abuses can continue. I therefore appeal to all parties that this technically well-intentioned, well-intentioned, seems to me, quite a good amendment to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9566	Thank you. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 36, paragraph 6, where it asks to add a sentence in which, among other things, it would stand, in the procedure of public procurement, the contracting officer is obliged to request an opinion from the administration, which is required to publish an opinion on the emergency procedure within 24 hours. If the administration fails to give an opinion within a specified time limit, the contracting authority may continue the procedure without obtaining an opinion. We believe that this is one of the most important amendments to the DSS that has not, unfortunately, been accepted, because this is where order is being introduced when it comes to emergency procedures, because it's a gray area of public procurement procedure. If, of all public procurement procedures, we have about 20% of the public procurement that is carried out by emergency procedure, it is clear that this is the area where it existed and how it is misused when it comes to corruption and how these public procurements were achieved. For what? For the simple reason that this is a procedure that does not apply a suspension fact for the protection of rights. Thus, it means that when the orderer enters the procurement process, he goes to the end of the procedure. Whether one of the bidders complains that the tender has been set up, precisely because it is a matter of urgency, he carries out the procedure until the end, and the bidder can later complain, that he is going to court, but there is no point in doing so because it is a long-term procedure and in practice the bidders do not usually go to court. Because here and as there is room for abuse, we believe it was necessary to define the meaning of the emergency procedure more clearly, clearly. That's why we asked the Public Procurement Authority to give its positive opinion within 24 hours. It explains that this deadline is unrealistic. Why? On the one hand, we have something that implies an elemental accident, a haiarium, when it has to react immediately. A 24-hour deadline may also mean that the administration reacts after 15 minutes. So – within 24 hours. But on the other hand, what about those 20% of the public procurements that use this procedure for abuses? There is an important role, when it comes to the Public Procurement Administration, and that positive opinion. What's it cost us to introduce it? There's a management. Let's put order into this gray zone, so that, while we're talking about public procurement, in that area to the end, we can fully tell what is what is law and what is what must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9568	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9569	I just want to point out once again the importance of this seemingly minor amendment, i.e. an emergency procedure that mainly refers to some cases of haemorrhaging, as Mr. Petkovic mentioned. I'll give you an example. We introduce a citizen supervisor for large procurements that are over a billion and have about 35 each year, which is 35, 40 billion out of the amount of 300 billion public procurement in Serbia, and 20% of public procurement is an emergency procedure, which is about 60 billion. Now you see this illogicalness – you introduce a citizen supervisor for large procurement of over a billion, which may be as much as these public procurement for urgency, and these supplies for urgency, because you will not adopt this amendment, there is no control. Well, the Civilian Supervisor is more necessary for these emergency procurements, because they have 60 billion and they are conducted without any control, neither the Administration nor the Republic Commission. Whoever complains about this doesn't suspend it at all, it all ends in hours of work, and it's the biggest gray zone and the greatest possibility of tampering, muttering and corruption. Taking into account the proposal's extremely sincere intention to fight corruption, I am surprised that he did not accept this amendment that has, if nothing else, the obligation of those carrying out emergency procurements, the contracting authority, to inform the Administration and to wait within 24 hours for the administration to enter into office and, if it does not enter into force, to carry out their proceedings. This example shows what this gray area of emergency public procurement is, that it's about 60 billion and it's going through it without any control, and we have a civilian supervisor for large procurement that could be spent maybe 50 billion, and that's less than these. We want to control everything here, and here we're going to let those who are the orderers and who organize public procurement mess up and muddle. If the intention is to deal with corruption in each segment, then it is necessary to accept this amendment which, if nothing else, will at least be an opportunity to prevent corruption in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9570	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9571	What colleagues have presented, in the procedure referred to in point 3 of point 1 - action for exceptional urgency, is the contracting officer's obligation to request an opinion from the Administration. But if you look at attitude 2. - the contracting authority is obliged to require the Public Procurement Authority to have an opinion on the basis of the application of the negotiation procedure before the opening of the negotiation procedure referred to in paragraphs 1 to 6. It says. This applies to point 3. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the place: this is more precise.) You know what, how much more accurate? Within 24 hours, and if nothing happens within 24 hours, then they can continue. Well, it's not like that. This is much more specific. So, first he has to get it in 15 minutes, and if it's just so urgent, and certainly within 24 hours, especially when it comes to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and the like.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9572	Thank you. Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9573	Mr Arsic, given that we have written 27 amendments, we have certainly read the law and seen this position, but there is no obligation in that position for the administration to respond within what time period, but is based on the basis of the foundation, so there is, before the negotiation process is launched. We hereby predict that, that's what's called the proper silence of the administration, that if the Administration shuts up, the procedure can continue, so that someone in the Administration doesn't make it stand if there's really some urgency. So, by doing so, we force the Administration to work much more efficiently and to act really urgently in emergency procedures. We all know what our administration is, how three, passive, and in itself bureaucratic and prone to corruption, and through this procedure we want to force the administration through this deadline, which is the silence of the administration, to force the administration to work better and more efficiently. Therefore, we believe that our amendment is more precise than this, or neither, rules out the other, but this amendment further specifies the commitment of the Administration. I don't see anyone need to have a problem that management is going to leave a 24-hour deadline for him not to do anything. If she does not, she will bear responsibility for failing to respond in due time if there are irregularities later in the emergency procurement process. Let us force these people to work and earn their wages and, on the other hand, to enable bidders to in some way protect their rights and to exercise their rights in the procurement process. I don't see that there's a problem and a conflict with what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9574	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9575	Obviously, you and I don't have the same understanding of what emergency situations are. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the city of E.R. ) Emergency, caused by emergency circumstances or unforeseen events. You, for example, were in the government in 2006, when the Danube was blue all living. Did you put all the municipalities downriver from Hungary on alert and declare a state of emergency? What do you think, that there's only one level of responsibility for the work that's being done? During your government, there was an earthquake. There was a slide. When emergency circumstances arise, of course, that all state authorities, not just the Public Procurement Administration, must be in office. This is too much, especially since you've been applying some law on public procurement that, in my opinion, I don't blame you more liberally than this one, freer for deadlines and everything else, so you've done what you've done. Don't doubt that these people who are going to be at the Department of Public Procurement are irresponsible. Even more so, I think they will be far more responsible to run their business than they have ever been before, especially as the public through the Assembly will be far more involved in their work. That's the point. The public is something that makes good results and all organs and the public are something that prevents corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9576	The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9577	Mr Arsic, you know very well that the DSS parliamentary group is very serious about this matter and all amendments at all. It's common knowledge. You know, in this business, we've been consulting with people of experts involved in the procurement process. What we're saying so far is the result of the experience of people who know how this process is going. This isn't put in here by heart. When it comes to emergency procedures, it means that you find the mechanism, that in something that represents 20% of the total public procurement, you're going to put it under control. You, in the light of this law, say it's inadmissible to be such a large percentage of such public procurement, because there's no suspension and then everything and everything is going through. If it's an emergency procedure, then it has to be an emergency response to the administration. One 24-hour period implies that, depending on the urgency, the Management should respond as well. I mentioned whether it's in 10 minutes or 24 hours, but when things like that get set up, then you're going to do a lot of damage to everything that's been under the emergency procedure. That's what this is about. It's about, let's do something to help this bill, to define in more detail, to consider the experience of people who have been dealing with these things for years. Not to mention what was in your government, in our government, earthquakes, this, that. It's all right. There's no politics here right now. We initially said that this law is something that should be an improvement, a fight against corruption. We support that. We're friendly about this because it's the state. That is why we think it is very important that you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9578	Thank you. Mr. Michael, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9579	He is absolutely right, Mr. Petkovic, about what he says and simply, I was taught at the Faculty of Law when it comes to the Administration, that formalism should be and should be through the form to limit the possibility of abuse in the Administration and through this procedure I also believe that this provision, which Mr. Petkovic spoke of, is not something that is in collegiate with what you are talking about. I find it totally incomprehensible that you refuse to accept an amendment that is not in collegiate with what you're talking about. It only contributes to more precisely defining the government's obligations. If it is urgent for those who are flooded, and it is urgent for those administrations to react within 24 hours, if not longer, if not shorter. I don't see any reason not to accept this amendment, since it only defines more precisely the government's obligation and nothing else. Our intention is not to disabling any other organ or any other operation that you have in mind. No, but, simply, we aim to define the authority of the administration and that 20% of the purchases that are made under emergency, are reduced to what they are, and these are really extraordinary circumstances. So I see no reason why this amendment would not be accepted, because it will only further improve the text of the law and make the Administration work more efficiently and function at times when citizens need it most.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9580	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 36th amendment. The president of the proposing and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9581	Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, it's five to 12, it's almost midnight, so I hope that at five to 12 you will accept this amendment, at least one of the 30 and the change that DS has submitted. It's about time. Article 36. The proposal for this law shall be governed by the negotiation procedure without publication of an invitation to tender, at points 1 to 8, where the contracting authority is obliged to request for points 2 to 6, an opinion from the Public Procurement Authority on the founding of the negotiating procedure. The administration is obliged to issue a positive opinion within ten days, if it has complete documentation and all of this is published on its portal. It is in the opinion of the 7th member, what was subject to the submission of the DSS amendment, says that if the contracting authority is following the reception of the opinion, it concerns the opinion of the Public Procurement Board, the decision to initiate the negotiation procedure, is required that on the same day, and we do so to say, in accordance with Article 57, we speak only more clearly and more clearly that when the contracting authority receives an opinion, it should, in accordance with Article 57 which regulates the manner of publication of the obligations, act in accordance with the given opinion. We feel that we are not fundamentally changing these amendments to our amendment, but rather determining, or obliging the client, to publish our proceedings in accordance with Article 57. You, in your explanation of the rejection of the amendment, have said that it is not accepted because the opinion of the Administration is also published on the public procurement portal, so it is possible to verify whether the opinions and notifications are in the coalition. We didn't ask for it, we just predict how the orderer should behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9582	National MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dejan Mihajlov and Dusica Morčev submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 37 and 37. The proposing representative and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9583	We have proposed to delete from the law Article 37 relating to the Institute of Competitive Dialogue, which was introduced here because a proposal has been made through EU directives and some EU countries have introduced this institute, such as Slovenia. The results are negative, they do not have a very favourable opinion on this process itself, and we do not feel that it is necessary to define and introduce the Public Procurement Act this term of competitive dialogue, given that there are other terms that we have just talked about in Article 3, for example, open procedure, restrictive procedure, etc., which could be much more transparent and much clearer and clearer, so that everyone can do as best and as best as possible to use this law on public procurement. First of all, I think that an example of those public procurement officers who are operating in public enterprises, local self-governments, etc., who have now gone to training in the past for the use of this law, these provisions, for the proper implementation of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, because now that we're introducing new terms now we need to re-send these public procurement references to education, to listen to something new, to get acquainted with new terms, etc. This means that what they have learned so far, and the money that local self-government and public enterprises have given to certain institutions, to educate these referencing institutions, are now important, so we need to educate them again, specifically for this dialogue, etc. It kind of looks to me and reminds me like when Bulgaria was supposed to enter the EU, so they passed laws in English, just to adopt them and to enter them, and so do we, if the EU said, necessarily need to put it in, although I don't know what this competitive dialogue means at all, so I would like you to give me an example when choosing a contractor, for example, or providing some services, to take advantage of this, for example, the Institute of Competitive Dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9584	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9585	Honored Chairman, Article 27, Article 87. We entered the next day of this session. The motion is present at a session of about seven, eight MPs, of the 130 MPs who have proposed this law. We think this law is very important to discuss after midnight. I don't know what day we entered. Are we having a debate on Thursday or Friday? I think it would be useful, because of the dignity of this assembly and because of the possibility of the promoter defending his proposal at all, and by counting and the ability to work and drop the concentration of the promoter, to maybe continue in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9586	I'll be sure to keep that in mind. I believe that Article 27 has not been broken, that the motioner is very focused on answering questions, and I see the MPs, who are the amendment's promoters, are also concentrated, because I listen carefully to everyone. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9587	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Article 101(5) - The President of the National Assembly shall inform the MPs of the continuation of the session. Since we received an oral notice from President Stefanovic that we will be working until midnight, and midnight has passed, we are slowly entering a vampire session. Mr. Mladen was there when he told me himself. I think it would also be good because of the fall in concentration and the quality of the debate, that tomorrow at some time you're about to determine, let's continue this current session. If we're to be honest, time has been spent for parliamentary groups and tomorrow you'll have a lot of different circumstances than they are now. The MPs will speak much less and have much less time than they have now. As I was saying, given that the president of the National Assembly has explained that we will be working by twelve o'clock, it would be good for you to interrupt the session at the moment and by Article 101, paragraph 5, let us know when we continue tomorrow's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9588	I really have no idea that the president of the National Assembly has said that it will only take 12 hours. Certainly Mr. Mladenovic will go to consult with the president. So far, we're moving on. Please, it's really in the interest of all of us. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9589	Article 107. You, first of all, insult us MPs here. We've been consulting with the President of the Assembly and we've been informed that we're going to have... (President: Mr. Pejcic, can you tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure I hurt? I said in the beginning, Article 107. (President: Article 107, all right. ) So, all the MPs were present, most of them, when they heard the knowledge that we were going to work tonight until 12 o'clock and that on the microphone of the President of the Assembly, Mr Stefanovic said that from half-eight we would continue the work. Publicly here at the pay phone. In line with that promise, I hope that you will continue this practice and tell us when we will continue work tomorrow. Do we start work tomorrow at 7:30? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9590	I think the president of the assembly made a joke when he said he was at half past eight. We'll still wait for the president to decide when we'll be done with our work. So far, we're moving on. Please allow me to chair the National Assembly. National MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dejan Mihajlov and Dusica Morčev have submitted an amendment to the title above members of 40th and to Article 40. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the previous amendment, since the debate on it has not yet been concluded, and I would have used a few minutes since my DSS colleagues have asked me to explain what a competitive dialogue is and when it is applied. The subject-matter of public procurement shall be considered particularly complex if the contracting authority is objectively unable to determine technical specifications and subjects of public procurement, legal or economic structure of public procurement. That means next. I'll try to be picturesque. You need some computer app that you haven't had a chance to meet anywhere, or for a particular job, so it's not in a commercial offer. If not for this Article 37, you would first have to hire a consultant who will create a project for you what this application should look like, determine its value and start the procurement process. With that, and when you choose a consultant, you have to conduct a public procurement procedure, regardless of whether it's small values or high values. In this case, you have the right to ask whoever directly, but more of them, to give you an idea solution to solve your problems. That means you can, say, collect five of them. Five of them, when they finish five, show you what their apps are and you choose three – this is what I like and now the three of you have to guess who's going to give me the best offer. This way, you get this first public procurement in the selection of a consulting house completely free of charge. I hope we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9592	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Bozanić, do you want to answer the replica or the amendment I read, just tell me? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9593	Thank you. Okay, in principle, what you said is I see as an example of a negotiating process that can be used and I don't know how we've been doing so far. If there is a consultant who might be able to provide some technical specification for a specific computer application and so on, I don't know why we have to choose and why this should be different from this specific dialogue.? How do we know that one of those five we choose is better or worse if we haven't clearly defined what the subject of public procurement is? We just want to, that's what I said earlier, the Honored Chairman alone wouldn't let me finish my thought and replicate to shorten the time of the debate. There was talk here about what, etc., which is that we in the DSS wanted to improve the Public Procurement Act and maybe define some things more specifically and more precisely. Again, I'm telling you, we're not going to have to go into some things where we're going to have to spend more money on the education of public procurement referents. Maybe we could use these existing solutions, which we're going to do a little bit more precisely and more precisely define, cover everything, including these public procurements that can't be defined in some way through the technical specification, etc. We just have a desire to help. Thank you for this explanation, but I am still of the view that this competitive dialogue can be replaced, or deleted, and to replace it with, for example, a negotiating process, at least because of the public procurement reference in local self-government in public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9594	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9595	Article 36. – the contracting authority may conduct a negotiation procedure without making a call for tenders, if it has not received any offers in an open or restrictive procedure. That's what this is all about. If we want to interpret things like you said, we all want to have as precise a law as possible to try to solve at least most of life's problems even in its adoption. This is achieved by this Article 37. You cannot initiate a negotiation procedure because you do not know the technical specification of the subject of public procurement, or its structure. There's no market experience that'll make it possible. That is why it is made possible to achieve successful public procurement in a shorter procedure that will not be misused.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9596	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 103. After you made a joke with us, we heard it from the vice president of the assembly. My question to you, given that in a direct internal conversation we heard information that we would be working until 24 hours, and now it's 12 and 14 minutes, until when will we work? Since we had one promise, one of the information you sent us, given that the quality of the discussion is dropping, the concentration is dropping, can we continue this session tomorrow and if we continue to tell us when and at what time do we continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-27-0.u9598	We're going to continue today anyway. I found the debate very interesting, and I saw that the MPs with great ferocity accepted the debate on amendments and got involved. I have the support from your parliamentary group to move on and now I'm in a dilemma. I'm thinking we might call a college, at least these MP groups that are here, so we can decide what to do next. I accept your suggestion. I still won't be able to give you my word on the Rules of Procedure, since I've decided to interrupt the session. We continue work today at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mr Milorad Tosic. We are continuing the session on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME. The amendment was submitted by MPs Bojan Bozanic, Dejan Mihajlov and Dusica Morčev, to the title above members of the 40th and member of the 40th. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
