ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. In order to determine precisely the number of Members present in the room, I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are not present, but there are over 84 of us, so the conditions for holding the debate are met. I would like to inform you that I agree with Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the Government's request for an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I invited the sittings to be attended by representatives of the motionary Mirjana Ivić, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as Majda Rakic and Zorica Stojsic, election members of the Attorney General's Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted a request for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in the request. As you could see for the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 the next Dn e n i d d 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice of the Courts of Appeal, submitted by the High Council of the judiciary No 119-181/12 of 23 January 2012 and 2 January 2012 Proposal for a decision on the selection of deputies and public prosecutors who filed State Liaison No. 119-279/12 since 30 January 2012. We're moving on to the first item of the agenda. You've received a motion for a decision from the High Council of the Judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to article 193 of article 197. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be the total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours and shall be distributed, in accordance with Article 96(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. In accordance with Article 201(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the motion for a decision. Does the representative of Ms Mirjana Ivic, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65945	Dear Presidents and Honorable People's MPs, I address you as an authorised representative of the High Council of the judiciary, who, in accordance with the powers laid down in the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, proposes to the National Assembly a candidate for an election member of the High Council of Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65946	Gentlemen, please, let's hear from the motionary's representative. Here you go, Mrs. Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65947	All of you have received a reasoned proposal for this item of the agenda, but for the sake of the public and your reminder, I would briefly present the activities that preceded this proposal, which is that, in the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals, the election was called in the Court of Appeals on 19 January 2012, that on 20 January 2012, the Electoral Commission delivered the record to the High Judicial Council on the results of the vote, and that the High Judicial Council at the session held on 23 January 2012, adopted the minutes of the Election Commission and according to the results of the vote for the High Council of Judges of the Court of Appeals, proposed by Miroljub Tomic, a judge at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, as a candidate with the highest number of votes. Since you have this reasoned proposal, I'm just going to brief on the work biography of Miroljub Tomic. Miroljub Tomic is the judge of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, born in 1961, in Kragujevac, the Faculty of Law in 1986. After graduation, he took a job at the Zastava Transport Work organisation and then "Spedition". That in the General Court of Joint Work in Kragujevac, the secretary's job was bigger from 1987 to 1991, after which he moved to the municipality court in Kragujevac where he was elected judge in 1994. He was elected judge of the District Court in 2000, after which he was elected president of the District Court in Kragujevac and the Municipal Court as judge and in the District Court in 2001, working on criminal affairs. By decision of the High Council of the Judiciary at the end of 2009, he was elected Judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, where he is currently serving as deputy court president and acting in criminal matter as president of the criminal council. You are familiar with out-of-court activities, which is that he has been a member of the High Council of Justice since April 2009, a member of the presidency of the Serbian Association for Criminal Legal Theory and Practices, and for a time he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Society of Judges. He was a member of the working group for the analysis of the work of courts of general competence to the Republic of Serbia, a member of the Working Party for the drafting of the text of the working version of the Rules of Procedure, and is currently a member of the group for the introduction of the judicial manager into Serbia's judicial system. He is a member of the Working Party for the Evaluation of Objects. He was elected a member of the programme council of the Administrative Board of the Judicial Academy and lecturer at the Judicial Academy, and participated in the work of other Working Groups educated by the High Council of the judiciary. He is a participant in numerous seminars and international conferences and is author of a number of works in the area of criminal and legal matter. The results of his work show that he is professional and responsible, as at the end of 2011, he had only 12 unfinished cases and no old subject in the work which is the dream of every judge in Serbia. Moral and human qualities are best discussed by judges for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the fact that it is almost unanimous at the College of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac proposed to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary by the judges, his colleagues who are with him daily, who know his behaviour in court, outside the court and know best his moral and human values and qualities. The law stipulates that a member of the High Council of the judiciary is elected in direct secret elections by his colleagues, which is in fact the greatest achievement of the judiciary, because judges themselves are taking pictures and choosing their fellow judges. In such elections, directly, secretly, in four appeals courts, candidate Miroljub Tomic received 126 votes, 63%, while another candidate, Zorana Delibasic, of the Belgrade Court of Appeal, received 61 votes. So, twice as many, 7% were invalid ballots. From all of this, Miroljub Tomic is a career judge, that the upcoming line in his career has reached the judge of the Court of Appeal, which is also the confirmation of his colleagues with 126 votes who elected him as their representative in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I propose that this esteemed home be elected by Judge Tomic in the day of voting as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65948	Thank you, Mrs. Ivić. I would like to inform you that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will represent Djordje Milicevic and the SRS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic. The honourable MPs need to make the National Assembly in a member with Article 178(3). The Rules of Procedure shall establish the resignation of a member of the Government. You have accepted the resignation of Prime Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic as Minister of Youth and Sports. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23 Law on Government and Article 278, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and realises that Snezana Samardzic-Markovic resigned as Minister of Youth and Sports and that the term of office of the minister ends. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milos Aligrudić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65949	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Mirjana Ivić, I have heard your opening statement and I thank you for it, because we have received some concrete information on the person who will be elected to the Supreme Council of the Court of Appeals. The biography you have read is the impressive and experience Mr. Tomic has so far is obviously the experience that would otherwise recommend someone to perform such a high function. It is impossible, however, when we talk about selecting a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, when we talk about this body, not to mention some of the things that are related to the work of the High Council of the judiciary and those of the jobs that counterpart Tomic is expecting in that place. So the miles in which the High Council of the Judiciary works are determined by the laws of the National Assembly. This National Assembly passed a law a year ago on amendments to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. The amendments to the laws were meant to create one different mile on the basis of which unfinished affairs of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, including those of the High Council of the judiciary, which were disputed by the domestic expert public and by international arbitration, and concerning the assessment of Serbia's fulfilment of democratic conditions, both by the Council of Europe and by the EU, in order to pass the exam. Mr. Tomic, with his election at the High Council of the Judiciary, enters the one mile where you are all located and which we of the DSS have considered unsatisfactory. Therefore, the basic question to be asked, except that the High Council of the judiciary did not work in full composition, which is impossible, and this same first composition of the High Council of the judiciary made decisions even though it was not in full composition. It is not the same as the Constitutional Court, where you have the possibility that all members of the Constitutional Court may not be elected and that a certain number of judges of the Constitutional Court may make decisions. That's what the Constitutional Court Act says. However, the law that regulates this matter does not foresee the possibility of an incomplete composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Why am I saying this? Now I'm gonna get it in a relationship. Because at the moment when the High Council of the Judiciary did what he did at the beginning, when he decided on re-election of judges, that so-called. The lustration that was conducted through re-election, which was challenged in public, was then done in an illegal manner. When we suggested that everything should be reset, you rejected it and used it to deal with the ruling majority, because I can't believe that deal wasn't there, that everyone was doing what he thought of. There was some coordination there. I can't believe it wasn't there. You agreed then that instead of resuscitating the whole procedure, you would desecrate it in such a way that you would consider the appeal to the Constitutional Court of Appeals, thus discriminating all those who were running for office. The problem with the High Judicial Council remains to this day. So by selecting a member of the High Council of the Judiciary you formally complete the High Council of the judiciary again that it can work and that is not disputed. What's controversial is what this High Council of Justice is going to do. I wish Mr. Tomic every happiness professionally and humanly, but I don't know what to wish him when it comes to his election as a member of the High Council of Justice today, what it is that he is going to do there with us. That's a question. Unfortunately, his choice in that organ and that organ as such represent the whole of the bad in so-called. The reform of the judiciary we have so far and it is a kind of surrogate of the justice strategy that was adopted years ago, six or seven years ago today. This surrogate is alive today and represents the dark side of the so-called Serbia's reform. If the EU and the European Commission have estimated that something is going wrong, then it is not an indication that this has to change, but because it is true because the Council of Europe has assessed it, the local public has assessed it, and the hypocrisy of this white world and the same EU itself is in the next. In March, the EU will block access to EU bids due to problems with KIM, as Serbia reportedly did not explicitly recognise KIM's independence enough, although I do not exclude it from happening in the meantime, given the ruling coalition's stance. There is no formal condition, nor does Germany set the principle of a formal condition a lack, or a dark side in judicial reform, although we think that this is a very serious problem if there is some reason that Serbia should not go to the EU formally in terms of the EU aspect. It is the dark side of judicial reform in Serbia. So we've come to an incredible contrast, we're being blackmailed for something that no normal state can be blackmailed for, and it's going over what's a real disaster from the aspect of democratic standards and procedures for a democratic state. I really have nothing more to say to you than this. I can't use my entire time of 20 minutes because there's practically nothing else to say. I wish man every happiness, and you want to communicate with those who have power, and I hope that it will be us, our party, as of May, agree certain amendments to the law in the area of justice, including those concerning the work of the High Council of Justice, so that you can finally do it normally in this country and that the democratic procedure will normally be respected and in order to know whether or not the re-election of judges, whether lustration, what are the criteria, who, in what way, within what time, is required to adopt the criteria, must be publicly announced. After all, if you're not able to do it, this home should be able to do what it says and to stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65950	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian judiciary is obviously in a very difficult situation. I'd like to start with Article 153. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which requires, when it comes to the High Council of the judiciary, that it is an independent and independent body that provides and guarantees independence and independence of courts and judges and that it has 11 members. When the Constitution, or the law, prescribes that a state body or body has a number of members, it is as if there must be 11 members. The High Council of the judiciary currently lacks 11 members. The relevant regulations do not allow the situation that the High Council of the judiciary, as well as any other state body that is of a collegiate nature, such as the National Assembly, which must have 250 MPs at any time, is therefore not a regulated situation that the High Council of the Judiciary may have less than 11 members, and in particular is not allowed the situation that the High Council of the judiciary is working in incomplete composition for months. It's totally illegal. This is what raises the legitimacy of the entire Serbian judiciary. What is also not permitted is the fact that one member of the High Council of the Judiciary has been given detention because he committed a crime 10 years ago. You've been telling us here the biographies of individual candidates, namely this one candidate for a member of the High Council of the judiciary, and you've been talking about this candidate in praises, that he was a good student, that in time he graduated from law school, that he had enough working and professional experience, that he was moral, etc. Someone else, ma'am, said the same thing about a man who later turned out to have committed a crime. What the SRS is interested in is where the guarantees are. Who assures us that the people who propose themselves to be members of the High Council of the judiciary are really so professional and so moral? You have also claimed for these existing members of the High Council of the Judiciary that they are very good, that they are successful lawyers, that they have great working experience, that they are moral, that they are invulnerable, that the guarantee of an independent judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, but very quickly it has proved that this is not true, and then the question of who guarantees us that this gentleman who is now proposing himself as a member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary is really as good as you are now trying to convince us. What you should also know, I don't know if you know about the situation in the High Council of the Judiciary. The public defender, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, has declared himself. His assessment of the work of the High Council of the judiciary is quite negative. In his report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 11 January 2012, therefore, it was less than a month ago, Mr Sasa Jankovic found a whole series of irregularities in the work of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Among other things, he stated that the amended Law on Judges in the course of the election procedure of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has given him jurisdiction to decide on the complaints made on his own decisions. The complaints have been converted into objections to be decided by the same authority that has made the contested decisions. Members of the High Council of the judiciary who participated in the first election, however, in spite of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary, have only publicly pledged not to vote on objections to their own decisions. They participate in all other stages of the procedure and make quorum, but do not vote. A member of the High Council of the judiciary, which was elected before the end of the first election, still participates in the vote on objections. Such composition in which the High Council of the judiciary decides on objections is legal and logically inconsistencies. The High Council of the judiciary does not work publicly when considering the proposals of its committees, contrary to the explicit legal provision that the meetings of the council are public. It is then said, among other things, that the citizens' protector believes that the work of the High Council of the judiciary in the present system should be interrupted, that all measures and actions of his jurisdiction should be taken in order to complete his composition in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the law, that he may continue to work only in the complete composition and put aside the decision he made in situations where he worked in incomplete composition. These are the estimates of the man that the congregation majority here also claimed would be independent, independent, that he would be a guardian of human rights and freedoms. I have not heard that members of the High Council of the Judiciary have declared themselves to the allegations of the patrons of the citizens. What you could see in the media is that there was a verbal war between the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court. She argued that the Constitutional Court allowed its decisions that the High Council of the Judiciary was working in incomplete composition, and afterwards the Constitutional Court denied Mrs Nata Mesarevic and said there is no such decision that the Supreme Council of the judiciary must work in full at all times. What must also be pointed out when it comes to the Serbian judiciary as well as the Serbian state as a whole, is the fact that the highest judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, in particular the High Council of the judiciary, do not advertise in any way for the drastic violation of human rights and freedoms of the SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. We in the SRS are absolutely clear why it seems. Because the Serbian judiciary is being tribunalised, or Serbian courts are trying to form on the principles on which the UN tribunal rests. I must remind you, as representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, that Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague tribunal voluntarily. So you didn't have to arrest him, hunt him in pajamas, drive him to Republika Srpska, and arrest him there, etc. The man went voluntarily to The Hague. In February 24, nine years has been completed since one citizen of the Republic of Serbia was detained. So Vojislav Seselj is in custody. How is it possible for someone who should be a guardian of the Constitution, the law, human rights and freedom of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they are in the Republic of Serbia or outside the Republic of Serbia, to be silent about the scandalous fact that one citizen of the Republic of Serbia is in custody for nine years? And on February 25th, he enters the 10th year of detention of a man who volunteered to prove the inaccuracy of the indictment, not only against him, but against Serbia and the Serb people in general. Do not be fooled that the charges against Slobodan Milosevic, against Vojislav Seselj, against Milan Martic, Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic are charges against them personally. No, these are charges against Serbs, against the Serb people, against Serbia. These indictments are being tried by The Hague tribunal to prove that it would justify EU, US and NATO's policy towards the former Yugoslavia, according to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, according to the Republic of Serbia, which has been leading for 20 years, that in fact we Serbs have been responsible for the fall of the former Yugoslavia, that since 1945 we have wished and forged a secret plan to create an ethnically pure Serbian state, by killing and banning all those who are members of the Croatian people, all Muslims, Shipari, etc. In this situation, the Supreme Council of the judiciary had to raise its voice against attempts to repeat the scenario used against Slobodan Milosevic in the Vojislav Seselj case. This scenario is next – when you cannot prove that a Serb is responsible for what is written in the indictment, and you know that his health is seriously threatened, then simply deny him health care and thus kill him. There is no dilemma that Slobodan Milosevic was killed in The Hague. They couldn't prove that Slobodan Milosevic was responsible for genocide in the former Yugoslavia and when they realized they couldn't prove he was guilty they denied the treatment of a man who was suffering from serious cardio-vascular problems. And he was killed in The Hague on 11 March 2006. That's what the Hague tribunal villains are trying to do when it comes to Vojisalv Seselj. When you followed yesterday's status conference in The Hague, under the prosecutor's procedure against Vojislav Seselj, you could clearly see all the facelessness, all the inhumanity, all the anti-democracy of the UN tribunal when it comes to a Serbian citizen named Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the one hand, it is said that the Serbian judiciary must be established in accordance with European standards, that everyone has the right to a fair and fair trial, that the trial must be completed within a reasonable time. However, these rights are not respected by one citizen of the Republic of Serbia and they are not respected in such a flexible way that Vojislav Seselj has already entered, or his case, his case has entered the history of world justice. This is not recorded in the judicial analyses of the modern world that one man is held in custody for nine years. Why keep quiet to the High Council of the Judiciary? You are invited to defend human rights and freedoms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia even when they are in The Hague. How can you convince us Serbian citizens, who live in Serbia, that if we are in some criminal procedure to guarantee human rights and freedoms on these allegedly European standards, when these European standards do not apply in the case of Vojislav Seselj, who are they trying to kill? You guys keep your mouth shut about that. Why are you silent about the fact that Republika Srpska is declared a genocide? It's not just a political statement, it's a slap to the whole state of Serbia. In 1995, when the General Framework Agreement for Peace was signed in BiH, the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed, one of the states guaranteeing implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Does this mean that our country is guaranteed by a genocide? Do we guarantee to genocide criminals that they will still exist? That's scandalous. The High Council of the Judiciary is silent about it. For days, Republika Srpska has risen to a pillar of shame by individual MPs, political party heads, NGOs, so-called. representatives of the international community. The High Council of the Judiciary is silent about it. The statement that Republika Srpska is a genocide is one of the most serious crimes. Shut up about statements that Republika Srpska was built on a crime, or massacre in Srebrenica. Republika Srpska's army freed Srebrenica in July 1995. Republika Srpska was formed on January 9th 1992. These are irrefutable historical facts. What does it matter what happened in Srebrenica or what representatives of individual political parties, NGOs claim to have happened to the fact that Republika Srpska was formed more than three years earlier? The high council of the judiciary has not raised a single word against such statements. You are part of the state apparatus of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is guaranteed respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement. You had to warn all those who gave such anti-state and anti-national statements that they were committing crimes and that they would continue to refrain from making such statements. The high council of the judiciary doesn't respond. The National Assembly should decide on the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. to decide on the election of deputy public prosecutors. I just want to sketch out what the parliament of the Republic of Serbia currently looks like, what its legitimacy is and what its dignity is. You have probably followed in the media that an estranged artist from Croatia, Mrs. Landa Wuckovic, in the presence of the President of the Republic of Serbia, promoted the action of a so-called "Serbs". independent TV about the award, or acquisition of 100 incubators for babies in Serbia. She could have come to the National Assembly. She was a very tall guest here. All the media was focused around her. (President: will you just contact the agenda point? ) I would very much like to bring this, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, into contact with the fact. So the National Assembly should decide on the choice of the highest judicial office holders in Serbia. So, the House of the National Assembly, in which a person may come to make statements, to advertise himself, etc., and, on the other hand, when the SRS parliamentary group sent a request to the National Assembly a few days ago to allow a concession to be made to the use of the small hall of the National Assembly for the promotion of the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj, our request was rejected. So, Mr. Dragan Todorovic made a request on 31 January 2012, to the Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, namely a request for the release of the Small Hall of the National Assembly for the promotion of the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "Vikliks reports me the first part". The promotion was scheduled to take place on 7 February 2012 at 1200 hours and after that, we planned to hold a small cocktail in the National Assembly. The Secretary General of the National Assembly told us this - regarding your request and the updated request of 3 February 2012, I would like to inform you that the service of the National Assembly which I am handling is not responsible for the approval of the parliamentary activities that you state in your request. I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Highest Legislative, watch out for any Chinese text, in the highest legislative institution of the Republic of Serbia, there are no provisions for the activities of parliamentary groups or MPs relating to the promotion of certain political parties, nor are there envisaged promotion and presentation of documents and books, except for the appropriate exhibitions and promotions organised by the institutions of the Republic of Serbia or the institution of culture, by law of prescribed action. In translation into Serbian, what does this mean? It is allowed to promote an estranged and porn star from Croatia in the National Assembly, and do not accidentally promote the book of a man who was the bearer of the SRS list in previous parliamentary elections. Vojislav Seselj, ma'am, was the first on the SRS list, he was our bearer of the list. His book can't be promoted, and that's why it can be promoted. You are now trying to convince us that the state of Serbia is excellent and that there are no problems. He's got them. As you can see, these memos are the best evidence to which the dignity of the National Assembly is destroyed. Keep going. Yesterday, this incident, or whatever it might be called, happened in a special prison where two people who were sentenced to long-term prison sentences tried to escape. As of today, media reports suggest that their escape was allegedly organised by Sreten Jocic, called Joca Amsterdam. I have to remind you that about two months ago you had a statement from a high-ranking official called the so-called. SNS, Vladimir Cvian, that Joca Amsterdam is no criminal or mobster for them, but a successful businessman who will tomorrow, when they come to power, on the orders of the state, build bridges around Belgrade. You didn't respond to that statement, and you had to react, because that statement is also one of the most serious crimes. You're not responding to the fact that there have been speculations in the media today, that Joca Amsterdam is behind the escape. Not a mobster and a criminal, but a bridge builder, he's in charge, he's a very important person in the Serbian economy. You're not responding to those statements. You have to react. What kind of Serbian judiciary, to whom a slap can be given by people who listened to you yesterday, otherwise close associates of Boris Tadic... . (President: Time. Thank you. I'm done. The question arises... (President: I thank you. It wasn't exactly about the agenda point. It really isn't. Just bring the end, please. I'm done. This is all about the agenda point. If you read a stenogram of my presentation, you will realize that absolutely everything is in line with the agenda, but unfortunately, due to lack of time, I cannot elaborate these thesises any longer, but there are our MPs of the SRS, who will further convince you how strong our arguments are.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65952	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the ROTARACT Clubs, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Present are: Damir Hamzić, Ivana Stojljković, Simona Zimonjic, Milos Davidović, Marko Culibrk, Tijana Pantelić, Andrijana Milošević Georgiev, Milica Cakić, Sanja Živanovic, Jovana Zistakis, Nadja Stefanović, Bojana Vajić, Ana Stefanović, Nemanja Antic, Ljubiš Stamatović, Milos Dosten, Filip Mihailović, Igor Mijatović, Milos Vasiljevic, Katarina Jonev, Jelena Simić, Marija Kolarski, Dusan Mrdaković, Petar Stojlković, Natasa Janković, Dusan Pešić, Sandra Gajic, Marija Živojnović, Snežana Žeželj, Branka Bogosavljević, Jelena Todorović. Please welcome the guests. We continue to work and I give my word to the People's Messenger, Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65953	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Ivić, you spoke in the opening statement, very substancefully and thoroughly about the candidate who was proposed. We really want to believe that this is a capable and responsible candidate, and I'm saying, you've spoken very highly of it. You were talking about a procedure that was respected when it comes to the election commission of the High Council of the Judiciary. I hope that after this debate you will also talk about a number of questions that we have heard after two or three exhibitions. What I want to say first is a few things that I think are essential when it comes to justice, and of course, I'm going to talk very briefly about the proposed decision that we're talking about today. It is clear that the European Commission's new decision on Serbia's candidacy will depend heavily on how reforms are carried out in the Serbian judiciary. Everything that seems and does when it comes to judicial reform, of course it must be in agreement and in agreement with our partners from the EU. The European Commission's suggestions are a guideline, a guideline and a path for Serbia to go in the next period of time, when it comes to reforming our judiciary. Looking at fundamentally, the rule of law, that is, judicial reform, is one of the most important conditions for a country's candidacy and membership in the EU. Notwithstanding the European path, I would like to say that Serbia needs a modern and efficient judicial system, an independent and professional system, or a judiciary with complete integrity. It is important to restore what we could hear for a moment, the trust of the citizens in the judiciary. It is important that in Serbia we have a judiciary that the citizens will believe in. The reform of the judiciary depends on the protection of human rights and freedoms, and on the other hand, the degree of democratisation in society is seen at the achieved level of judicial independence. Looking at statistics, when it comes to judicial reform in Serbia, as a success, we can accept a reduction in the number of outdated criminal proceedings, because speeding up the process and increasing efficiency are one of the essential reasons for the reform. It is clear that the election review is a question largely dependent on Serbia's European future. It would not be bad if in some period, if not today, then the next days, we had some kind of report, information, as far as it came when it came to this extremely important issue for Serbia today on the path of European integration. That's why it's very important and legitimate, and it's very important to trust the High Council of the Judiciary. The high council of the judiciary, there's no dilemma, should be working in full composition. Of course, as clearly defined, half of the composition within the Supreme Council of the judiciary must be judges. Of course, it's an absolutely inadmissible influence of politics. The high councils of the judiciary should be independent. He must and should be independent in his work. Today, we are facing a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals. It is about a candidate who, according to the election commission, has, as you said, received the largest number of votes from fellow judges. We believe that the judges are able to choose the best in their ranks and that we within the National Assembly are able to confirm it. It is important that this process, when it comes to the election and composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as soon as possible, because, as far as we are concerned, we believe that a serious and important job is coming for the members of the High Council of the judiciary. We will, of course, support this decision. I want to say at the very end, when it comes to judicial reform in Serbia, I think it is extremely important to define once again what needs to be done in Serbia as soon as possible in order to round up their commitments to obtain EU membership candidates when it comes to the area of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65954	Thank you. The word has a vice president, Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65955	Thank you, Madam President, dear Mrs Ilic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP supported judicial reform, given that we have one pro-European policy, since we are aware of the importance of this reform that has such a great impact on the everyday life of Serbian citizens. However, all that has been happening since the beginning of this reform, during the implementation of it, inevitably leads to one question that needs to be asked. Is there really a serious political will to reform the judiciary? This question must be asked, among other things, for the reason that we have found ourselves here today to discuss whether to choose a new member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, whether the same corresponds to all those criteria provided by law for this member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to meet all the tasks foreseen in the work of the High Council of the judiciary. On the Justice Committee, we heard one argument that the candidate received over 60% of the support from the judges, his colleagues in the appeals courts. It's commendable and it's very nice. However, I would remind you that other candidates, when we discussed them during the election for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, also received high percentages of support from their colleagues and fellow judges. However, we have come to the situation that the work of the High Council of Justice has been significantly compromised. What to say rather than to compromise the fact that a member of the High Council of the Judiciary is in custody, that one has resigned, that one has not been informed that he should ask the Anti-Corruption Agency for an opinion, whether he is in conflict of interest, since the Dean of the Faculty of Law. So it's all some sort of failure that shouldn't have happened. It really took a very good look at who was proposed to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. It should also be checked now whether this candidate really has all the skills required under the law and which are, in fact, mentioned in his biography, as a reason to support this candidate for a future member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. With regard to this political will, it's very important that some things be cleared up. First, what was done was for the public to really inform themselves that the Law on Judges predicted that it was a single general choice of judges, and not a re-election. Is this fact approximated to the public, is it explained, has this good policy been made regarding bringing one burning problem closer to the citizens who are to bear the consequences of the work of all authorities? Were the citizens able to understand that if the network of courts in one country was changed, if the number of judges was reduced, that in this case there could be no re-election of judges, if, among other things, the network of courts and even the regulation of courts stemmed from some constitutional obligation? Is it explained to citizens that if you no longer predict the same number of judges that were found on December 31st of the year before the trial for selecting judges was initiated, that you simply won't be able to choose all judges? So there are huge errors that have given opportunity and space for every kind of manipulation of facts, manipulation by one serious process such as judicial reform, or the choice of judges. Meanwhile, very many workers have lost their jobs, a very high percentage of unemployment, however, the overall issue of judicial reform has literally focused on the choice of judges. In addition to the election of judges, statistics came out first, as the highest range of judicial authorities, i.e. the greatest result of judicial reform. You'll allow it. Statistics aren't enough. What's going on on the ground, that's what actually proves whether justice reform is on the right track or not. What's happening on the ground, what happens every day in the courts and the prosecution, really doesn't show one bright picture of this judicial reform. So if at least the initial result is not achieved, in terms of improving access to justice and citizens of Serbia, unless this judicial system is made more functional than the previous one, and we do not see that there are still efforts to lead this judicial reform in this regard, then I do not know why this whole difficult judicial reform process has started. That is why the question is rightly raised – is there really political will, because this political will is important, because if executive power, legislative and representative and judicial authorities do not work together on a common objective of judicial reform, in which case we cannot expect results. Justice reform cannot fall solely on the burden of courts, prosecutors, or judicial authorities. It's a far more complex problem that must be worn by society as a whole and the entire state apparatus. When on the ground, for example in any city, in any municipality in Serbia, you try to exercise some of your right in courts and if you get some certain results, it is not enough since judicial decisions are not significant enough for other state authorities, because if a judicial judicial decision were to be one of the final responses of the state to a particular problem, it would not be questioned. Believe me, it happens many times that a judicial decision is being reconsidered both by tax authorities and by other state authorities, by the authorities of the administration. So is this a natural situation, to treat court decisions in this way? My answer would be if it wasn't. This is another problem that is simply not solved in this process, in this judicial reform process. Too slow this is going and too much resistance has that the judiciary would just carry this whole reform story. I think too little importance has been given in the analysis of whether the network of courts is well-assessed, well formed and whether it is functional. Too little importance is given to the organisation of work in courts and in prosecutors. These are the crucial questions that need to be answered, because reform, if it is a process, then questions and answers are given in walking and in fact solutions are found, learning eventually on some mistakes. We did not notice that errors were correctly detected and that something had been done to remove these mistakes. The courts are still overloaded, the courts are still mainly dealing with themselves and statistics, and citizens are those who suffer such serious consequences from an unreformed judiciary. So, if the High Council of the Judiciary doesn't have enough importance for this society and for this state, because the High Council of the Judiciary is actually the head of the entire judiciary, therefore, from there should go into any kind of change, modernisation and improvement of the functional work of all other judicial factors. If the High Council of the judiciary is in such troubles and thus compromised, as I said earlier, then what can we expect from lower levels of judicial authority? How are they going to deal with all the challenges and problems of this country, this society that is in serious crisis? Obviously there is no easy answer, which may not be a big problem, but the problem is that we do not see that there is a serious will to give answers to asked questions and we do not see really political will that will make sure that what has started at least declared and ends, and all in the best interests of citizens. Justice reform is not only important because of Euro-Atlantic integration, judicial reform is primarily important because of the everyday lives of citizens, and so do we. If we can do something, because we have certain positions in society and in the country, that we may be able to achieve it, don't think that citizens, which are in fact the last link on which all the failed reforms are paved, can deal with all these daily problems with judicial reform. Therefore, and how significant it is that the High Council of the Judiciary is consolidated, that the High Council of the Judiciary finally begins to work in its full capacity, in full composition, and must first of all make sure that all the problems that are so present in the judiciary are broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65956	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, application for a word, in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: ZES, DSS, SRS and NS. Mr. Srdjan Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65957	Ladies and gentlemen, before us Members of the People's Parliament, there is a dilemma about whether we want to help the High Council of Justice work in full or not, because in the framework of the judicial reform it is possible for the judiciary itself to have a decisive impact on the situation in the judiciary and to have a decisive impact on both the composition and the Council of Justice itself. In accordance with Article 20 and Article 35. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the High Council of the Judiciary, has proposed to the National Assembly candidates to elect a member of the High Council of Judges. On the basis of the electoral activities carried out by judges of appeals courts, the result was that candidate Miroljub Tomic was supported by 126 judges, while the second candidate received 61 votes. Accordingly, it is obvious who received the support of most colleagues, those from whose ranks one should have been chosen to work best on the affairs of the High Court Council. We are here as MPs to see if I am a candidate meets everything that should be done, so that in an adequate way he can work quality as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. On the basis of a personal and professional biography of the proposed candidate, we can conclude that this candidate also has professional, professional knowledge and experience that he can respond to such a difficult task. The fact is that Judge Tomic in his career has passed all the cases of the trial, since the General Court of Joint Work, where he practically began his career in the judiciary, and before that he has worked in the economy since 1987, to cross into the Municipality Court in Kragujevac in 1991. So, practically 20 years ago. Based on an analysis of Judge Tomic's biography, we see that after eight years of trial at the Kragujevac Municipal Court in early 2000, he was elected Judge of the Kragujevac District Court on 1 January 2000. He spent ten years in that place as the District Court judge in Kragujevac. During that time, he was elected President of the Kragujevac District Court, but he was working in parallel with an active subpoena, where he particularly handled criminal matter, which was matter and which he had been dealing with since 1 January 2010, as judge of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal. What is particularly interesting and what is important for the future work of Judge Tomic, if he gets the trust of the National Assembly, which I hope he will, has already been a member of the High Council of Justice, is a member of the Serbian Association for Criminal and Legal Theory and Practice, and I note that this is extremely important, that he was also a member of the Working Party for the Analysis of the work of courts of general jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia. It is the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary and should have knowledge in the area. He was then a member of the working group for drawing up the text of the working version of the Rules of Procedure. This is also important for the conduct of all courts, means a high-quality Rules of Procedure, and it is important that not only theorists but practitioners are included in the writing of the Rules of Procedure. He is now a member of the Working Party for the Introduction of the Judicial Manager and is also a member of the Programme Board of the Judicial Academy and is involved in holding exercises at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac in the area of criminal and procedural law. All this suggests that the proposed judge Miroljub Tomic has qualities and that we can trust the colleagues of Mr Tomic who proposed him for this very important function. What makes me particularly happy is, regardless of these activities Mr. Tomic had outside, to say, the direct work of the judge himself, the fact is that at the end of 2011, Judge Tomic had the work of only 12 unfinished cases and no old subject. That's exactly what an example of how efficient it is to be. I call on all of you at this moment, whether you are in a position, whether you remember in the opposition, or all of us, to support, in accordance with those aspirations that we voted for the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, to allow the judiciary itself to propose our best, to now and in practice confirm this, and to support, in the day of voting, the motion for a decision to elect a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals and to elect Mr Miroljub Tomic, the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac as a member of the High Council of the Court of Appeals from the order of the Court of Appeals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65958	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say one thing at the beginning. Personally, I think that the fate of these points that are on the agenda today will be exactly the same as the fate of the Law on Railways, which is practically never voted in this Assembly, because there was no majority for its vote. Today, we are also witnessing the situation that there is no parliamentary majority, that it is torn apart and that there will be no possibility that we will ever come to terms with this point of the agenda, nor will it actually come to life. I'm sorry it's a personal solution, but it's fate. I think that should have been made clear in time and openly about what we are in today's situation. Here's today for who knows which time we're discussing justice again and the state of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I've been thinking, if one serious analysis and statistics were to be done most frequently debated legislative proposals and decisions, then no doubt the largest number of decisions and legal proposals would come from the judiciary alone. The least debated was here on proposals aimed at improving the situation in the judiciary, and the most debated were the problems produced so-called. By reforming the judiciary, which has reversed the judicial system to the point that today we can talk about reform as one of the worst reforms that has been implemented since 2000, right here. The situation in the Serbian judiciary is the closest concern. The fear that is present with the judge worries that the government has no hidden desire to turn them into its mere hearers and extended hands of authority. What was to be called judicial reform unfortunately resulted in one fiasco and one failure. Because for its ultimate consequence, it has produced that it is permanent, as I would say, lost citizens' trust in the judicial system. Today we are discussing a new member of the High Council of the Judiciary and as I have never dealt with personal solutions, I will not do it today, because I really think that the judges who proposed this candidate were in a much better position than me to know what kind of candidate it was and to simply have insight into what he was doing, and therefore whether he deserved to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, or not. What needs to be open and enlightened today is the issue of the situation in the High Council of the Judiciary and the question of how the High Council of the Judiciary works. On the one hand, we know what the Council of Justice's goal is and how it should work. And on the other hand, I know how the High Council of the Judiciary works in practice. Then when we compare these two things, then it is clear that the High Council of the Judiciary is not properly fulfilling its role. The High Council of the judiciary according to the Constitution and the law should present, in fact, to provide, independence and independence for both courts and judges in Serbia. Unfortunately, he has long worked in a way that seriously questioned the legality of his work, the justice of his work, and the legitimacy of his work. I will remind you only that one member of the High Council of the Judiciary, Mr. Judge Blagoja Jaksic, was detained on 23.09.2011. I'll remind you, though it may not be of any importance to you for today's discussion, that it was a judge who had the highest percentage of the opposition of judges who were not re-elected. I will also remind you that another member of the High Council of the Judiciary, Judge Milimir Lukic, resigned in 23.11.2011 with one detailed explanation of how the High Council of the Judiciary works. Of course, I'm not going to look back on what he said right now because I believe that you, as chairman of the High Council of the judiciary, are very familiar. Furthermore, for the third member of the High Council of the Judiciary, Professor Dimitrijevic, the Anti-Corruption Agency, he found that his function ended under the force of the law because he was in conflict of interest even though he had participated in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary since that day, and what is most important, he took part in the decision-making of the High Council of the Judiciary. It is in the shortest decision, i.e. the state, a demonstration of the situation in the Supreme Council of the judiciary that we have today. It is obvious that the legality and legitimacy of the work of the High Council of the Judiciary has been violated by the fact that it has continued to act, which has continued with its decisions, although two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, it is very important to note that the judges are missing. It is also very important to note that without Judge Jaksic and without Judge Lukic, the High Council of the Judiciary loses most of its judges in its body, i.e. in its functioning, which is, of course, the exact opposite of the Constitution where the Institute's intrinsicity was that members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, have a majority of the judges out of the order, because the Constitution here is clear, because he says that the High Judiciary Council has 11 members of whom most of them are judges with permanent judicial office. So, the thing is, this is how the High Council of the Judiciary is doing so far, it's obvious that it's in conflict with what the Constitution is propagating. Furthermore, without Judges Jaksic and Lukic, four old members of the High Council of the judiciary were unable to decide on the regularity of the decisions they made while they were in place and while they made those decisions in the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. And we have here the fact that decisions have been made. Now I ask you how they were made if the previous two members were not involved in the decision-making process, and four members of the High Council of the judiciary were members of the first class at the same time. So it is obvious that they participated in the decision-making process and did not abstain, as previously foreseen, but voted in favour or against a decision. Here we come to a fundamental qualification, here we come to the fact that the right to a fair trial which is not only propagated by the Constitution, but also promoted by the European Convention. That is why all this is now done, specifically, with the High Council of the Judiciary and with the way he decides completely illegal. The legality and legitimacy of the work of the High Council of the judiciary has also been violated and in this regard we know that only one of the 16 sessions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was held in its full composition. Here again we return to where we say it is necessary to decide that the High Council of the Judiciary acts in full. As representatives of the opposition when these laws were on the agenda, when there was a general reaction on the agenda to the work of the High Council of the Court of First Instance, we had very sharp performances and we warned on time that it was absolutely unacceptable that the High Council of the Judiciary was working in incomplete composition. We see that this error is repeated and now, even though it is a permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Furthermore, the independence of the work of the High Council of the judiciary is constantly being questioned by one continual one, I would say freely, by abuse of office by those members of the High Council of the judiciary who are in the position of that same body. To be even more precise, it is an unwarranted situation for the justice minister, Mrs Malovic, to comment on non-judicial court decisions and to be publicly advertised on the initiative to resolve those judges with whose decision she is not satisfied. That's just inadmissible. It is in conflict with the principle of division of power, with the principle of independence of the judiciary, with the principle of the right to a fair trial or if you want more with the principle of rule of law. I am not concerned now that the minister does not know, he simply is not in a position to know that it is illegal, but I am concerned that the High Council of the judiciary has not responded to such a step by step, Ms Malovic. Also, there is no progress here either when it comes to the public work of the High Council of the judiciary, although we know that it was one of the basic conditions for it to function legally and legitimately at all. So this situation hasn't changed since we've had it before. There is also no progress on the obligation of the High Council of the judiciary to allow all candidates under equal conditions to be informed and to have insight into information that is very important for their status, because they are participants in the process. I must say that the interim composition of the High Council of the judiciary has had a number of failures in its work and, as I said before, the opposition has very justifiedly acted against this kind of work, but we have received assurances that such a way of working will be overcome when it is adopted or when the High Council of the Judiciary in constant composition is in place. Based on what I've said today, it's obvious that these mistakes have not been removed, but they have become even bigger and are even more serious to question the legality, justice and legitimacy of the work of the High Council of Justice. Since it is obvious that the High Council of the Judiciary has lost that attribute to the holder, so to speak, or a guarantee of judicial independence, it is not even inexplicable why the reform of the Serbian judiciary has rightly been called one of the worst reforms since 2000, and here. I would only relate to what my colleague Milos Aligrudic was saying. This worrying situation in the Serbian judiciary will then be opened to the EU institutions and will be one of the conditions for Serbia's further progress towards that direction. I must also say that the EU has no interest now in laying this condition to the Serbian government, because it is obviously much more important that the Serbian government ends up recognising Kosovo's defacto of independence. Here, we see that the regional representation of Kosovo has not yet been touched or so to say at least officially about it we have no information that any agreement has been reached on this. The other day we had a chance in Munich to see that there was an International Security Conference where our foreign minister absolutely didn't mind what happened. The President of the so-called An independent Kosovo to address after him. And that's what happened. Now I ask the question – is this a hint of ending the process of recognising Kosovo's independence? I really want to hear the answer to that question because we know there is no progress in regional representation of Kosovo, at least when it comes to the information we have. Finally, it is clear that this topic will be one of the topics in front of the EU institutions, but then I am fully convinced that this will come from all of us, as well as from international representatives, the full truth about how many shortcomings, how many shortcomings and how much ignorance this reform is carried out with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65960	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have today organised this session of parliament, although this morning Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic says she only believes in a law of probability that could allow you most to vote. But you're doing this because you have to fulfill EU orders. As much as that truth pains you, we do it for the public, every time we point out when it's absolutely like that. Long before the EU, we warned you that what you are doing with the judiciary is not really a reform, but a failure of the Serbian judiciary. Of course, you don't mind until you get your pucks from your European friends who've turned your attention that actually the High Council of the judiciary isn't legitimate. We talked about this a long time ago, and we've discussed examples that suggest it's true, but you're handling the fact that, from the point of view of the judiciary reform, it's very successful. Because the government has managed to ensure absolute influence on this branch of government that should be independent and independent. Who cares in the ruling majority what the letter of the Constitution says? Gentlemen, you have a problem with decisions made so far when it comes to decisions of the High Council of the Judiciary. Because you haven't worked in a long time. If you happen to choose this candidate today, Miroljub Tomic, you are again working in incomplete composition. You don't mind. He says, Mrs. Nata Mesarevic, it is just such a very high-minded statement that the High Council of the judiciary decides most of the votes and that what it does in the british composition is not an obstacle to decision-making. If someone else had said this, we could've laughed. When the President of the Supreme Cassation Court says so, then we have a lot to worry about. According to this logic, Nate Mesarevic, no decision-making body should have more members than the number needed to decide, especially when provided, such as when it comes to the High Judicial Council, that it is those who will vote as they are ordered. That our claim is right confirms Milomir Lukic and his resignation. He said he could no longer stand to be in the service of some who received proposals behind which he only had to vote at the High Council sessions. Of course, this is, when it comes to Milimir Lukic, a bold move, but we wonder if he noticed it only then, on November 23rd, when he resigned or listened to and served the regime until then when it came to making decisions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We don't, of course, have the answer to that question. You have a problem with a member of the High Council of the Judiciary Judge Blago Jaksic and we've talked a lot about it, but let's remind ourselves. He was arrested and charged with suspected involvement in allegedly high corruption. Of course, we in the SRS are very concerned about what we say publicly and we are not The Hague tribunal and we do not remember saying that Blagoje Jaksic is indeed a criminal, we are waiting for the process to be completed to determine whether or not he is. If it turns out that it is, then you should really worry and wonder what the validity of the decisions in which he took part is, and if it isn't, and if it is true what he writes from custody, that he was set up because he didn't want to serve, like Milimir Lukic, but he didn't have time to resign but was arrested, then all the decisions of the High Judiciary Council are just being questioned, because then it would turn out that all those decisions are based on one dangerous criminal act and we don't have any answer to that. We talked at the end of last year about Predrag Dimitrijevic, a member of the High Council of the judiciary until then and the Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis. The man ignored the fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency has found that he is in conflict of interest. Imagine, a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, he doesn't care about the decision of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and he doesn't care about what's in the conflict of interest, and he doesn't care about all of you in the High Council of the judiciary, you've been hiding it, and we've established it and proved it, we've shown you the papers, from the public and from the Assembly the fact that this gentleman is in conflict of interest. You know, we had a case a few years ago when Stevan Lilić, otherwise proven, dirty, devious plagiarist, said he was in legal error, but it's also interesting that in legal error he could be someone who's a professor or in this case even a dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis. It's interesting that you, from the High Council of the Judiciary, don't mind such things, you're not going to advertise in public only when you defend your interests. Only when you're attacked by the Serbian Judges Society is where you come out to defend yourself and they attack you. You weren't attacked from the beginning, when we from the SRS drew attention to the way the judiciary was going, but only when they came into a situation where some of them weren't re-elected. Then they remembered to start criticizing you, as of course this European and Venice Commission. They let you down nicely to destroy the judiciary, so now they appear with objections to the work of the High Council of Justice and otherwise to corruption in the judiciary etc. Also, what we expected from you, Madam of the Council of Justice, if not by the assembly majority, you had to report in at least two cases. Besides what Mr. Martinovic was telling you, I'm talking about two more new ones. Is it possible that you didn't mind the fact that Borko Stefanovic accepted that the Supreme Court of the so-called Supreme Court of Kosovo and Metohija in disputes over the catasters in Kosovo and Metohija be responsible? false Kosovo states? Is it possible that you from the Supreme Cassation Court didn't mind? Do you even follow what is happening in the country of Serbia and you should follow the functions you perform? Also, we have not noticed that you have called when Alexander Vukic has been waving some envelopes for days, as he received Tomislav Nikolic's calls for a misdemeanor court. Doesn't that seem to affect the work of the judicial authorities? By the way, we in the U.S.S. couldn't go public with the information. We talked about it at our press conferences that the SRS received a dozen calls to the court for violations because they were glued to posters, otherwise we suggested witnesses, who were glued by Vucic's activists in the conflict between Vukic and Nikolic, posters with Nikolic's character that said, "He has betrayed the godfather, he will betray you." What is interesting in those calls received by the SRS was also received by Vojislav Seselj, under the threat that he would be forced to be brought if he did not respond to the court for violations. On behalf of the SRS, I was there, so I asked the judge, when they bring Seselj in to let us know, we'd really like to see him. Imagine what's going on, Mrs. Ivić, in the judiciary, and you don't care. When it comes to this obvious Vucic influence on the judiciary, I have to say as far as you're concerned, Mrs. Ivic, I'm not surprised you didn't react. We know well that you are a very flexible person and we know well that you will not have any moral dilemma to cancel obedience to the yellow ones and make yourself available to the promoters, but I do not know whether they are all or seem to be in the High Council of the judiciary of the same moral qualities. That's really... (President: Mrs Radeta, please, we are discussing the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the High Council of Judges of the Court of Justice. Ms Mirjana Ivić is the deputy president of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and is here as a representative of the Proposer. So we're not discussing her. Thank you. ) Mrs. Ivić spoke here or read what we had already received about Miroljub Tomic, a candidate for the High Council of Justice. Among other things, she said that he was born in 1961, and his parents were probably happy at the time, but what's mentioned in this biography is not something that shows and doesn't give the confidence that this gentleman can be an impartial member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Especially why you didn't say what we of the SRS talked about here, which is why Mr. Miroljub Tomic is known in the general public. According to this, Mrs. Ivic, if you did not follow parliament's work, which was the only court in Kragujevac and the only judge, Miroljub Tomic, in all of Serbia, was the judge who agreed to steal the SRS' parliamentary mandates in Kragujevac. So, at the time, the only court in Kragujevac did it. Of course, about how this committee group was formed and the so-called parliamentary group here. Adversaries, we have a lot of evidence, we're talking about it. Among other things, I am now bringing into contact with this Miroljub Tomic, I simply have the right to logically think, Mr. Novakovic, allow me. So, Wikiliks has announced a dispatch where Miki Rakic tells his American friends who and the State Department are notifying it, that he has received a warrant from Boris Tadic to support the formation of a progressive party in every way. Among the others, this and 299 other Wikiliks dispatches were published in the book of Vojislav Seselj "Viquiliks Tells Me" and part. It was, among other things, the reason why we wanted this book to, we claim that we have the right, we promote in parliament, but no, in Parliament everyone, from Sonja Licht to Severina, can only not carry out their activities by the MPs of the SRS. There's no one there, Mr. Novakovic. We're still still waiting when we get to find the team to film the 48 Hour wedding. This is about your haughtiness, about the haughtiness of the congregation's majority that can with 126 votes, but I ask you how you're going to move that 126 now to fulfill the EU's mandates. To return, of course, to what is the subject. That's the High Council of the Judiciary and this gentleman. Here, we are in the last issue of "Great Serbia", the number is otherwise dedicated to the party president, as you can see on the front page -- "The tribunal is trying to kill Seselj," but despite this, of course, we were dealing with some other things. We have two texts regarding the High Council of Justice. Now I'm going to give you some, and I'm going to ask you, Mrs. Ivić, to answer some specific questions when it comes to the work of the High Court Council. I am talking about the text of our young colleague Ivan Ninic, otherwise President of the Anti-Corruption Council of the SRS, a man who has already published two books on the various corruption affairs of this government. So Ivan Ninic here published the minutes from the Council of Justice's session, where the decision of the High Council on judges' objections had been made on the agenda. At that session, Nata Mesarovic said, this is a quote -- two weeks ago I was at a meeting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and on that occasion, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic stressed that the state had taken the obligation to abstain from the first composition during the vote when it comes to these re-elections, or complaints. Where does Mirko Cvetkovic get his right to go, to discuss, negotiate and conclude with Mirko Cvetkovic? Is that acceptable to you, Mrs. Ivić? Can you continue to sit on that High Council of Justice if this is how it is done or if you agree to this? Nata says she thinks abstention from voting is a personal act. What kind of personal act? You are the High Council of the judiciary, you are one of the most important authorities in the state of Serbia. You would destroy the judiciary because you have the personal acts you receive from Andric's wedding. Already the whole of Serbia is buzzing about it, it's a public secret in Serbia. Furthermore, says Nata Mesarovic – the President of the Republic has been informed of the constitutional court's conduct in the cases of the constitutional assessment of the constitutionality disputed by the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges by delivering a copy of the second letter to the President of the Constitutional Court on 5 May 2011. What's Boris Tadic doing with that information? What does he care, and where does the Constitution say that he has the right to interfere in the work of the judicial authorities? But you wanted all this to go away in secret, not you personally. What further did Ivan Ninic discover? This, Mr. Novakovic, is very much on the team, and I will now, and I will ask in the end – will this Miroljub Tomic be able to resist the influence of the Prime Minister and the president of the state, and so far we know, and I already said he couldn't. Now, I'm warning him how the High Judiciary Council works, maybe he'll give it up himself. At the beginning of the second day of the session of Judges Mirjana Ivić, she concluded that at a session that began on July 20th, there was a violation of article 28. And all honours of that were well noted. Also, it must be borne in mind that these sessions, this is now a quote, about increasing and voting on the objections of the unselected judges, so if the increase in each procedure is secret, there is no reason for sound recording. In addition, if there was a recording, it could be made available to the public, said Nata Mesarovic. You intervened and said you should record the session and you're right, but imagine miracles, says Nata Mesarovic, if it is recorded it will be available to the public. So you don't work for your late grandmother, you work for the people to know what you're doing, that the public needs to know what you're doing. This is really a scandal over scandals. According to Nata Mesarovic, she asked the question – who believes it is an obligation to record the session in tone, so Mirjana Ivić, Milimir Lukic, Aleksandar Stoiljkovski, Blagoje Jaksic, Sonja Vidakovic and Branka Bancevic voted for it. You see, it's suspicious what two of these are, one has resigned, one is in custody. It's a good thing you're still here, Mrs. Ivić. Further, Nata Mesarovic said she is the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and manages the session according to the Rules of Procedure and will not record a session of the Council. She gives herself that right, she doesn't care about Article 28. Rules of Procedure. She says she won't shoot, because she doesn't want the public to hear what it's about. Bosko Ristic, of course, threatened - if recorded, he will leave the session, will no longer participate in the work, etc. Some members of the High Council of the Judiciary shall, after holding hearings at the High Council of the Judicial Commission, be given one opinion and the voting court shall make a proposal for a decision to be forwarded to the High Council of the Judiciary and, at the session of the High Council of the judiciary at which the same proposal is decided, the same member shall be declared completely different without any change in the fact that it has not changed. You recognise, this is a quote from the resignation of Milimir Lukic, who could no longer stand to be a pawn in the service of Tadic's pro-Western treason regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65962	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, I would like to remind you that this 2008 National Assembly conference has just begun its work with the laws of the area of justice, so to speak. a set of judicial laws, which we also said would bring in a series of problems and would not lead to the desired results, as presented to us at that assembly at that time. The DSS MPs have clearly criticised certain solutions proposed in 2008 and until today we have presented a number of problems that these legal solutions have caused. Everything we said then absolutely proved that we were right and it proved to be in practice. Yesterday we read the stenograms from that session at the end of 2008 and literally, if we had time, we could read to you today the speeches of the DSS MPs who absolutely correspond to the present moment and state in the Serbian judiciary, which we pointed to. The reform of the judiciary has been so sloppyly implemented that the European Commission for Justice has decided to put in place control of its further implementation. It's no wonder in Serbia. Certain supervision is carried out by the IMF, for individual laws by the Venice Commission, in individual so-called Mr. Cooper's negotiations, and it's obvious that this government must have some tutor and someone to tell them what to do and how to do. But I am much more interested at this point – what is the control function of the Serbian parliament, because I remind you, I don't know if Mrs Ivić is aware of this, that DSS MPs have raised the issue down the road – why is the High Council of the Judiciary working in incomplete composition? Why was it taken three years for the state's chief prosecutor to complete the election of representatives of Serbia's Bar Association? These laws, which led to these problems, were brought quickly, without public debate. Certain provisions of these laws introduce retroactivity. Certain provisions even violate the continuity of the judge's office. I only remind you that due to such provisions and certain decisions of the High Council of the judiciary, proceedings have been initiated before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and these proceedings have not been initiated by the Malian society, nor by the pigeon society, but by the Association of Judges of Serbia, the people who made or made decisions on behalf of the people in this country, and I am sure they are well aware of the laws and understand themselves in this procedure. To return you to the European Commission, which tried to pressure the Ministry of Justice in November 2010 to end certain procedures, i.e. to speed up these reforms. What was done in the meantime? Absolutely nothing. We have exchanged in this House, passed and adopted, or the ruling majority, amendments and additions to laws that were passed six months or a year ago. Some action plans were adopted, some promises were made. I just remind you, on the basis of the Supreme Council's decision to re-election the judges and that we pointed to clear examples, that people had made celebrations in their cities before telling your decision because they knew they'd be elected. What costs have been made, have some savings been made by such a reform of the judiciary, since we know that hundreds of people who have not passed the re-election and today receive cash compensation, some being two, three or four months late? What's going on in the absurd today? Probably the last working day of the National Assembly, we are discussing a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, for which Mrs. Ivić presented in her opening statement, that Mr. Tomic received 126 votes from his colleagues. A strange comparison, or coincidence, and we are not at all sure whether Mr Tomic will receive 126 votes in this House and be elected a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So this is a show for the people, this is for TV transmissions, not for the Serbian judiciary to function properly. We don't know if we're going to work tomorrow, whether we're going to work next week, whether a big 50-point session is going to be held now, because some MPs condition their presence by resolving their vice-presidents and their ministers. The reform of the judiciary cannot be implemented on good wishes, as Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic and his cabinet do. Ms. Malovic, as justice minister and people who are her co-workers at the justice ministry, obviously showed that they are incompetent, irresponsible and unprofessional to implement justice reform, but I promise the citizens of Serbia that since May, after the elections, we will deal with these problems and in a much better way with the Serbian judiciary, above all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of course, the holders of judicial functions in order to allow them to do their job with their congratulations, honestly and professionally, rather than depending on the will of Bosko Ristic, Minister Malovic, Boris Tadic or any other official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65964	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65965	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given how long it has been since the previous session and the previous session, I must say that I did expect there to be more representatives of the ruling coalition present today in the hall, but even one of the first news we heard this morning was that, as President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, she said that, given that it is an extraordinary session, thank God, and that all 83-84 MPs were required to open the session, 83, 84, 85 you have already accumulated, that the Assembly, thank God, will be able to begin uninterrupted with work. I have to say that today a very important debate is being held outside of this room, which is why this dissenting debate, in fact, is deciding whether this government has a majority or does not have a majority. It may have become a previous question, if we already want to use legal terms, to which someone had to answer us, even before this debate. Mr. Novakovic, you yourself know all the problems the ruling coalition has. It's also the fact that it's been known that you haven't had a majority in a long time. The only thing that kept this government together for four years, though, and those who leave it is more and more every day and run from a sinking ship, is a desire for power. The basic question here is – do you have a moral right? In addition to legitimacy, do you have the legality to choose anything, and where do you choose representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary? Of course, it won't bother you, and you never mind that you don't have a majority. When you deal with it, you just postpone the session. However, I think it is a waste of the time of the people's MPs and the money of the citizens of Serbia who pay us. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the High Judiciary Council has 11 members. Since the founding of the High Council of the Judiciary, he has practically never worked fully. It's gonna keep going, that's all. Now you're choosing a new member of the High Council of the Judiciary, and you've actually lost two or three in the previous period. When you choose and select this new member, the Council will not be able to work again, because this constitutional proportion, which says that out of 11 members, six must be from the ranks of judges. It's actually a guarantee of independence. I don't know how you understand this division of power to executive, legislative and judicial, but I guess the bottom line is that executive power can't put pressure on the legislative one, and the fact is that for many years, the National Assembly is just a government service and now you're trying, and you've totally managed to subdue that judicial branch of power, because most of the people sitting in the High Council of Justice have just been elected thanks to the executive authority. It is very difficult for me to explain to you now, as the Constitution says that the National Assembly must have 250 MPs, it also says that the High Council of the judiciary must have 11 members, six of which from the judiciary's order, but now how can I explain it to you who led to this, I am talking about the DOS regime and the various aggregate forms, which you have brought to the attention of time, that the Assembly has some 300 members, at a time when you have completely counter-constitutionalally taken away certain MPs' mandates, so the famous professor, of course famous for the bad things, Gašo Knezevic, has withdrawn his resignation, the legal genius, and said that he was in legal error. You've voted from Bodrum in time, and there's no such thing as an anti-democracy act that's not entirely foreign to you. How can someone explain to you now that the High Council of the judiciary must have 11 members and that it cannot work by having three members in prison, three elected and five appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is this the independent judiciary you promised and which you have promised for 12 years to the citizens of Serbia? As for the candidate himself, of course you claim that he is moral, professional and responsible, but I will remind you that you have claimed that for all previous ones. In your time, you also claimed that Goran Kljajevic was extremely professional, moral, and then you finally found that he was part of that bankruptcy mob, so you arrested him. Of course, since it is deeply linked to the management of the DS and what none of the frauds committed by the bankruptcy mafia and the robbery of Serbian citizens could have been done without the top DS leadership, you can see that the case is not spoken of in public and is not known what is wrong with them. Instead of the process being completed, rather than the statement by Justice Minister Mrs Malovic, she pleads on many things she is essentially not entitled to, which is completely pushed under the carpet. You don't have, and I've said that most of it for a long time. If you already want to operate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the Constitution, Mr Novakovic, this National Assembly had to hold a first vote on the interpretation of Minister Sretkovic's work, which the SRS submitted in July last year. According to the Constitution, the deadline for the government to respond to the interpretation is 30 days, which is the longest possible deadline and a serious government, the responsible government would probably do so within a short period of time. Then that's what we have to discuss. The debate also involves a vote. It's not a debate to discuss. The fact is that you do not want to replace this minister at this time, because it is clear that the SPO is no longer supporting him. You solved it by deciding who knows which way to brutally violate the Constitution and push it under the carpet. The basic principle of this unfortunate government in an even more unfortunate country is just to push the problem under the carpet. Whenever there's a question you don't have most of it, you do it nicely under the carpet. When the KiM issue came on the agenda, you have been here for weeks and months misleading Serbian citizens, deluding MPs and speaking – a session will be scheduled on Tuesday, and on Thursday you say, on Friday, you will be spending until Monday. Even on the weekends, you kept us on alert, and you spoke – it will be on Saturday, it will be on Sunday, etc. There is no debate because you do not have the majority to confirm the agreements signed by Boris Stefanovic, which I assume Boris Tadic designed. It is a shame that there is no transmission from the National Assembly's session, because if there were, that the media are correctly reporting, you would all see that at yesterday's session of the KIM Committee, the ruling majority and these agreements and the KIM Minister have been more strongly criticised by DS representatives, representatives of the ruling coalition from the SPS, G17, etc. than we have done by the representatives of the opposition. We gave our judgment a long time ago. What we have heard and what is an additional reason for us not to vote on this proposal is that this is the n step within this famous reform of the judiciary that you are conducting. You've been reforming the judiciary for 11 years, this is 12, and every assembly meeting is at least once, some and a half times, experiencing that you're bringing us sets of judicial laws, pouring from hollow to empty, crossing the species, organisational structure of courts, the number of judges and everything else, and the result is getting worse and worse every time. Instead of being more content with citizens, instead of bringing them closer to the possibility of exercising their right in accordance with the law, their rights are, in fact, further and further away. We heard from even SPS representatives that this is another of the conditions that we need to meet to finally win Serbia's EU bid. After 11 years of meeting the conditions, after 11 years of humiliation to the Serbian people, humiliation to the state, humiliation to this parliament when you had to adopt a declaration of non-existent genocide in Srebrenica, to separate those victims from all other victims and many major victims who fell during the war, from delivering Serbian generals, Serbian heroes, Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic and all others, selling the best Serbian businesses and all that you did, all those humiliations were not enough to become at least a candidate, because you are still 11 full years of candidate. Is it possible for someone to be so politically illiterate and not have so much contact with reality to point out as an argument – it is a condition that we get an EU bid. Can you once give us the final list of these conditions that need to be met, in order to finally get that unfortunate candidacy, and it is clear to you and to us that we cannot win this candidacy if we do not openly give up KIM. This is exactly what happens through these agreements that you don't have a majority in parliament, but you don't want to admit it. It is time for all of you to come out openly, whether you want or not to want Serbia in KIM. For Cedomir Jovanovic, for Boris Tadic, it is obvious for Tomislav Nikolic that they do not want to, but to watch him say it without losing any political point. The SRS is the only open and honest saying -- we do not want the EU, we do not want at any cost to give up Serbia's KIM. You're talking, it's another topic, you're talking about changing the name of the street and the square in Bujanovac. Do you know who took part in this besides those we can't blame? We can't blame the representatives of Shiptar, but we can resent Stojanci Arsic, if I'm not mistaken, he's from the URS... (President: But it is not on the agenda of Stojanca Arsic, but rather the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Connect, please. )......................................................................................................... And we can blame Boban Pavlovic, I end up with the DS. As for this fact that you point out, this candidate got a high percentage of support from his colleagues, he got 60 percent, what does that even mean? What does that even mean in the judiciary as it exists today in Serbia, in which everything is teledated? I worked in court and I know what the judges' election looks like at any level. By choosing politically alike. Before this formal or quasiform election here, there was one much more important choice, and that was the previous choice, when the candidate is elected, because the candidate is voted after the inert, the vote is that you don't mind someone. Most judges do the same things they get. When a case comes to court that mentions a political party or a politician, everyone escapes, you can't catch up with any of the judges by the halls. Why? They don't want to object, because you've given them fear for the past 11 years, because they know that if they don't work on a political dictatorship, that they will be resolved or, as you say, that they will not be re-elected, that they will not advance to a higher court, etc., and that there is the possibility of a formal resolution. So this informal choice with candidate status is something that is incomparably more important. Besides, if that's an argument, come on, tell us how many percent of the vote was given to a judge who's been lying and rotting in jail for months. How is it possible for someone who's been a member of the High Council to be in jail for five months and not get rid of anything? Is there a more urgent procedure and an urgent matter than that for two reasons, or to prove him innocent, or to allow him to have this assumption of innocence that exists everywhere except in The Hague tribunal, that it is preserved, because if someone lies in prison for five months, many think that he is guilty, muddyed in the newspapers, dragged through and gave any titles. If he is not innocent, then condemn him, confirm that Serbian citizens' faith in an independent judiciary. If there is a need for efficiency somewhere, it is necessary in such cases. You're in no condition to ensure efficiency anywhere. A few days ago, a trial was scheduled for a private criminal suit against Tomislav Nikolic for public harassment. You will remember that he was crying at all mouths in time as Vojislav Seselj ordered him killed, so he said it wasn't the first time that Vojislav Seselj ordered them to be killed by the Hague tribunal, but my God, since he and Vukic were very nice, they didn't want to kill anyone, but it didn't bother them to stay for a few years in the SRS. Do you think this moral misery has come to court to confirm, to stand by those words? Of course not, he avoided the trial. He has avoided trial, as he is likely to be avoided in the future, so he hopes that through some future coalition with his ideological clones from the DS he will be freed of responsibility. It is a judiciary that exists today in Serbia. There are really a thousand other reasons I could name, but because of this time that's short, now I'm going to have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65966	The word has a folk MP, Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65967	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ilic, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, all of this represents one great game, a great farce. In fact, the High Council of the judiciary is controlled by the regime of Boris Tadic and DS via Bosko Ristic, Snezana Malović and Nate Mesarevic and judges present in the High Council of the judiciary, who should have done most of them, who for years could not have had a majority, although so prescribed, are ordinary puppets of the regime and you are really not guilty of anything. Simply, we have in place a party state, the party state of Boris Tadic and DS, which, by breaking the Constitution, broke the laws, established control over all three branches of government, executive, judicial and legislative and this brutal control, without respecting any single regulation, of course, without respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then we have even pointless statements from some representatives of the Serbian parliament, that the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures, that it should be changed as soon as possible and that reality should be recognised. The other man in the country formally puts that attitude, and it is there that DS representatives and advances who were created by US associate Miodrag Rakic in Boris Tadic's cabinet. That, therefore, is not disputed. So the biggest problem and the greatest danger to Serbia is the anti-democracy of the government led by Boris Tadic, led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which does what it does when it comes to the Serbian judiciary, and it is not really controversial. When it comes to judicial reform, it is very interesting to mention that, you were forced to listen to the instructions of the American bar of law, because a judicial reform was carried out by an Abacelli organisation, which was formed by the American bar of attorney, which, you imagine, proposed and gave solutions to how to operate the Hague tribunal. So, the US bar, which provided selfless assistance in forming an anti-judicial and anti-legal institution, such as the UN tribunal, years ago, came after October 5th to reform the Serbian judiciary. Of course, the Americans didn't come here just to reform the Serbian judiciary, they hit the whole Serbian state. The destruction of the Serb army, conducted by Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac and other defence ministers, began. Also, they have hit on all traditional institutions, national ones, such as the Serbian Orthodox Church and simply the occupier do what is expected of him. The problem is that the representatives of these, to say the conditionally speaking, the authorities of the Republic are silent about what they can't say, even though this is all true. The most important figure in the Serbian prosecutor's office and in the Serbian judiciary, in this created by Boris Tadic, is Natasa Kandic. You know, when she enters a special court, a special prosecutor's office, just prosecutors and judges watching her reaction and assessing what to do. The High Council of the Judiciary kept quiet about it. Natasa Kandic is, you can see in the documentation published in the book "Police File", run in the archives of state security... (President: I am sorry, Mr Alexic, but Mrs Kandic is not proposed as a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals, which we are discussing today, so please connect. Also, please don't throw Mrs. Radet away. ) Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, but certainly we all have the right to look at all of this from a broader perspective, because it's simply one thing that stands on paper, and one thing that's written in the Constitution is what the law says. However, there are obviously personalities in Serbia that are outside the law, and also affect the High Council of the judiciary, affecting judges, affecting prosecutors. One of those people, who is not allowed to do anything in Serbia, is Natasa Kandic, who can even slap refugees on the street and therefore doesn't answer. You know, prosecutors can't start proceedings against parade organizers since 10 October 2010, nor can judges take it into trial and judge it, even though their promoter was Frank van Dalen, a well-known paedophile from the Netherlands. Instead, you've started to hack into representatives of the national patriot organizations and arrest them. So, instead of banning the organizations that made that sick event, where their promoter at the conference was a pedophile from the Netherlands, you keep quiet about them, you praise them, you bring them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you declare it the highest value. So these are the perverse values. What is a fact, it is also through the "Abacelli", which implements the judicial reform in Serbia, we have a kind of tribunal of the justice of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever controls The Hague tribunal is clear to all. Representatives of the UN tribunal's prosecutors themselves, such as Florence Artmans, have stated in their works very explicitly that the British and US intelligence services are controlling a criminal prosecution strategy in The Hague. That means that it was those people who tried to kill Vojislav Seselj during the 1990s who accused him before The Hague tribunal, with the co-operation of Serbian authorities, to eliminate him from a political scene in Serbia. This means that the proceedings against Vojislav Seselj are being misused. However, judges and prosecutors here in Serbia are silent. They don't even want to mention it on the way. The brave were dissidents among whom Vojislav Seselj was at the time of the communist Yugoslavia. They had the courage to raise their voice and stand up for the protection of many people who were unjustly in prison, but today there is no such thing, and today as we have democracy. We have no democracy, we have a kleptocrat, where Boris Tadic and his tycoon team rob Serbia. Indeed, you have seen that in the courts there is first of all judgment for those who are poor, who do not have enough money, and that the tycoons remain untouchable. No one touches them. The tycoons, which owe five billion euros in contributions, did not pay contributions to employees and the state, are at large. They enjoy all the rights. Someone who says something publicly or commits a minor offense, is wrongly parked, for example, you are stalking him, being haunted by Boris Tadic's regime. So there's a whole caste of people above the law. As long as that's the case, Serbia will be in big trouble. As long as it's like that, we won't have a constitution, i.e. We will not respect the Constitution, nor will we respect the principle of division of power. It is a shame, because Serbia had a special category of priests who had an obligation to protect the poor and threatened against the violence of the rich, the violence of the powerful in the early 13th century. Today, however, this is not happening, simply because the government does not care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and leaves Serbia to tycoons who, during Jelicin, see what these tycoons of oligarchs have done to one Russia, that Russia has been fighting against them for many years and simply cannot put them under full control. So, the whole story with the High Council of Justice, in general with the judiciary in Serbia, is farce, because judges and prosecutors generally have to do as the Boris Tadic cabinet directive comes to them. That cabinet has put the entire state under control. His publics, such as Miki Rakic, such as Jovan Ratkovic, co-workers of Great Britain and the United States, can really do whatever they want in Serbia. It is true that in the US Embassy's dispatch of November 19th, 2008, Miodrag Rakic was speaking in the middle of the US Embassy in Belgrade about how he was ordered by Boris Tadic to break the SRS, eliminate Vojislav Seselj and create advances. It's very detailed in this dispatch and really the description given here is inexorable. There, these people also influence Serbian courts, they also affect the Serbian prosecutor's office. Their ultimate goal is to create a two-party system that will be under control, fully control of the West, where they will be replaced occasionally by left and right hands and will be anyway, as in the United States who is in power anyway. The two-party system also announced Tomislav Nikolic in its own time. In such a system, the judge and prosecutors will be regular puppets. They will be used by low-level DS or advances if they are given such power. Right now, such power is in the hands of the DS. So, every man who thinks freely, who thinks with his own head, who is free of spirit, has the obligation to rise up against such injustice, has the obligation to raise his voice against such a party state, as he has the obligation to raise his voice and against The Hague tribunal, in which they kill Vojislav Seselj, with selfless help from the authorities, because in 2010, Sutanovac and his society banned Dr Zdravko Milović from giving their opinion on the health status of Vojislav Seselj. Now that doctors have gone to examine Vojislav Seselj, the health ministry has also made a large number of failures and what it has promised has not been fulfilled in the end. So, these are simply facts, and you, for example, in the High Council of the Judiciary, manage certain principles that come from the United States, which come from The Hague, so how is that possible? Fourteen Serbs from the UN tribunal's warrant have been liquidated or died in The Hague tribunal, or very soon after their release from the detention unit. Many under unexplained circumstances. People are being tried for non-existent crimes, for crimes that were not prescribed at the time. He is being tried for a joint criminal enterprise whose third category is a classical collective criminal liability, which is banned, and is also silent. Through those honorable Serbs accused in The Hague tribunal, the whole of Serbia and the entire Serbian people are being accused. And the state, this party state agrees, but these judges who are current with us, as well as prosecutors, also agree, and then no wonder what's going on with Serbia. So, no matter where you are, no matter what you do or what you do in the High Council of the Judiciary, you have to respect the law, you have to respect the Constitution, and you have to understand that these acts are above the DC officials. When you realize that, better days will start for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65968	Mr. Krassic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65969	And how many minutes, Mr. Novakovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65970	Fifteen, round.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65971	More, more. Tell Mrs. Comic she forgot her sleigh back there.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65972	No, not 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65973	No problem. Mr. Novakovic, I would recommend that everything I fail to say in these 15 minutes, you can find in the latest "Greater Serbia" -- the tribunal is trying to kill Seselj. I would recommend, Mr. Novakovic, that you appear on February 25th at 13.00 in Arena, where we hold a large rally "Serbia will not enter the EU, Serbia will Seselj" to join you, to raise all votes against the EU, which has been terrorising Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal for nine years. I also recommend that you take the book "Vikilix Answers Me." You could hear the parts from Mr. Alexic, but there are even better things about our judiciary. Now that I've recommended this paper, the 34th page is the text of "DS Law-Making". And here we have reports, among other things, of the tone recording of a session of the High Council of Justice when it was voted, six members were to record it, five were against, Bosko Ristic threatened to leave the session and, of course, Mrs. Nata Mesarevic said - no recording, because it could be made public, please. It can't be transparent. Mr. Novakovicu, there is a beautiful icon, here are Mrs. Nata Mesarevic and Snezana Malovic, which is a kind of unity of two goddesses, Nata Mesarevic as Tenida and Snezana Malovic as Dika. One is the goddess of justice, and the other is the goddess of legal proceedings. They were sitting next to Zeus, Zeus in this story is Boris Tadic. When he shares justice, he calls these two ladies. You see, Nata has glasses, she has no cloth over her eyes, and she doesn't hold a sword in her right hand, she has a left scale. So you can see that our justice is watching. Our justice with open eyes is watching. When you read Mr. Novakovic this text will be much, much clearer to you. Now let's start with the agenda theme, I'm just surprised that so few people have applied for this debate. There are people here who have long been MPs, so Veroljub Tomic is not an unknown person. Mr. Novakovic, if you know her in that building, we've driven her away from being the President of the Kragujevac District Court. It's a pain in the ass to drive him away and somehow get the parties to agree on everything. What happened to the man in the meantime? He didn't change his biography, did he? Well, that was one of the worst district courts. He couldn't pass for V.D. during the first election. President of the Court of Appeal. Now we have a demonstration of democracy. As democracy works, 217 judges in four appeals courts, the same vote as both the vote and the election of committees and MPs, a large majority of the vote was elected. I beg your pardon, some of the deans were elected here, or suggested for these organs, so they couldn't get through in the National Assembly. I'll return to these four missing voices later. Why is that four-vote story important? To forget who Miroljub Tomic is. Well, you can see from his biography that it's the reformer of our judiciary. Please, when you hear that a man is committed to reforming our judiciary and that he has been active for the past few years in judicial reform, that is the crown proof that he is not to be chosen. Well, what does this judiciary look like? Explain to me, please. And today on the pillar of shame for the justice of Dick and Tenid, modern. And where are the idea makers? It has started since we received lawyers for justice ministers, Batic, right, Stojkovic, Dusan Petrovic is now only understood in agriculture, and the principle of continuity of judicial function is incontinuous. You've entered a re-election you can't get out of and you'll never get out of that problem. Blagoje Jaksic was finally arrested, why? Because 60, 70% of the appeal was accepted by the judge. And then we remembered an object from ten years ago, let's move it. Lukic submitted a man's resignation, he says – there's no record there, people? What are the references? Nati liked that in the Special Court of War Crimes, or organized crime, the special department, as it is called, had twice the salary, boasted, we got the verdict to read it, remember what and gave the bank to get in the car, now it doesn't help even two million people get out of the car. And I went in there, and there's no getting out of that story. He's not letting go. Bosko Ristic, the Serbian judiciary's favorite character. Whatever that man caught in politics, he disfigured it. And the community of state, you remember, those charters and those transformations from the court, that I don't tell you. You'll see in the paper, he won't work if you have to make a public record of who voted. You too need to check the tub – Miroljub Tomic. That's the one you need. Why? To turn most of it around on the High Council of the Judiciary. Imagine six of them, asking to be public, to keep records, to know what is what, to apply, but no, the forces of darkness. Zeus told Dickie and Thamidi – when I share justice, my dear goddesses must go there. The Romans invented an adventure, you know, Mr. Novakovic. So they joined Dick and Thamida together. However, there is another mythic character left here, now the secretary of state at the justice ministry is Adikia. It's Sister Dicke's own, and she's in charge of injustice. So, the goddess of injustice, State Secretary Free Homen. He's commenting on all the items. He knows everything in advance. What do people need? People need finally justice in a court of law, not a transformation of reforms that are their own goal. The judiciary can't get out of trouble. It can be written by one Civilian Protector and a Commissioner for Information, you can compete with the Society of Judges, but what the public knows is that you have conducted a kind of tribunal of the Serbian judiciary. She saw a frog, where the horses are wetting, and she picked up her cap, and she's expecting a horseshoe. It doesn't matter that a frog can't hold a horseshoe, you've raised a leg to look like the EU, because the EU has no alternative for you and for you, and for the ordinary world who asks him. That's not interesting. He says it's a career judge. Tomic's career judge, so let's have a laugh. Imagine a man at the Justice Academy writing some new regulations for transformation. So who's going to vote for him? He's got a bad reference. He's got a bad reference, but that's why when he's ordered to finish his job. Why aren't some of the opposition parties criticizing this man today? They took a vow. Until a few years ago, he was criticized. No, you're not. Why? In the end, the problem will depend on four SPS MPs. You see, he's getting ready for the public. No more Miroljub Tomic. Anyway, it'll pass. The system doesn't matter if the cat is white or black. The important thing is to catch mice. So where did you find it in February when the cats went to the dump? Just in February when cats go to the dump. Who's supposed to sit on that High Court Council? Well, I guess the best-quality people. What's proof that he's a quality man? Passed the election. How long has it been since the election? And that's your guarantee that you're quality people. It's just a guarantee that you've won the people's will, and do you have any expertise? Excuse me, it's someone professional above the estimate. And now the judges can do it on a democratic basis. Most of it's for him, come on, go. So wait, is there any stains in the past? It doesn't matter. And even Slavic answers, if he was the president of the court, when she was persecuted by her coalition partners in Kragujevac and she forgot. Take everything life gives you. As soon as you promote the EU you live well, you get nice, you get 4-5 applications, you take pictures, it's that every day you bang like Maxim in Division, diametrically different statements. It doesn't matter. It all goes away. Why does everything go away? The EU has no alternative. There's proof of that, so here's the WikiLeaks. The WikiLeaks has announced that you are the fifth column, that you go for your own opinion. Sinisa Okic, president of that district court, goes to the US Embassy to appeal to the police minister. How could he come to work tomorrow? How could he come to work? Dusan Ignatovic from the Co-operation Office and he goes there. Bruno Vekaric and he's going there. They go there, they talk all kinds of things, they report to the boss. Jackie, get on your feet. Jackie comes by and tells the story. You expect in such an environment that citizens have confidence in court decisions. How is that possible? Imagine in this special department there's no record, but a real transcript and a lawyer finds that there's something in the transcript that he didn't say and he's looking for video and audio footage. He's been running the procedure for three years. Fourteen decisions exist that the president of the district court, or this higher court, Albianic, must give it. Even Shabic punished him with 200,000 dinars. And now he's the only candidate for president of that court. No one else was allowed to compete. It's all right. Why? We have 126. Oh, it's 126. That's Saturn, Jupiter, Justicia, Dick, Mike, Pero and Dick. Why? The question is, are we going to get candidate status to start long-term talks on possible approximation, if any, of the EU out there in 2389? It's the highlight of your policy. You, if Tomic doesn't pass, it's the SPO. What did this president of ours say? He says -- and Riza Halimi wants to vote, but not to be 126, but 127. Please explain to me how these judges will believe in the quality of the High Council of the Judiciary when they depend on Riza Halimi? From his voice like 127? Do you know how much Rizu Halimi is interested in whether a very good candidate has passed? Like last year's snow, he's interested. If you get a little money, there'll be a vote. We know exactly when Canak comes in how much money has come in. You know exactly who gives the quorum for what money. You don't care. The important thing is that the EU will commend you, Mr. Novakovic. The European Commission, I'm just afraid they're starting to cut veins of happiness. Finally, Europe came to life in Serbia. You take everything unspeakably. These judges, I have this entire list, which went abroad to The Hague Tribunal, to America, do you know if I would vote for them to be judges? Never. They're bragging about going to be chipped. What's chipping in with us? I guess you can see what's chipping in here. I don't even need to mention the name. Now we come to the subject of disciplinary and criminal proceedings against judges. It doesn't. It's stopped. How can you doubt the judge? Mr. Novakovic, when this re-election dance began, a mental error was made. Until yesterday, the man was both professional and capable and worthy, today he lost his dignity. What about his judgments? He didn't lose his dignity overnight. No, the BIA has submitted a report to anyone who is suitable for co-operation, who is not suitable for co-operation. They used to have only the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, because he was in charge of them, so they kept him under control. Now they've changed a little bit, now they've got full control of the entire judiciary. They control judges and citizens expect justice in this kind of justice. Is that possible? You expect it from those of Bodrum, Turkey, to be voted by one law. These are from Bodrum. Neda Arneric flew a woman to Bodrum, however, while voting her card was there. She was transporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65974	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Before I give my word to the National MP Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, allow me to welcome, in your name and in my name, members of the Faculty of Law Club in Belgrade, who are currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery, and with us are: Srdjan Zoraj, Sređan Maričić, Djordže Dvornić, Miljan Ćirović, Djordje Vuković, Nikola Babić, Jelena Jovanovic, Katarina Dvivac, Marija Dašić, Marija Milivojević, Kovačević, Ivana Nisevic, Vladan Nisavić, Vladna Stojanović, Igor Milojevic, Damjan Kulundzic, Uros Pešić, Vladimir Ljefkovac and Dino Crljan. Welcome to your house. Mr. Savior, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us two points of the agenda – a decision to elect a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals and a proposal to make a decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors. What can I say? There is an atmosphere of terrible urgency, that without this practically nothing will be able to work, and therefore this session is scheduled in this extraordinary session as being or not to be. I would ask you what we did to fill in members of the High Council of the D.A.'s State Council before the reform of the judiciary, when I repeatedly warned from this pay phone that decisions should not be made if both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutor were not complete, so we entered that so-called reform of the judiciary, all that was happening with the elections? Very often, at that time completely incomplete compositions decided when practically all the judges in this country chose. It now turns out that this is so important that without this, nothing will work, and Serbian citizens have thousands and thousands of other problems and I know that these problems are not of great interest to them. Those who have contacts with the judiciary and lead litigation that lasts for many years are particularly responsible for those executive proceedings, i.e. executions that they probably know will never be executed, and they have been charged so much that they are probably more sick than both the court and the justice, and most often in such a situation than the state. I don't want to talk about the candidates themselves. First of all, from this order to the public prosecutors, these are young colleagues who are likely to be elected if this vote is held at all. I can wish them honorably and responsibly to perform their duties. I've heard correct things about the candidate on the election of a member of the High Council and so much I can say that it's a single correct judge, as can be seen from this biography. What's the problem here? You know, the problem is most often to commend someone when you're an opposition MP. I remember when we were choosing a member of the State's Major Prosecutors from the Law Department, we praised the man publicly twice, because it was an excellent candidate and then the man was not elected twice, so that only from the third time I was elected and then I said it in a joke like that – the third time I won't say anything positive and, thank God, the man was chosen. It seems to me that it is not good and desirable when you commend someone, because right away those who choose will say, "Well, God, what if those of the opposition praise this man are not theirs, and we know that no one who is chosen should be in one legal state, not that it should not have anything to do with parties or any protections, but that they should be the best candidates." That time in Serbia, unfortunately, did not come and it will be a long time before it all gets worked out. It's a good thing they need these fellow students from law school to hear it. I think there's a lot of things that are more pressing, and if there's already some people who are going to decide about this tomorrow, some things are completely wrong. First of all, I believe that there is a major failure of power, but probably a deliberate failure, you know that in Serbia for two, two and a half years, the judges have been acting as judges, and we have seen that practically before the elections themselves, a competition for their choice was held for permanent functions. Very clear, V.D. You will be as long as the government lasts, and when the government is done we will set you up to be chosen permanently, so you will be nice for another four years. That way, in one legal state, things can't be set up. Whoever puts it that way is in complete error, because it's not practically their judge, or the opposition, or those of power. Judges in this country must be completely independent and not depend on who or when. By setting up such a thing, at this point is the selection of these V.D.s. The president of the courts, that they should be elected, leads us to feel absolutely right that all of this is done in thought and believe and is, unfortunately, so. But anything in this country is possible. In this country it is possible that 1,500 people are elected without about 700-800 being elected, so it is possible that these candidates, I understand these people, I have nothing against it, because I feel sorry for those who may have to be chosen, because they have to live on something, but for two and a half years they have been getting compensation for what they're doing. It is in a reduced relationship, but it's the most beautiful thing for them. I don't know what system it's based on, because we know that the set, the chosen faces at the end of the function can only receive some, by law, six months of only the attributes that belonged to them. I wonder where that comes from, does that fund our countries? There's a saying it's funded by someone on the side. It's completely irrelevant, what's happening on the ground is important. I would ask everyone at the Department of Justice and these people who will be elected and all those who participate in the judiciary to take care. I've spoken several times for these four years that the main problem in the judiciary, other than the personal ones, which are very often and major problems, is the executive procedure that we've replaced, something we've done, something that's changed it. This is not the essence of the solution, because the judicial system will be in complete collapse if judicial decisions are executed in this way. They repeat once again because it is of Serbian citizens' interest, from legal persons in business courts to natural persons in ordinary litigation, that it is a complete collapse because it is a big problem that large court fees for our incomes, i.e. for people who receive, are practically preventing people from having their right, property rights or anything, because they cannot dare enter the procedure because they can happen to take a first paid taxi, when they see that there is a second and a third and a fourth and a fifth, in the process they give up. It's a key problem, so I suggested multiple times from this pay phone, except for the initial act, possible lawsuits and taxes, everything else. Even from the minister of justice and from many colleagues, I received the support that the later tax on judgment, execution, and all that was done was according to the done thing. Then we would probably satisfy the citizens of Serbia who would pay for that preparatory part, for that first court fee, which would benefit the state, and now the situation is that even for this first court fee, people can't pay, and yet the trials have to be conducted, and then there are various gaps in the judiciary budget, etc., not to be obliged, because I'm running out of time. Once again, if the ruling majority has the opportunity to vote and if the vote is collegiate to congratulate these young people who will be elected, I mean prosecutors. I hope that she will do her job in a safe way and that at least some of these things that I said here may be heard, because I think they are instructive, and I hope that those who decide on it at last, or some other who will come tomorrow, will change something for the improvement of Serbia's citizens, when it comes to the justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65976	Thank you, Mr. Savior. (Risa Halimi, from the scene: Replica. You have no right to a replica. With this, we have exhausted the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. I'm asking if anyone else who hasn't used their right to Article 96 wants a word? Yeah. ) The word is presented by the speaker, Mrs Mirjana Ivić, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65977	I'm expected to answer a number of questions you've asked. I won't answer any of them because they've been repeated more than once, so I wouldn't want to repeat myself in that part. One thing that's clear and you need to know is that the High Council of the Judiciary is doing according to the Constitution and the laws that you've passed. The laws say that the High Council of the judiciary consists of 11 members, but that decisions are made by the majority of all members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, is that all 11 will take part in the vote. The Constitutional Court's decision, which the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary almost commented on, and in the sense that the Supreme Council of the judiciary took a stand in its first decision, which is the decision of the Council, that not all members should be present, neither in the constitution nor in the vote, but that most members of the Council should be required. Why the Constitutional Court changed its mind and attitude, I couldn't answer that, but it's not the first time the Constitutional Court has changed its mind about important and important things. I'm very grateful to my colleague, Veronica Radett, as a lawyer. I like her discussion, but it hurt when she said I was flexible. I really didn't, and this can be seen from all the records held at the High Council meetings of the judiciary on the proposals of committees working in the interrogation and running hearings with unselected judges, and therefore, with that finding and unverified information, I really couldn't agree. As far as the other issues are concerned, I really don't want to answer because the President of the High Council of the judiciary has already made statements, so that there is no repetition, I think it would be too much today to comment on. There's just one more thing to say. You have commented on the percentage of 63 that Miroljub Tomic, judge of the Court of Appeal, has won, that he is who he is, and to all of you here who are, in the upcoming elections, I want you to realize that figure and be back in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65978	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65979	This last sentence, these last words are not appropriate and are not in the jurisdiction of the judge, especially a member of the High Council of the judiciary. I don't know what that means, to whom you want it to be in parliament again, whether the DS, from the Progressive Party, but it's not good to engage in a political debate. It's true that I've known Mrs. Ivić a long time, just like she did me, like she said, and that's why I could talk. I ran and made sure it wasn't always personal. I was just talking about facts. It's true, Mrs. Ivic says she appreciates my legal calling. And I had a very high opinion of her as a judge and she knows it well. I also said in my debate and presented the fact that one of the six judges of the High Council of the Judiciary who did well when she voted on that the session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary should be recorded, and that means available to the public, not that it comes to the record through Rodoljub Šabić and through some of your members of the High Council of the judiciary who are still there, but they want to make it clear to the public that what is done in the High Council of the Judiciary is not good. So, all that is positive, we will always bring it out, and in this second part, I would still recommend that Mrs. Ivić not engage in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65980	Thank you. I'm finishing the search on the motion for a decision. The National Assembly will decide on a draft decision in the voting day. Based on article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 1400 hours. Thank you for your understanding and your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65981	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Before we move to the opening of the 2nd item of the agenda, according to Articles 90 and 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will continue to work after 18.00 hours, if this requires a pace and pace of debate that we will open in the second item of the agenda. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, with a correction. You've received a motion for a decision with an amendment that has been filed by the State's major prosecutor. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and that is: a parliamentary group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; a parliamentary group of SRS - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; a United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group of Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; a parliamentary group of SPS - 18 minutes; a parliamentary group of LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they haven't already done so, to report immediately. On the basis of Article 96(4), Rules of Procedure, applications for a word with the names of MPs who wish to participate in the search shall be received until the agenda is opened in principle. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are on this agenda: MP Djordje Milicevic, MP Aleksandar Martinovic - SRS. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to represent a group during the second item of the agenda of today's session, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 201, point 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a hearing on the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor with a correction. I ask, do the representatives of Prosecutor Majda Rakic and Zorica Stojsic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, want a word? If so, please report to the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65982	Dear People's MPs, the State's Chief Prosecutors is in line with the provisions of Articles 78 and 79. The public prosecutor's law has announced a choice for deputy public prosecutors in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 88/2011 and the daily list of "Politicals" since 24 November 2011. In accordance with Article 80 of the Treaty on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and Article 29(2) The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Council obtained data and opinions on the expertise, skills in the work and dignity of the candidates. Data and opinions were obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidates worked in the legal profession. In the light of the opinions obtained, the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors is, on the basis of Article 30. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, held a discussion with the candidates, after which she considered each individual application, taking into account all the documentation attached and collected, as well as the opinion given, on which the State's Chief Prosecutors were asked to submit a proposal for the selection of candidates to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and in agreement with Article 82. Public prosecutor's law. In view of the above, the State's Chief Prosecutors, following a review of the electoral actions carried out and the documents collected in the voting process, are in agreement with Articles 33 and 35. The Rules of Procedure have reached a decision on the submission of a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect a deputy public prosecutor on the basis of Article 82. Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and Article 34 The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, since those candidates met the conditions laid down in the highest degree by law and by the Rules of Procedure. According to the above, the State's chief prosecutor proposes the following candidates. As deputy public prosecutor at the First Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Djordjevic Vladimir, born 9.3.1976 in Belgrade. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2003, and passed the judicial exam on 23.4.2008. He worked as a lawyer intern in Belgrade. Since 2008, he has worked independently as a lawyer until 2010, when he begins work as senior adviser in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, as head of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. He speaks English and Italian. His work in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office was assessed as professional and responsible, showing a high level of professionality and ability. The second candidate, Markovic Miodrag, was born in 7.2.1977 in Belgrade. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2000. The judicial exam was passed in 2004. Since 2001, he has worked at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as a prosecutor's intern, and since 2004 as a prosecutor's assistant. He also worked as a prosecutor's assistant at the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Since 2010, he has been deployed to Belgrade's First General Public Prosecutor's Office as prosecutor's assistant, where his work has been assessed by the highest marks. He is currently employed at the Judicial Academy as a member of first-generation training, where his participation in training is particularly commended. He's very interested in training in the profession. He attended numerous seminars, trainings, which made him professional and qualified to serve as deputy public prosecutor. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office, candidate Mihajlovic Branislava, born in Vranj, is proposed in 1803.1975. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Pristina in 2000. The judicial exam was passed in 2003. After her graduation, she worked at the Municipality’s Public Prosecutor’s Office in Vranj until 2009, and has been employed at the Health Centre in Vranj since 2010, and is enrolled in the register of the Niš Bar and is engaged in law. She attended a large number of seminars, trained professionally and professionally. As deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac Ostojić Vesna, born 25.08.1979 in Kragujevac. The Faculty of Law in Kragujevac graduated in 2003, passed the judicial exam in 2006. She worked at the municipality court in Rekovac as an intern, and then as prosecutor's assistant at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Since 2006, it has been deployed to work at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and since 2010, it has been working as the secretary of the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac. During her work in the prosecutor's office, she attended several professional seminars, published papers professionally and qualityd all tasks. As deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad Rakic Miroslav, born 30.06.1976 in Novi Sad. Law school graduated in Novi Sad in 2002, passed the judicial exam in 2005. He worked as a lawyer from 2003, then as an intern at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad from 2003 to 2005. After that, as prosecutor's assistant, first at the district public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, i.e. the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad by 2011, after which it passes to the New Sad General Public Prosecutor's Office. He participated in several seminars in the area of criminal law, he wrote several papers. At the post of prosecutor's assistant, it has been assessed by the assessment – particularly the one that stands out. He has expressed expertise, analytical opinion, responsibility and willingness to adopt new knowledge. As deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, Simic-Pajic Milena, was born in Šapec on 11 December 1974. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1999, passed the judicial exam in 2004. The traineeship was held at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac from 2000 to 2005. From 2005 to 01.03.2007, she worked in the Municipal Court in Sapac as a judicial assistant. Since 2007, he has been working at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac as prosecutor's assistant. Since 2010, at the General Prosecutor's Office in Sapac as a prosecutor's assistant. As a prosecutor's assistant, she professionally worked on the subject, trained and perfected her knowledge. Her work so far has been evaluated by the highest grades. Krastević Bojan was born 09.04.1979 in Šapec. The Faculty of Law graduated in Belgrade in 2004. The judicial exam passed 02.04.2008. He volunteered at the County Court in Sapac in 2004, after which he worked as an intern at the Municipality Court in Sapac, after which he had been employed in the RZO where he worked since 2011, when he founded a working relationship at the basic court in Sapac as a judicial assistant. In the work and engagement so far, it shows good results, high degree of responsibility and ability to perform complex tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65983	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Do I ask if the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, wants the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia has been under the custody of, politically and legally, the EU and the United States since 2000, and this has been particularly evident since 2008, when it comes to reforming the Serbian judiciary. In order to avoid any dilemma, I, as representatives of the state council of prosecutors, will read you a document from which you will be made fully clear, both to you and to the citizens of Serbia, which are political forces that create the justice system in the Republic of Serbia. So this is the European Parliament's document. On 12 January 2012, Strasbourg, European Parliament, plenary session, document number B7-000/2012, Proposer of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This document has a total of 34 points. The tenth, 11th and 34th points are particularly interesting. Point 10 states: "It is noted that the judicial and prosecutorial reform process has been done to increase efficiency and to reduce the number of unsolved cases. It is noted that further efforts need to be made to ensure independence and professionalism in these two sectors, concerns are voiced over the lacks in appeal processes initiated by unselected judges and prosecutors, including violations of procedures and standards. It is called for the process to be completed in a transparent manner and without any external pressure on the High Council of the judiciary. "According to paragraph 11: "A serious concern is expressed over the reuse of Article 359 of the Criminal Code on the Abuse of Official Position, it calls on all competent authorities to initiate the procedure to amend the criminal law, to comply with European standards and to immediately end charges of abuse of the official position which undermine trust in the rule of law in the state. "The 34th point is particularly scandalous and says: "The President of the European Parliament will forward this resolution to the council, the commission, as well as the Serbian Government and the National Assembly. "So, in order to avoid any confusion, all this is happening, all this political experiment called judicial reform is designed outside the Republic of Serbia, and what is happening these days, related to correcting the reform of the judiciary, is happening under the pressure of the EU, which I have witnessed, among other things, and this document that I have just read. Not only is the judiciary created in the Republic of Serbia under instructions from Brussels and Washington, laws are written in the Republic of Serbia according to EU and US instructions. I would like to remind these distinguished ladies of the State Council of Prosecutors that the Republic of Serbia is probably the only country in Europe that so often changes the area of criminal material law and criminal procedural law. I doubt anyone serious in Serbia knows which criminal code applies and which criminal code applies. Since 2000, these laws have changed so often, that Serbia is probably a European record player, perhaps globally. If I learned anything at law school, it is that the legislative reform of criminal law is being entered patiently, once all the facts relating to the reform of this judiciary have been examined in detail, after the professional public has been consulted. So very careful and very rare. In Serbia, a number of times each year, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and as you can see, crimes in the Republic of Serbia are abolished not because Parliament wants to, not because the government wants to, but because someone designed it in the EU. However, perhaps someone from the EU is trying to save people who are now leading Serbia, to end the crime of abuse of their official position, that tomorrow many who should be responsible for this crime should not be held liable. What nonsens was made in this judicial reform? For example, I will remind you of Judge Blago Jaksic, when the man was elected a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, then as today, a successful lawyer, a good student, a great work experience, in 2006, was named the best Judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, after the BIA, as we learned from the media, informed the authorities that the man allegedly affected the counterfeiting of some of the municipal court contracts in Kosovo Mitrovica in 2000, he was put under arrest and that detention took five months. We still don't know if that man is guilty or not. He's formally a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. He's in custody. He was once claimed by his colleagues that he was the best possible member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Now everyone in this man washes their hands. Otherwise, he's charged with, if I'm not mistaken, the crime of organized crime. This crime in 2000 did not exist in our Criminal Code. What is also interesting, when it comes to the state prosecutor's office, or prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, what I also learned as a law school student, it is that the prosecution reacts when it reaches the prosecutor's office's voice that a criminal act has been committed. Therefore, even in a formal sense it is not necessary to file criminal charges. It is, therefore, enough for the public prosecutor to find out in any way that there has been a criminal offence and he is obliged to react. I will remind you of several cases of very serious crimes where public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia did not respond, and they were obliged to react. First of all, prosecutors were obliged to react to different statements by people leading the Republic of Serbia and individual party heads in Serbia, related to KIM's fate. I do not need to remind you that the President of the Republic has repeatedly expressed views on how to resolve the KIM issue, which was directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The very statement by senior state officials repeated many times in the domestic, in the Republic of Serbia, abroad, in front of domestic and foreign public, that the alleged Eulexa mission should be status neutral, that the solution should be status neutral. I'm sorry, it's the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to the SRS that KIM status is resolved by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that KIM, as well as the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. How, then, can any of the state officials say – we advocate that the international mission be status neutral? It cannot be statusally neutral because the status issue is resolved by the Constitution of Serbia and Resolution 1244. Then you had statements that Serbia and KIM's relations were to be arranged on the principle of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic People's Republic of Germany, on the principles that existed until 1990 when the two Germanys were united. Then you had a statement by Boris Tadic that double sovereignty should be established on KIM, Serbian and Albanian. Then you finally came up with some famous four-point plan, which the president of the Republic presented to representative Hillary Clinton, US Secretary of State, and then she phoned Boris Tadic and reportedly said the United States would take the plan seriously into consideration at four points. The four-point plan has nothing to do with the Serbian Constitution and Resolution 1244. The state prosecutor's office did not declare this, and it is vital national goods, such as freedom, state sovereignty and territorial integrity. Furthermore, the State Prosecutor's Office has been silent for two years on a brutal lie given by Tomislav Nikolic, which is said to have been ordered by Vojislav Seselj of The Hague tribunal by the same Tomislav Nikolic to be liquidated through one of the members of the Zemun clan, Milos Simovic. Why isn't the D.A. responding? Who wants to kill Tomislav Nikolic? It has been proven that man has lied, as many times before. The D.A.'s office is silent. How is that possible? Yesterday, a case occurred that allegedly two members of the Zemun clan wanted to escape from a special prison in Belgrade. One of them is Zeljko Milovanovic, who was sentenced to 40 years in Croatia for killing Ivo Puhanic. Otherwise, he is a friend of Joce Amsterdam, also accused of killing Ivo Puhanic and Nika Franic in Zagreb. For this same Jocu Amsterdam, you had a statement from your former colleague Vladimir Cvian, that he is not really a mobster, but a successful businessman who will tomorrow, if ordered by the state, build bridges around Belgrade and Serbia. What are the links and did the State's major prosecutor come up with the idea of investigating the ties between Tomislav Nikolic, Joce Amsterdam, Milos Simovic, the killings in Zagreb, the murder of Zoran Djindjic? So does this have anything to do with each other? How come someone who's accused of murder isn't actually a criminal and a mobster, but a successful businessman? The D.A.'s office doesn't say anything about that. Furthermore, I don't know if you've been informed that a few days ago the Republic Property Directorate agreed that certain properties in Novi Sad would become the property of the AP Vojvodina. Among other things, there is a courthouse in Novi Sad located on Sutjeska Street. There is also the building of the government of the AP Vojvodina, located on the Boulevard of Michael Pupin. Among other things, there is also the Serbian Academy of Sciences in Novi Sad, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, in these real estates. What's coming out of this? That granting consent to this now become a duchy autonomy is completely contrary to the applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia and it is also a criminal act. But what's behind all this? Someone wants to say, yes, it has been alleged duchy property before, and then the evil and corrupt state of Serbia took it for itself, and now we return it to whoever it always belonged to. It's not like that. So, this building where the government of the AP Vojvodina is now located, the Novosadjani know that, as well as Mrs Gordana Komic, is called the Banovina Colloquial Language, the Banovina Building. Why? Because there used to be a headquarters in the Danube Banovina before World War II, and that Danube ban was stretching from Novi Sad to Kragujevac. This Danube bank had nothing to do with the AP Vojvodina and some government of the AP Vojvodina. Now how is this supposed to be the Duke's property all of a sudden? What is behind the fact that the Republic Property Directorate has agreed that the New Sad court building will also become a Vojvodina property? The demands of Nenad Chanka and various other autonomous forces in Vojvodina are hidden, that Vojvodina should be given judicial authority among other things. Now we've given you the building, and soon we'll give you formal authority. What is behind the fact that the state of Serbia's property was taken over by a building located in the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts in Novi Sad? There is what we have already seen in Croatia, what we have already seen in Montenegro and what is now happening to our eyes in Vojvodina. Before each secession and before any conflict, when it comes to the collapse of state unity, then it resorts to the formation of some phantom Academy of Science and Art. First in Zagreb, the Yugoslav Academy...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65985	People's MP, I ask you to put the argument in any way into contact with any of the proposed candidates within the agenda section on the election of deputy public prosecutors, with any one of them. You haven't touched the agenda in a single word for fourteen minutes. I listen very carefully to you, expecting you to bring anything about the subject of the agenda, so I ask that the remaining time be in the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your duty is to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65986	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. So, what is behind this intention to carry out the division of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in Novi Sad and to make use of the property...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65987	People's messenger, I did not remind you of the decree of the Rules of Procedure that you do not respect it, but to remind you that you respect it, for I am bound to give you a reminder. So please, on the subject of the agenda, bring any of the deputies into contact with your argument and show that we together respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65988	That's right, Mrs. Comic, the election of candidates for deputy public prosecutors is on the agenda. So these people are elected deputy public prosecutors. I am talking about recorded problems and failures in the work of a public prosecutor's apparatus in the Republic of Serbia. All this stuff I'm saying and how it has to do with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65989	People's MP, if it had anything to do with this, I wouldn't interrupt. So, 14 minutes you've been talking off the subject of the agenda. The item of the agenda is the choice of deputy public prosecutors and I ask you to link it to any of the candidates that are our subject of the agenda, if you have also disturbed it from your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65990	Your intention is obvious. So, you were now expecting the SRS MPs to drop artillery fire... (President: National MP, I expect the MPs of the SRS to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I see no reason not to do so within the next six minutes, as far as is available to you. Mrs. Comić, I'm doing my best, but you keep interrupting me. So, I'd be happy to have a relationship with each other only if I had a chance to talk on a continuous basis. It's really hard for me to talk every five seconds. So, you probably expected the SRS MPs now, when I say you, I don't mean you personally, but probably the ruling coalition, to drop artillery fire on these candidates for deputy public prosecutors. We don't need to do that. Most of them's résumés show that they are really, above all young people, I don't believe that any of them have been able to compromise a lot on either political or professional terms, and as a man, I want to believe that all these people deserve to be deputy public prosecutors. It would be very ugly to comment on anything in their professional and personal life when I don't have any arguments against any of these people who would possibly disqualify him from being deputy public prosecutors. But this isn't about the adpersonal discussion, this is about how all these people will one day probably come into office as deputy public prosecutors in one system, where the public prosecutor's office as a state authority doesn't work. So now, all these candidates, I just want to draw attention to the fact that they're going to be faced with problems tomorrow when they're elected deputy public prosecutors, to tell them what's waiting for them, and that those who have proposed them to these responsible state functions and haven't told them all the facts, haven't told them all these things that are happening in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, haven't ended up...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65991	National MP, you are now in violation of the Rules of Procedure, which prohibit you from providing information relating to other persons. If you are aware that during the application procedure or in communication with the candidates or with the competent state authority there has been an illegal procedure, you are obliged to share it with us. You said that the candidates were not informed about what was ahead of them, so I ask you to give information about how you know that the candidates are not informed, or that I do, remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since you do not seem to be informed which members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly oblige you to be content or presentations that you will share at the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65992	It's been a very long show for you, Mrs. Komic. I haven't been able to remember everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65993	That's what I believe. I now warn you, and this is a warning against a warning, and I ask you to stop mocking the MPs, the State Council of Prosecutors, candidates who are the subject of agenda and procedure in the National Assembly, since this is no longer an unknown provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly but a direct mockery of the obligations to which we are all bound by members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to say – that we are talking about the agenda and respecting other people's privacy. I am asking your fellow Members of Parliament not to earn, which is the same violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will remind you of the number, if necessary, of the position which obliges me to make such remarks, no matter how embarrassing it may be to me than you who consider it to be a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Entertainment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65994	So, Mrs. Comic, I think absolutely anyone's privacy with this exhibit I haven't violated. I absolutely have no intention of making fun of anything and of exposing anyone to a rose. I'm talking about facts. The fact that you don't like those facts is your problem. What I was about to say, if I had so much understanding from Mrs. Komic, is the fact that what is happening now in Vojvodina has actually been seen in Croatia and Montenegro. So whenever there's a field to be prepared...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65995	People's MP, do you really think that you have the right to claim this right from the mandate of the MP, from a personal, ethical or political position to mock every provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, believing that this is not a situation in which I will express the measures of caution?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65996	What is mockery, Mrs. Comic, is the fact that you will delegate the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts department in Novi Sad...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65997	People's MP, we have the next election now, or I'll thank you, since it's 21 minutes and 34 minutes or we'll have two more minutes where I'll be forced to give you the warning measures. It's up to you and me to make a choice. My choice is to thank you and you can go ahead and share with us what your choice is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65998	My choice is to promote the policy of the SRS here and warn the citizens of Serbia about the dangers of what is happening today on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, if the price of this political action is that you will give me a warning, I have no problem. So it's not the first and probably not the last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u65999	Thank you. And I'm sorry that in such an obvious way, we are mixing the right to a political stance and a commitment to respect for the procedure. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? I ask MPs, members of the SRS parliamentary group to, or to, immediately remind themselves of what conduct is required during the session of the National Assembly, or to put me in any way to know why they want to interfere with the work of the National Assembly session, since it will not be allowed. National MP Boris Aleksic throws out the bench. I ask you to behave yourself, if you do not want the warning measures, which I personally believe was not necessary for any given, in this term, but your insistence to show that you are not subject to the rules that apply to all others is unacceptable. National MP Boris Aleksic throws it once more. Now you have a warning to give the warning measure. The order is good when it's the same for everyone. Thank you. Since no more than the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups appear in a word, we are going to the debate, and in the order of the MPs and the application for a word in search of the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. I am informing the National Assembly that the ZES parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group have submitted lists of MPs who want to take part in the search for a proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. The First Reported Messenger of the People, the Prophet Srdjan Milivojevic, followed by the Prophet Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66000	Ladies and gentlemen, probably the State's Major Prosecutors had a little less trouble with this proposal than the High Council of the Judiciary, because you still don't have in the D.A.'s office, at least not for the public, those problems the High Council has, we still don't know that someone from the State's Chief Prosecutors has been arrested, we still don't know that someone in the conflict of interest, so we still don't know that someone resigned, so it's expected you to be a little more relaxed on this proposal, because maybe you don't have to deal with yourself, as is the case with your colleagues from the High Council of Justice. Of course, when it comes to this proposal, it is impossible to avoid being distracted by the work of the High Council, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors and, of course, the work of public prosecutors and their deputies in Serbia, as part of the so-called. The reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, for which we from the SRS have since the very beginning since you started to reform, we argue that this is the wrong way, and now that this reform is in some final phase, then we can be absolutely justified in telling you and informing the public of Serbia, that what you called reform is actually the failure of the judiciary. Of course, this also applies to the State’s major prosecutors and MPs of the congregation’s majority. I ask all MPs of the assembly majority to listen carefully to us from the SRS. So, the question that should be asked about this proposal and what is here, we from the SRS are asking what Mrs. Rakic is, since you are authorized to speak here on behalf of the State Council of Prosecutors, has changed in the Prosecutor's Office in Šapac, Kragujevac, Vranja, for example, for these two years since you chose, proposed, and the assembly majority here elected public prosecutors and their deputies. As far as we know from the census, unfortunately, mainly thanks to the devastating dossage policy in Serbia, the number of people in Serbia has been reduced. Then how come after two years you realized you needed more prosecutors than you chose back then? I'm saying this because at the time, we were distracting you, that your network of courts and prosecutors was not good, that you were neglecting the parts of Serbia that people knew existed, that they were living, because they had courts, prosecutors, prosecutors, courts for violations. You didn't listen to us. You've abolished everything in those smaller municipalities. That's where the only schools still work. The question is, is there a school in every municipality? The middle definitely not, I guess. So where's the progress, where's the progress? You didn't listen to us, and now you really need to listen to us. We are now just confirming what we have spoken for several years since Snezana Malovic assured us that this reform is the best in the world. When it comes to the prosecution, it ends with a prosecutor's investigation. Only here will you see how right we were in the SRS when we told you not to change that system in Serbia, that prosecutors are absolutely under the hands of the executive and president of the state. When you chose in that first round, the largest number of prosecutors and their deputies, we drew attention to the public secret that, as with the re-election of judges, as well as to the re-election of prosecutors, that the key role played by the BIA, that they collected information about those you should choose and those you should not re-elected. Ma'am, since you're the prosecutor, this is the question that you on behalf of the State Council should answer to the MPs. If it was claimed in public, and it is, that some prosecutors were not re-elected, or deputies, when I say prosecutors are meant to talk about deputies, because they weren't worthy, because they didn't have good results, because they might have been involved in some criminal act, etc. What's been done for these three years when it comes to people like that? If someone is not worthy of public service - prosecution functions then you have to know why, not because he doesn't have a nice haircut. You know what dignity means and otherwise someone is not worthy of it. Did this unworthy person have any responsibility? What about the charges he filed? What about the verdicts made on charges like that? Do you understand how complex this is and how many questions do you owe the public an answer? The easiest thing is, you suggest, you make a deal with the congregation majority, actually, you deal with someone else that you're going to propose, this is where you vote, and thank you, goodbye. It's not like that. The Serbian Radical Party is asking you for quality answers and asking you for the right answers with arguments. You can't fool us, like you can't fool the citizens of Serbia. You can talk as much as you want your judicial reform to work, you can argue as much as you want the network to be the best in the world. Go to Black Trav, go to Ruma, go to Surdulica, go to Ub, go to Leposavic, go to all those places in Serbia, ask the people if they are happy and happy because they cannot do the basic work related to the public prosecutor or to the court in their place, ask the lawyers from these places, ask the experts from these places, ask the witnesses. A man sues or is sad, so he'll sacrifice himself, he'll travel from Tutina to Novi Pazar. How he's gonna get a witness to go with him. Of course, you don't care, you didn't take care of it then, you don't run it now. You're trapped in some of your shells. You guys are doing so many important jobs there, and what's going on in the state of Serbia doesn't interest you, and you don't want to know. It would be good, especially if you're prosecutors. A colleague Martinovic has given you great attention, and I suppose you should know that the prosecutor, among other things, must follow the work of parliament. First of all, we in the U.S.R. are saying the argument and what is really true, so that you can examine some of it. We called Zagorka Dolovac personally, to see what she did when it came to Luka Belgrade or her criminally sold, or donated plot for the shopping center of Usce. What did she do? Can she say she didn't hear that? Can he say there's no criminal record we filed, and we filed it? Now the question is, these people you're proposing here, are they already briefings? Whether they will continue as you or will be, as counterpart Martinovic noted, young people are, you can see from this here what it says that they are about in a regular or slightly higher degree than that of law school. It's supposed to be some kind of condition that they can work well. The question is, what kind of whirlwind do they fall into? Will you allow them to work well or will they have to resign like that member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary we spoke of in the first part of the debate? Where else it has failed along with all these examples set by counterpart Martinovic, so he pissed off Mrs. Comic, I guess the woman knows the presidency today, so probably never again, so let's make a warning. This is the topic, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I hope that you will have a little more understanding, which requires a broad approach, because we will not only ask – where is this candidate Djordjevic Vladimir, where he worked in the meantime, because he was left out here to say - he finished Law School in 2003, 1976 was born, it was excellent, but passed a judicial exam in 2008 and worked as an intern, since 2008 he worked independently as a lawyer. Does he have any work experience? There may be, but it doesn't say here. It took someone a little more literate to write this down or maybe it doesn't. Maybe it's really something that's a fact, then this would be difficult to deal with. The lady who was proposed to the public prosecutor's office in Vranj. She was employed in 2010 at the Health Center. In the public prosecutor's office in Vranj, she worked until 2009. What happened in the meantime, why did she stop working in the Vranj DA's office? Was she unreelected, was she in other jobs, why was she out of work in the meantime, and was the experience she had gained at Vranja Health Center enough to be the deputy public prosecutor? So these are just questions we expect you to answer. You formed the Judicial Academy, sent some young people there to finish that judicial academy. Is it possible that you didn't have enough candidates among them to put them on these functions now, but you were retrieving from the health center or health insurance office in Šapec, etc. It's not good in principle, but we expect you to respond in any particular case to these remarks. You have read here what we have in mind that data and opinions have been obtained from both the authorities and the organizations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession. Is this one from the Health Center, who's qualified there to assess the work of this lawyer who's probably the only lawyer at the Health Center and to confirm to you that he's a great choice for a deputy public prosecutor? It may be, but we're asking you to answer that question. So we're not talking about these names with the intention of disqualifying them, we're just looking for answers to all these questions, and you're going to convince us, and then we're going to have an opinion on whether these proposals are good or not. Did anyone at the Public Prosecutor's Office or the State Council of Prosecutors, at least once with coffee, Mrs Rakic, discuss with colleagues human rights violations of Vojislav Seselj, the attempted murder of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague? Has it occurred to you that you, from your functions, are animated by the competent authorities to threaten them to take care of their citizen, Vojislav Seselj, who has been on justice for nine years in The Hague? You're in business, you're prosecutors. Is it imaginable to you as a prosecutor to have someone in custody for nine years and not have any decision for nine years, and in the meantime they're trying every way they can kill him, because he brought them to the wall and before the final act, where they can't get away with it anymore? Did you ask Bruno Vekaric and Vukčević, who are dealing with war crimes here, did it occur to them, since they were with Brammertz not to say peoplely in what kind of relations, did they have any idea to ask him, did the thing where they were racing for knees under the table at least be able to use that intimacy and intimacy to say – hey, man, Brammertz, Vojislav Seselj is nine years without a decision, it's an illegal procedure? This is a political case against the man who opposed the DOS in 2000 and who still opposes it today behind the UN tribunal's bars? But you're not protecting justice, you're protecting the regime, and it's a big mistake, dear lady. You have to rise above it and you have to show that you are prosecutors who care that everyone who has committed a crime responds and that you do everything you can to make it so. Is it possible, I also asked in the morning part of the representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, and now you, as prosecutors, did not have your ears closed by the members of the State Council of Prosecutors in Borko Stefanovic's statement that in possible disputes when it comes to the KIM disaster in the state of Serbia, that the authority in these disputes will be the Supreme Court of the so-called. Kosovo countries? Do you think that man can stay free when he says that? I'm a lawyer, and I'm saying he can't. It is the most brutal violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. How many times has the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia broken Boris Tadic? Have you ever reacted? As a prosecutor and as a prosecutor, you must not have sacred cows, for you all must be the same. You can't see the functions, you just have to see the work, and after the part, you can see the name and the last name, but that's not how you do it. Unfortunately, if you did that, you probably wouldn't be in those places. You can personally feel hurt by our discussions, but believe that we have a million proofs that we're right. We can prove any sentence we have. Did you follow, and you have to follow the media, one television with a national frequency brought by a Vesna Pusic, minister of Ustasha-Croatian regime, who says that when she passes through Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66001	I'm going to ask you to use your chosen words to talk about the faces you mention and still stick to the agenda, to get in touch. I understand the need to say everything you say, but please bring in everything you say in connection with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66002	At first, I said that I would say all this and say that I would tell these candidates to see if they were willing to work this way so that they might have our support as well. If they're not ready to do what the law and the Constitution ask them to do, then they can't have the support of the SRS. How else do we explain to them what problems await if we don't tell them these specific things? Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't mind if you consider the Croatian government democratic, national, I don't know, whatever, but you can't forbid us to present our court of honor. For us, all the regimes in Croatia have been since this so-called The new Croatian state to date is the Ustasha regimes, primarily because of the fact that they do not recognise that Republika Srpska is currently a occupied state and that is something that is our political stance. If we make a mistake, the citizens of Serbia will tell us soon when you call the elections. Don't defend us from the citizens of Serbia, please. We will certainly not harm your reputation, I don't mean you personally, with those there, as you mean democratic, we mean Ustasha regime. You have your communication, but let me say it. The Vesna Pusic said she was, as she said, shocked when she passed through Belgrade and saw posters with Seselj's character and billboard with Seselj's character. Is that why you called her in Serbia? Is that why you called her to Serbia, to tell you to cry with Seselj's character shouldn't be in Belgrade and not to be in Serbia? My dears, there will be more and more posters every day, like every day more and more SRS voters, and you're obviously afraid of these choices. We Serbian radicals are not afraid of them. Madams from the D.A.'s Office, be sure that when we from the SRS are in power in Serbia you won't have to worry about being called by the president's office or someone from the government, we will allow you to work in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, to be independent and independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66003	According to Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66004	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I believe that just now that you have misused the law of Rule 27 and interrupted your colleague Radet at the same time, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, she managed to end it because she is a smart woman and a rhetorical woman and how she is skilled in communicating with citizens because, above all, every SRS MP addresses them, but dignity has been violated because she is the present lady, who is the prosecutor and representative of the Prosecutor's Office in Serbia, made it clear that because of such a statement by Ustasha Minister Vesna Pusic, the state should react. Imagine you, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, that you went to Zagreb and said anything against Glavas, Gotovina or any Ustasha criminal. Unlike them, Professor Vojislav Seselj is a hero of the Serb people. The Hague casamat failed in nine years of his murmuring there and trying to kill him, to prove that he committed any war crimes, even in an attempt, and at the very beginning to attach some kind of hate speech to him, fell to the first witness. Now you as the president of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, where the main opposition political party, whose list holder, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is sitting in a situation where Mrs Radeta tells that those you recognize, who occupied Serbian countries and killed a criminal genocide, committed over the Serb people, react in Serbia and thus mention the name of today's greatest Serbian hero. I don't think you should do that, and none of the representatives of the government do. If you haven't done anything in nine years to inform anyone or to rebel anywhere because Professor Vojislav Seselj is incarcerated, it's on your honor. You saw yesterday that he didn't need that help, he won the UN tribunal and our party will hold the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66005	Time. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to Mrs Pusic, it is a person everyone would like to represent his country's diplomacy. Please, let me not have to agree with you in everything and have my own attitude. So, surely everything you said should be condemned both by crime and mass murder, and all forms of aggression, Mrs Pusic certainly does in her own works and words. I have a need, and she's been in parliamentary benches for a long time, and I really need to protect her personality and her function from the position of the chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66006	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Rakic, I have listened very carefully to this afternoon's debate by my colleagues from the opposition and today during the afternoon. There are two points on the agenda - a proposal on the election of the High Council of Judicial Judges and now in the afternoon, when we have a proposal to elect the deputy public prosecutors who filed the State's major prosecutors. I can tell you that really carefully listening to this debate I have heard many arguments that are primarily political disqualification of everything that has been done in judicial reform, and only then arguments that have a foothold in facts and a foothold in real condition. When we took responsibility to manage this country, and not when we came to power, some say, we made a few promises, when it comes to the judiciary, and above all there was a promise that we would do such a necessary reform of the judicial system. Now some who earn, who say the judicial reform has ruined Serbia's judiciary, must give clear arguments as they see it. Because when we look at everything we've had, when we take responsibility to run this country and what we have today, I have to deny them with a few arguments. First, BIA really played a key role, but not in the choice of judges' prosecutors, but in the arrest of Radovan Karadzic or Dr Dabic. I see unsatisfactory patients still earning. BIA played a key role in the arrest of Ratko Mladic, in the arrest of Goran Hadzic, in breaking the Saric clan, but the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, thanks to the majority's MPs, and I underline and repeat to Serbian citizens, some say it is not important, some say it is important, I believe it is essential, MPs of this ruling majority, and to this I am very proud, passed a law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime. And that's where it really turned out to be given a decisive blow to organized, but also to any other crime. No one can enjoy the fruits of their criminal activities anymore, but what has been illegally acquired, and some have laughed at me when I said that beside many houses, the estates will be located where they will write – returned to the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, of which they have been kidnapped. Many laughed at me when we passed that law and explained that it would happen. Today, when we look at how much money the Republic of Serbia's budget is filled with, it's clear that there was no room for laughter, but when we see despair in those who have calculated that they can finance certain activities of that money, today when we see their anger and anger, we understand today why they didn't vote for that law back then. The question is, why do we choose these assistant prosecutors today? Now some say – wait, has the population increased in these places, not decreased? So the argument -- since the DS took responsibility to manage this country, is reportedly not knowing how much the population has reduced. The reduction in population in Serbia has been a trend since 1990. That year we had indeed years of prosperity thanks to Anti Markovic, when the German mark was worth as much as it was worth and when the dinar was a converting currency and when indeed the citizens of Serbia reached a certain standard. Well, despite that great standard we had back then, we recorded a population reduction as early as the following year on the list in 1991. The fact is that there is a reduction in the population today, but not by losing heads in wars that we come out of as winners, but without territories. The fact is that today we still have this negative trend faced by many countries in the world. Unfortunately, in Serbia it is quite pronounced. But why use this argument when it comes to selecting these prosecutors and what is the reason, is it really a promise or a reduction of the number of residents of an effective judiciary, the possibility that this prosecutorial function is done in an appropriate and effective way or is it about some other arguments? I don't think we have an argument here that there's been an increase in the population and we haven't done it right. Simply, life and practice impose certain solutions and say best whether something is done right and where it should be strengthened, where it should not be strengthened. There's no problem in saying: it's good, at first we gave one particular quota, now we increase it, so that the judiciary makes it more effective. What's this about small places? Such that I know what the situation was like in small towns in Serbia. We had a situation where the husband is a judge, the wife's prosecutor, the brother-in-law works with the police, the son works as a lawyer, and the godfather as an expert, the place has 20,000 inhabitants, so even if your mother's son gets a litigation if he doesn't represent you. There are many reasons to do a serious analysis of everything that has been done, but again, Madam President, when we end our mandate, we will be proud not of the number of laws we have passed, but of the reforms we have implemented in this country and we will have no reason to be ashamed of any law that we have passed, any resolutions, any letters from the record of all these sessions, because everything we have done, we have done with honor, responsibly, honestly, wanting to modernise this country, but also to get an effective judiciary where the law will not be passed on the basis of the material power of the client, nor, as at the time of Caligula, when it takes the papers and put one side in the right hand, in the left hand and then play the terraces and tas, decides who is right. This is where court proceedings are conducted by the power of arguments, by the power of truth, and that's the fact. There's always dissatisfaction. As soon as a man comes to court, he's automatically dissatisfied, as soon as he's in a position to appear before the court, of course he's not happy. And they will always have, because of the legacy we have, the reserves, and there will always be people who will have suspicion and skepticism whether it's just as determined as it suits. There will always be people who are dissatisfied with the length of court proceedings, there will always be people who are dissatisfied with the way it was ruled, but generally observed, we have made the judiciary much more effective, and especially with the laws we have passed, we have set one decisive blow to the fight against organised crime. We put a real blow to organized crime the way it was supposed to, and we demonstrated the power and power of the rule of law. That's not what I'm saying, it says full Central Prison, from which, unfortunately, it's not that easy to escape. Because, as you've seen, some are trying to escape, but there are security and gendarmes and everything that might have seemed like a dramatic day yesterday, today looks like a case that's been resolved and, of course, will be determined through a police investigation who helped these people escape, but I'm saying, a failed attempt to escape. I'll say something about candidates who are proposed. It is not true that the Serbian Parliament is a flow water heater where all solutions are served and imposed on us. We as the ruling majority and as MPs, but as individuals, we always have the opportunity to challenge certain candidates. We also have the opportunity to vote for certain candidates. Of course, I will always take advantage of my parliamentary opportunity to give my opinion on the list of these candidates you have proposed. Of course, I see it's about young people, I see it's about people who gave their biographies. I see it's about people who have certain ambitions, desires, who have confirmed themselves by doing a job as advisers or as head of office, but because of the desire that in the next few, perhaps 24 hours, I should inform myself more about whether these people are politically engaged, I will use my own parliamentary capacity and challenge the appointment of two candidates. It is about Simic-Pajic Milena and I want to get additional information in the coming hours - whether it is a politically engaged person or not, whether he has a political engagement in a particular political party and about Markovic Miodrag, a member of the Judiciary Academy, I am also looking for. That doesn't mean we'll vote against, for, one way or another. I'm only disputed right now, to put this on a special vote, to see if it's politically engaged people and politically engaged persons. If there's no political engagement, there's no problem in getting these people elected. On the other hand, I want additional information on some other candidates. I wanted that other information, and I got that additional information before this session started. So, in this context, I say, I challenge the election of Simic Pajic Milena and Mr Markovic Miodrag, because I want further information in the coming hours whether it is politically engaged persons or not. Nice to meet you, I want to tell you that when we took the responsibility to deal with justice reform, we were aware of the risk we are taking. In this country when it comes to justice, problems have been pushed under the carpet for years. No one wanted to do painful things, no one wanted to do things that weren't very popular. There were politicians who wanted to always be demagogues, to always find reasons for hard jobs, unpleasant jobs, to shift to the burden of responsible people, and to always point their fingers at them and say, "Oh, what did you do, but never showed willingness and responsibility to accept the challenges, to accept the risks of these challenges, to implement some measures that may not be popular." We are not concerned with populist policy, we are dealing with a policy aimed at modernising this country, implementing reforms. We really don't deal with politics that says we're infallible and that everything we do is doing the best we can. Often, our solutions, unfortunately, are the only ones that are not very popular. When you're forced to accept it, it's the only possible solution, sometimes it's not very popular, but it's good for us and for the citizens of this country, because one minute it has to roll up the sleeves and do the job. I'm saying, not because of our own popularity, not because we're fighting for power, but because we want to leave in all the future congregation meetings the possibility of dealing with some other life issues, and once and for all, we start sorting out the house from the ground up. The independent judiciary, the institutions of that independent judiciary, are certainly one of the democratic foundations of this state. Our job is to protect these foundations, strengthen, strengthen them, build them together. Not just us from the ruling majority, it's business and opposition. Whether the opposition will work with us or not, they can show off. If we want a healthy house on a healthy basis, then it's time to make these foundations the best possible way. That best possible way is often the only way. I am absolutely confident, Madam President, that at the end of our term, we will have a solid foundation for our common house called Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66007	Thank you. I give my word to MP Boris Aleksic. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66008	Thank you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here's what DS-member syndrome is, he contests someone's choice. A man like a despot, like he came from Egypt, probably imagines to be Pharaoh. Maybe we can raise his pyramid. He is now getting up and contesting someone's appointment and saying – I'm looking for information... (President: Please take care of each other's dignity. Yes, this is very serious and very corrupt on his part... (President): Okay, but I'm really asking you to... He's looking for information in the next hours. As far as KIM's concerned, the government won't answer for seven months. He will not respond to the interpretation, will not answer a parliamentary question about The Hague tribunal, the government of the Republic of Serbia for three months, and he is looking for information in the coming hours. Ask your friend Vukadinovic, who hangs out with Tomislav Nikolic, if that's what you're interested in, and you probably asked him before, since you're connected to the BIA. (President: colleague Alexic, I can understand what names and names you mention, probably the closeness of the reason, but don't speak to the MPs that way. Please don't put me in a position to react that I don't really like. Do not speak to a fellow MP, return to the topic and address... Do you know what kind of closeness that is, just to tell you? Okay, there's no problem. I'm moving on. So, closeness as a lawyer chasing a criminal. As for the prosecution and the arrests of Mladic, Karadzic and others, Saric was released. Saric was tipped off and one of the biggest drug dealers in the Balkans fled. Still the heroin and cocaine quota is the cheapest in Serbia. Half the quotars are 400 dinars and children in Belgrade can do drugs thanks to authorities and DS, can buy drugs on the streets, cocaine and heroin. You didn't stop anything. You let Sharic escape. Yes, you have extradited Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic and other Serbian heroes and are fighting Vojislav Seselj, working to get him killed in The Hague tribunal. Had these people not been there, he would not have had Boris Tadic to receive the award of Republika Srpska, given to him by Dodik, because there would be no Republika Srpska. Had it not been for Seselj, if it hadn't been for Mladic, there would have been no Republika Srpska if it hadn't been for Karadzic and other Serbian heroes. And then it was killed for the homeland, as it was killed in World War I, as it died in World War II, as it was in the Balkan wars, in the Serb-Turkish wars, in the riots, in the uprisings, it was the history of Serbia. Our most famous ancestors fought for the homeland, both men and women. And Milunka Savic went where some men couldn't go. She wasn't afraid to drop a bomb and shoot the enemy. So the tycoons and the tycoons who came in later threw her to clean the toilets after World War I. So your lenders and tycoons, which you remind yourself of, killed Archibald Rice, who died after a debate with such a liver. When it comes to your proposal, he's very interesting, but we need to say a few words about the public prosecutor's law itself, here's why. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Office in Article 2 states that the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal offences and other crimes and takes measures to protect constitutionality and legality. The question arises – whether the people you have proposed will have the opportunity to be within a state body that is independent or will be in a state body that depends on the will of some other people, which depends on the will of parties and officials who are in power. We have many reasons to suspect that the prosecution is controlled by DS representatives and the Boris Tadic regime, as well as the entire judiciary, but that they are only an extended hand of people who occupied Serbia on October 5th, i.e. British and American intelligence. Here's the thing. We have asked the public prosecutor's office several times – which is why she did not initiate criminal proceedings against Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Bogdanovic and other persons who committed a criminal offence under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, endangering the territorial continent – Article 307, where the punishable and preparatory actions that are explained in Article 320. We have received an answer in three sentences, which does not answer our parliamentary question, but gives the answer that the Serbians with KiM have been rejected. This is the response from 12 January 2012, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, Gordana Janicjevic. Just two three sentences, no explanation whatsoever. How is that possible? How is it possible when it clearly stands in the International Public Law textbook what is the practical recognition of a territory or state, and what is "de jure". It's up to the details. There is an example of the Soviet Council that has been recognised by some Western countries, the conclusion of economic agreements with it, since 1921. What did Boris Tadic and Borko Stefanovic do? The Cefta Agreement, which was concluded with Kosovo – UNMIK in 2006, is now concluded, i.e. Changed with the representatives of Thaci's terrorist government without UNMIK. You threw out UNMIK, you threw out the UN, that is. Not you, but the Boris Tadic regime and has accepted a change in the economic agreement. He confessed to them as a side of the negotiations. In an agreement on July 2nd, Borko Stefanovic also concluded it. The word "border" between Pristina and Belgrade is cited in several places. What line? Where's the Constitution border? How can the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office not see that? Where's the border in Resolution 1244? There's no limit. He says - foreign signatories. You recognize their central authority here, too, i.e. Boris Tadic regime. It's mentioned crossing across the territory of the other side, all three elements of statehood, you've admitted. The central government, the population, the territory, in the agreement concluded by Borko Stefanovic. That's what the International Public Law textbook says. What isn't Zagorki Dolovac clear? If she's done law school, and she is, then she knows it's an actual recognition of KIM. The other thing is whether she is allowed to prosecute for political pressure and that is the biggest problem. Will these young people who come to the prosecution be independent, will they be without the influence of the parties? As successful as they are, they may have the best grades in the world, they may be the best students, but they will have people like Bosko Ristic, Borko Stefanovic, who are who they are, by phone call to direct them here or there. That's the main problem. That's a question we don't get an answer to. What else do we have? What did Dick Marti write for the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the government of Boris Tadic? Dick Marti wrote that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in terms of "yellow houses", human organs trafficking, did not have a more monstrous crime than that, reacted with delay. Serbian authorities have reacted with considerable delay, but have not achieved significant results so far. This means that Boris Tadic's regime, on the advice of its mentors from Washington and Brussels, covered up the fact that human organs have started, human organs have not started trading at KIM, in the occupied Republika Srpska Krajina, and the authorities of captured Serbs have been seized in BiH. These organs have been driven west and into the oil monarchy. (President: Just go back to the topic, please. It's all a matter of public prosecutor's office. (President: We, among other things, have a candidate for your party colleague's son and I think you should get back on the subject, if for nothing, then for the respect of those young people you obviously think well of. That's great, since you mentioned it, just let me finish this. When it comes to trafficking in human organs, from one body, these monsters, including Hashim Thaci, according to Dick Marti, and the Cypriot terrorists negotiated by Boris Tadic and Borko Stefanovic and DS, received more than two million euros from one body, when they cut it apart and sold it, where they already sold it. Then I'll go back to what you said, Madam President, I have another detail for the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. (President: I'm sorry, you should return to the agenda immediately, not afterwards.) Here, this is the issue of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. When we see the principle on which the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office works, it's also on your official website. You on the prominent site have a U.S. Attorney's visit and talk about co-operation with the United States, among other things, in lighting up war crimes. What war crimes? The greatest war crimes have been committed here by Americans: a crime against peace -- the extermination of the Serbian people, the crime against humanity -- trafficking of human organs, the breaking up of narcotics from occupied Afghanistan, they're breaking up through Cypriot terrorists all over Europe, you know that well. Why aren't you investigating these war crimes? Why didn't Zagorka Dolovac, when she met with the U.S. Attorney General, raise that question? When will your war criminals respond? Madeline Albright, Bill Clinton, Wesley Clark and other criminals. It's the U.S. now. No, you can't mention it, and you're boasting good co-operation with the United States. What kind of U.S. is that? At the end of this year, they passed a law allowing for unlimited detention of US citizens. Obama signed that bill and he passed. So, since 2012, the Americans, the American authorities will be able to hold not only foreigners, but their citizens, plus endless detention. What are you working with them for? You're making camp, what are you doing? The Russian Foreign Ministry report details human rights violations in the United States for 2011. Among other things, it is said that one of the advisers of presidential candidate Romni is an expert in torture, that he recommended the methods of torture in Guantanamo, according to Steven Bradbury. The United States is one territory... (President: Mr. Alexic, I'm really going to ask you to get back on the subject, otherwise you won't be able to speak any further. I'm asking you about the agenda and the agenda. ) The agenda is because apparently these young people are not aware of what kind of Republic Public Prosecutor's Office are going to. That's the biggest problem. You suggested them, and did you tell them where they were going? This collaboration with the United States, the world's largest prison population, is in America, 2.3 million people in prison, of which 140,000 maintains life imprisonment, according to the Russian Foreign Ministry, about 20,000 people are constantly in solitary confinement, methods of violence, intimidation, terrorism of the population, over 110,000 recorded cases. (President: Mr. Alexic, are you going to talk about the agenda or should I take measures of another kind? I really hope I'm talking about the agenda. Look, what they chose to put on their website and what they boast about is actually one darkness that doesn't exist anymore in the world right now. In America, according to the Russian ministry, 200,000 children were isolated and violently taken from their parents and sent to foster families. Not to mention racial discrimination and everything else. As for the candidate you mentioned, Madam President, that's exactly the problem, which is what my predecessor tried to disqualify him for what his father is. Only because of that and very insidious, although he knows that these people have absolutely nothing to do with any party, although he knows about it as a professional and is one of the best experts and prosecutors Serbia has. But because his father isn't a member of the DS, because he's not in the DS clan, he's now wanted data on him. Now he should suffer because of what his father, his father, who performs his honor and performs it well, does it well. It's discrimination. It's you people, there's no democracy in you. The Constitution means nothing to you. The law means nothing to you. It means to you like it used to be in a communist party. Look out, Polt Pot ended up on Sorbonne. He studied there and was very successful. That's where they taught him how to kill himself, and it seems massive. So that's some stories. You discriminate against people based on their parents' political determinations. So where's that? What is that, some collective responsibility? That's why you're the child of the UN tribunal. That's why you're the child of The Hague tribunal, who according to Florence Artman, we don't say radicals, according to Florence Artman, who was a senior prosecutor of the prosecution, that the Hague tribunal is controlled by the British and US intelligence services and states to the details that prosecutors are working for which service. Jeffrey Najs for M6 English, prosecutor in proceedings against Slobodan Milosevic. Bill Stubner for the US Military Intelligence Service, chief adviser to the UN tribunal's chief prosecutor. Serge Brammertz, who has 48,000 euros a month's salary, and then wonders why procedures last there for as long as they last. Well, because they're millionaires, people! Unfortunately for the Serbian people, they became millionaires, and you gave them food. When Russia requested the closure of The Hague tribunal in 2008, you better, as an agent of the United States, extradited Radovan Karadzic. You extradited Radovan Karadzic and gave the Hague miniature a new victim and gave him an excuse to extend his work, where he accuses Serbs of everything and everything. They destroyed the evidence of the alleged genocide, the alleged genocide in Srebrenica, destroyed the DNA material. Do you know why? Because they took more samples from the same body and counted as different bodies. They also destroyed evidence of trafficking in the human organs of the Serb people, because they do not care. Florence Artman cites Jamie Shay's words, where he says -- the tribunal and NATO, we are one and I am sure that the chief prosecutor, then Luis Sarbur, will not accuse anyone but Yugoslav citizens, which is contrary to the UN tribunal's statute. That is why they did not accuse war criminals of American war criminals who killed children in KIM, children in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Germany, France, England, etc. That's why. The same is done in the International Criminal Court, where co-worker Bruno Katau, who promises to be the secretary of the International Criminal Court, is now representing the US Embassy not to accuse the British and Americans, responding to a statement by the chief prosecutor of Argentina, Oncampo, who said he is considering the possibility of investigating the actions of British troops in Iraq. That's how they do it. It has nothing to do with justice. It has nothing to do with the truth. You, agreeing to do so, shift that burden to future generations in Serbia. You deny the crimes committed against the Serb people. And here when a Serb dies like nothing happened. Serbs have no rights even in Serbia itself, they have been disproved. They're citizens of second row. That is why our sacred task, the citizens of Serbia, is to free this country from foreign influence, so everyone who serves these foreigners should be ashamed and be ashamed of them. In time, these people will expire, as time expires in America. Our fight wasn't in vain. The Americans had a universal world, after Serbian resistance, a multi-police world appears. Ten years is not small. History is running faster and faster. Ten years is a huge weather station. What you were saying, that our army in Kosovo can return to clear mines, Resolution 1244 says it can return to key border crossings, but is not meant to be an administrative crossing between the Autonomous province and the rest of Serbia, but is meant to be the border towards Albania and other borders. You are establishing borders within Serbian territory, giving up Serbian resources on KIM. Over a thousand billion euros is worth KiM's ore treasure, not counting a healthy drink of water that will be the strategic resource of the 21st century. You give it up. One of the largest supply of healthy drinking water in Europe is located in KIM and Plitvice Lakes where Serbs are expelled. Consider why foreign companies come and take away Serbian property. Why do the British take the Blink from a lead concentrate that drives a little bit, a little with kim? One ton of lead concentrate costs four thousand euros. We, when we were in Kosovo, Mr Krasic, Skrbic, the other SRS and I, saw 20 trucks per 25 tonnes. A convoy passes through Kosovo Mitrovica, a lead concentrate, a convoy worth more than 2m euros. They are being stolen from the Serbian budget thanks to Tadic and Thaci's agreement. It is stolen from Serbs and drove to Montenegro to sell further west. And you're talking, Sutanovac comes out and says -- Belgrade pays Serbs at KIM. How is he not ashamed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66009	First of all, MP Milos Aligrudic, who advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66010	I would point to your three mistakes, based on the violation of Articles 27 and 107, where at the beginning I must say that they are certainly less intensity and volume than they were those she loved to commit by your Vice President Gordana Komic, but I must point to them. The first is an error relating to the management of the session, i.e. the way the criteria for the debate are established. It is your obligation to make sure that MPs speak about the agenda, but I believe that this provision must be interpreted extensively. This means that everything that can be brought into discussion with the agenda topic that we have here is absolutely allowed, and the rest is a question of parliamentaryism. Neither are you a judge, nor are we a court here to observe things that way. Another mistake that I think you're making and that shouldn't be, that's an intrusion, it's been happening a lot more to your vice president before, to discuss the subject of a matter with talking MPs, at least once in a sentence. That's absolutely inadmissible. Third mistake. When applying the provisions of article 107 and taking care of the dignity of the home, that provision is likely to apply equally to all, both those disqualifying a fellow MP in speech and the MP disqualifying a whole group of MPs, for example, that it is a very recent injury, in my opinion, that a whole group of MPs or groups of MPs who have not voted for a certain law, which provides for a certain criminal norm, are practically on the side of criminals, because they allegedly use and like to use funds acquired by crime. So, such a statement had to instantly come upon your disapproval to interrupt the discussion of speakers and to be warned. So these three mistakes that are crucial. (President: Time. Thank you. And I ask that we plead in the voting day if he ever does.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66011	Mr. Aligrudic, you may be happy with my answer, and only then say if we're going to vote in the day. You're safe in advance, congratulations on that. So it's that I'm really committed to keeping an eye on, that the content used by everyone involved in the debate should be in line with the agenda. That my interventions are simply my duty and I think I'm doing it extremely objectively, not selectively, but if you're not satisfied, and obviously you're not in the voting day we'll plead. It's Mrs. Hope Kolundji's national emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66012	Madam President, I really think that the Rules of Procedure and Articles 106 and 107 are being violated, by the fact that the MP is allowed to talk about something that has really nothing to do with the agenda, on the one hand. On the other hand, allowing it to insult false and truly monstrous structures that no brain that isn't covered by darkness could stand up to another man, even if some credible court found it true, not based on the right to a different political stance. So, I think it's simply inadmissible. To abuse the fact that terrible crimes have been committed, among other things and crimes of human organs, and to accuse the authorities of the Republic of Serbia whose merits have been raised and raised on the international scene, gave them the weight and given the chance to determine the full truth is indeed this side, not only of reason but also of political morality, which I believe the citizens will judge, but also now can see how they will judge. So by saying that those who represent such attitudes, they no longer have support among Serbian citizens, although they claim to be the strongest and strongest and I don't know what kind. But I think it is the responsibility of the President to take the obligation, at the very beginning of such qualifications that are inadmissible in the National Assembly, the notices of the MP and by using, or by applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to express measures to prevent such debates in this House. There's one more thing I'm trying to say, so it's not at all about anyone imagining that this or that is, by using his right under his Rules of Procedure to challenge the name proposed and to demand a special statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66013	Mrs. Kolundjia, I really care about the dignity of the assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the potential I have as chairman. On several occasions, I turned my attention to the speaker, and I think at least occasionally I interrupted my intention to actually cross the border of good taste and dignity of this House. But I wasn't, to be quite honest with the belief that speaking the measure would help the atmosphere, and I felt that my way of reacting was fine, but if you're not satisfied with the answer, in the day to vote, we can plead out. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic first called.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66014	I'm going to try to use the line right after I've been misread several times and so I ask if I have the right to a replica? So, the truth works, but for the sake of truth, I'll read Rule 201.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66015	You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66016	Thank you. The truth is, I'll tell you what it says in Article 201. Rules of Procedure, for I do not take the rights of Pharaoh, nor weep for the tyrantic times, but only use the right given to me by the Rules of Procedure. Article 201. The Rules of Procedure say this - a proposal to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the President of the Courts, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutors, members of the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the judge and deputy public prosecutors who are elected for the first time, who, by reason, submits an authorised proposal, the President of the National Assembly delivers to the MPs. The proposals referred to in Article 1 shall be opened at the meeting of the committee responsible and at the meeting of the National Assembly. And now for those who do not read the Rules of Procedure, which is written with the Cyrillic, - during the search session of the committee of directors and at the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials in the position of the 1st member, where this dispute must be explicitly explained. I just took advantage of that right that belongs to me under the Rules of Procedure. He further says, on a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates decides in general by public vote. I didn't say, we won't vote for or against those disputed candidates. And the truth is, so you won't be deluded and delirious, for Mrs Simic-Pajic Milena, I asked for a dispute until I checked the DS membership database, because I got information that she is a member of the DS, not a member of the SRS. I'm not ashamed of that, but I think I have the right to get that information, as I will get information for Mr Markovic and from you, so we'll see if any member of the political party can't be elected because it's the Constitutional Order and the category, and if he can't be elected. I'm undermining again with the intention of voting yes or no, I've only made it clear that I'm contesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66017	Mr Boris Aleksic has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66018	Thank you, Madam President, Mrs Kolundjia, for the report by Dick Martin. I was quoting Dick Marty's report.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66019	Please don't speak to Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66020	Inhumane dealings with people, illegal trafficking in human organs in Kosovo, Dick Marti signed, passed the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Human Rights on 16 December 2010, and later the Council of Europe. The following is said, I quote -- Serbian authorities have reacted with considerable delay, but have so far failed to achieve significant results on human organs trafficking. That's what Dick Marty says, not representatives of the SRS. So, what does it mean to be quite late? We know that we were asking questions about the authorities of the Republic of Serbia about the yellow house. And you know what the answer was? Shut up, push it under the carpet, we need the EU's accession. And indeed, to get EU candidate status, you were prepared to do anything. So, for God's sake, you're giving up Kosovo and the Metohies? So it's not at all controversial. That's what Dick Marty wrote for you. Mr. Milivojevic, you didn't ask for what you said you were looking for, because you're a righteous man, but because you got a party assignment. And you can say whatever you want otherwise when you dispute something, it's logical that you put it on paper, so you can give us a certain explanation, and not just stand up and say, "I'm contesting and I'm asking for a few hours to deliver information, and they don't provide us with information for seven months, even though the Constitution says 30 days." What categories are we talking about now? Where is democracy? What democracy of people? You don't care about democracy? You've introduced kleptocratia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66021	Although this was a replica, I must tell you that the state of Serbia has not given up Kosovo and Metohija in any situation, and actions related to the report by Dick Martia are the necessity of which the official state insists. So, I really think that my intervention here is not part of the idea of answering my word, because this is primarily not a part of the agenda, but I really need to intervene from the presidency's position. Now I give my word to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66022	I don't think there's a lot of need to argue with the political attitudes that have proven all the failures, all the catastrophic effects that citizens know. I don't think that's what we should be getting at. What is important is the fact that this government and the President of the Republic are the ones who launched an investigation into what happened to human organs trafficking, that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia took huge steps in the term of this government and the fact is that we are not running away from doing much, because no one has yet responded. But in collecting documentation to the extent possible, since you still need to know that the Kumanovski Agreement does not allow the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to perform functions on KIM, they do not have jurisdiction there. Therefore, given the limited jurisdiction that a huge job has been done that served Dick Marty in proving what the contents of his report are. I ask that such a terrible topic, which no one in this country can have a different attitude than the human need to determine the truth and that all those responsible for it respond, do not use in such a cheap way accusing the institutions and people in this country of something, for which you do not have any basis, but really represents a completely morbid approach to politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66023	Mr. Alexic, please don't make your participation a reason for any new replicas right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66024	Thank you, Madam President, just for a very short time to make a point. It's not true that this government has launched an investigation. A human organ trafficking investigation has been under way since the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I said that human organs trade existed in the new independent state of Croatia and BiH, and that the authorities of the captured Serbs were also taken away, as well as in KIM. In fact, these were the same tied companies, companies from the West, with the help of the NATO Pact, the United States. It's not controversial, that's what they do, unfortunately, everywhere in the world. That's what they do in Congo, where they killed four million and 200,000 people for cell phones. You need to be interested, you need to read. There was information in the White Paper of the BIA, to help you, about human organ trafficking. That White Paper BIA was pushed into the seal, too. The question arises – why? I'm giving an answer that has an SRS. Our sincere belief and suspicion and fear that this is because you were willing to do anything to gain candidate status. Look, after Dick Marty's report in the traffic media, information appeared that Dick Marty was going to change his report. It was published by Blitz, and that didn't happen. Dick Marty, Swiss, like the old Archibald Rice, also Swiss, remained consistent and honorable until the end. They did not retreat as Boris Tadic receded, related to the KIM Resolution to the UN, in the General Assembly, when he changed his text message, you remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66025	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. You've got 25 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66026	Okay. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, just to remind you of the agenda, because this is the first choice of deputy public prosecutors and I don't propose to be a metal for taste, so that you care about taste, know I love sweet, I don't mind what you like salt. Let's get in line. Anything I say to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and it does not refer to the names and last names of candidates, then concerns crime in Belgrade, crime in Vranj, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Sapac. Anything that's not clear to you is that the D.A.'s office is now given the authority to investigate. What's this investigation gonna look like? She'll probably look like the one in The Hague. First, they arrest a man, and then the charges are confirmed, and then some investigation goes on that doesn't take place, after nine years, they conclude that the time has come to kill a man so they can close the case. You accepted the prosecution school that was present in the Anglo-Saxon system. This reform of the judiciary that includes this change in the prosecution is going towards it. Let's take it in a row. These young people are all between 32 and 37 years old. They have some experience working in the judiciary. Life probably made them manage to get the conditions to solve the issue of work in the profession. I'm sure the State's Major Prosecutor's Office has taken care of all aspects of expertise, dignity, etc. I must remind you, this is where it is forgotten for an hour, that when that first election was made since 2009, here in the Assembly, MPs have discussed the quotas as long as it takes from the DS, as in the SPS. Then the unselected judges and prosecutors, who were in contact with the local municipal boards of DS, said the same thing. Let me remind you, take a stenogram. Let me remind you, in public, the question of the "yellow house" was raised thanks to Carla del Ponte and her book. Remember. This is where we looked for the agenda. You did not allow that item of the agenda, be patient with the Council of Europe to end it with the Shiptars, so we will be in the EU. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in a few days we will have this book, Wikiliks tells me to distribute. You'll have a chance to provide a copy of that book. You'll see who's the fifth column in Serbia. Among other things, you will see Vukcevic and Vekaric go to the US Embassy to file a report. You will also see Sasa Vukadinovic to sell information to the Americans. You will also see Miki Rakic who decides what the prosecution will do. Those in the D.A. think they're deciding some procedures. No one's asking them anything. The National Security Council, Council Secretary Miki Rakic says – this one will be pursued, Djuraskovic will be attacked. Why? To get the SPS down a little bit, since he financed the SPS. You can rip as much as you want, but you know who's boss. You hear there's a very interesting connection between the ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66027	Just pick your appointments a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66028	What term is wrong, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66029	I don't want to repeat my appointment. You know exactly what time you used, which is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66030	When you set up a bonton, I would ask you as in 1921 when in the National Assembly, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, it was a dictionary of forbidden words. There was also the word "bumbar." So the MP wasn't allowed to call the ambassador a bumblebee. That was a forbidden word. You build up that bonton of yours, so let the rip be cast out. I don't mind. So far, there's no list of forbidden words. There's a list of rude words, just a matter of time before I say it, please. Then we can also see that Mickey Rakic is going there. He doesn't just end the matter of security. The central question of security is how to kidnap this white ship. She says she's been working for six months on Tadic's orders. You know what Manter wrote in the dump? As Dacic moved six months before the election to Boris Tadic's side, so you cheated on voters. They thought the SPS of Slobodan Milosevic. This is now the SPS Vesne Pushic. Everything changed in the meantime. Let's move on. You've allowed, and I greatly appreciate you for letting this debate be a little bit wider thanks to one MP of the government that has expanded, and then by the same weapon system if he can, so can we. Let me let you know some things. What challenges do these young people face when they leave as deputy public prosecutor? There's a hierarchy. It is known, Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac, when Nenada Canka, then a few steps lower, there is that Slobodan Radovanovic. Imagine, and he is from Kragujevac, formerly, but there is Ostojić. Because of him, we changed the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office to choose him as the Republic Public Prosecutor at the time of the Sabre. Do you remember, he didn't have a job internship. It's all by your standards, democratic. It's all by democratic standards. You call someone? Then we move on, down, and there's this ridiculous Olympics. There's no such thing as a face in our D.A.'s office. The prosecutor heard that there might be some suspicion that something happened, which is a crime, and he's hiring capacities to investigate. Hell, no. Now I'm going to tell you about that system where the state authorities are in one organization, so you call whatever you want. Whether their bosses are tycoons, organized crime, it doesn't matter whether they're all. You have an MP, Dragisa Djokovic. We don't get along politically. In 2005, however, he wrote a criminal report against Dimkic, director of the "Trepce" that sold business space. Who? A friend from Šapca Bogicevic. Is that criminal charges solved? Come on, when I write down a criminal report, so you don't get her in your hands, it comes to me as normal, but your man wrote, filed a file, this kind of paperwork on Trepchi, what's going on? Why didn't you take it into your hands? There isn't. Why? Two million euros a day in a lead concentrate is leaving, so something goes through Zajaca and into Sapac, then into the Black Horse batteries. Why aren't you working it out? Why didn't you solve who set the congregation on fire? Is there more violence that has been seen in public than the burning of the National Assembly? There's no picture yet, you know. What you stole hasn't been returned yet. Who bullied people, who beat people up in the streets, why didn't you handle it with the new prosecutors? You invented a category of witness associate, shame and shame. You gave some people that status, but imagine, their testimony in court wasn't accepted, and they still have the status of witness associates. Why were they given status? In order to accuse others of criminal acts, and for them to be amnesty to answer and they go to court, testify, all of them say, the court refuses to give them that testimony, and they continue to be witnesses. You've got that Chummet guy, he can step on it, he can hand out slaps on the ministries, he can lock it up. The plagues are paved. What about that minister that I don't know how many thousands of euros she's given for icabana at the airport? Did you solve that? Who bothered you to solve this? Did Slobodan Milosevic bother you to handle it? Well, you delivered him on Vidovday in 2001. This is where Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic gets back to you... I understand this race inside the DS who's a bigger ideologist. A year ago, I told you that Srdjan Milivojevic, the greatest ideologist, since the Resistance controls everything, however, he has a small problem, must not go to Kruševac. There are four factions of DS there. Did you read that man's letter that left the DS because you put him to be a messenger? He had to be an MP, Mickey Rakic decided. Everything he thinks against Dacic he loads the SRS and thinks it can go through. It can't go through. Did you hear what Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said? He prefers Vesna Pusic over Nada Kolundzija. Did you hear that a minute ago? You hate each other, that's your problem, I'm not getting into it, but is your prosecution working? What items are you allowed to catch in your hands that you can't? Now let's talk about Novi Sad. I'm counting on this candidate to be elected deputy prosecutor first thing he's going to do is check into the detention unit of the former director of the Metals Bank. It's the Vojvodina Development Bank now, but we haven't talked in this assembly about how Pajtic wants to steal that bank, to build a development bank of Vojvodina, the future people's bank of Vojvodina. What's going on? In the second half of 2008, you introduced temporary measures, brought your man in and arrested him a year ago for being a member of Saric's criminal group. How'd you get lost? Have you solved the question of the Prince? Where you can go, you can't write. What about Kljajevic, the one who was president of the court council in the case for Zoran Djindjic? He went to the U.S. Embassy all the time to file a report. WikiLeaks reporting, people. Messages, Americans say, are correct, but we have to protect, so that it no longer leaks. Girl, the fifth column is in power. That's where you'll all meet, when, on what day you went and what you said, what you agreed. What do you think, that you're going to put us to sleep with these praises - nice stories, yuck, y'all, so it's morbid when Alexic says it's morbid and you can't go over your mouth. Who can trust you, you vote from Bodrum? You're some tolerance, you're based on discrimination. You, where you stop, conduct discrimination. You're talking about political belongings. Well, who can do what in this country if it doesn't belong to the parties that are in power? You don't respect the coalition agreement with Vuk Draskovic either. So who's gonna believe you tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66031	Mr. Krasic, time machine and advisory activities, that's how I would characterize what you're saying, and it's really not about the agenda. Get in touch with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66032	Here, in order for you not to unfoundedly interrupt me, I suggest you use your authority to invite Marić and inform him that the village of Rasevac in the municipality of Kursumli is ten days obliterated, that is 13 kilometers above the Kursumli spa, there are young children there and young people who are besieged, who literally have nothing to eat, so if you can, use your authority to help, and don't spoil a democratic debate that is going well. I expect those who have been proposed for the deputy prosecutors in the First Municipal, Basic, Public Prosecutor's Office to visit the arrested judge, Blago Jaksic. He's the one who sent a letter and he's talking about how to carry out torture over him. Oh, man, that was a member of the High Judiciary Council. You haven't solved it now, you can't. So how do you let someone in prison harass a man in custody? I know you love Tito, don't overdo it. The revolution eats its children, so you settle everything. All the potamanists. What are you doing with that man? You're doing the same thing with that former head of Metals Bank. He's in custody to keep his mouth shut, so the public doesn't hear what kind of kidnapping is going on. Where's the D.A.? Independently, objectively, impartially, they all have a scarf over their heads and carry out justice based on facts, who they're going to pursue, who they're not going to pursue. This guy stole our mandates, he still confessed to a man in the paper. We started a criminal procedure, you don't care. Where are you going? He abused the official position, he assigned us, he didn't inform anyone, he had a restraining order, you don't care. You're pro-European, the D.A.'s office. They're smart. They're thinking far away. They're not going to take off right away, they're going slowly, they're going to get wet, so when they get there, when they get the evidence, they're going to take care of it. Who the hell are you guys talking to? Well, don't you think no one on the globe knows what's going on in court and what's going on in the D.A.'s office? So if there's anything else every day I've got five guys that I've planted to get to the D.A.'s office to look for some sort of intervention and point out what needs to be done. Five people I have, every day they go to the DA's office for current cases and you throw them out, and I keep track of everything, of course. You all have a file with me. Everyone around me has a file on your computer, prescribing what you were doing, when you were doing, when you were working, why you were doing, everything. I don't know how else to deal with you. Or this one in Vranj. Here's the one in Vranj who's going to be elected, first have him charge him to solve the question of "Junk," as my Nishili would say, "I'll give him money." That's what it was like, Zamber. They can solve, you don't have any Krusheves, but if you did, you'd give him an idea of what to do there. Here, this one that's in Capac and here is challenging the candidacy of someone from Zapac, it's probably for some internal distribution that he was in charge of Bogicevic from "Parmacoma" and then preventively we're not going to put as deputy public prosecutor, because he's supposed to be stalking the big sponsor of the DS. Bogicevic, Farbakom, he has everything there, a businessman man. If it wasn't for Dusan Petrovic, he wouldn't have a dog to bite him for, but now he's become a businessman and you know it. So, are you going to do something? The hell you're gonna do, where you can do it. Tell me how you can handle it. Now let's see what a ridiculous Olympics of the highest judicial authorities looks like. We passed the Budget Law and we put it there that the High Council of Justice has its own budget for courts. What happened? On January 16th of this year, NATO sat down and reached its conclusion and three months later, all these bookkeeping will be run by the Ministry of Justice. What, then, did you fight for your own budget, when you voluntarily give Nati Mesarevic, Nata Mesarevic voluntarily gives Snowžani Malovic who signed the solutions for the delivery of Serbian heroes and you give that secretary of state Homen? You're asking yourself to be under pressure, you don't want independence on your own. Why? You know who chose you, you know who expects you, what you expect, what you have to do and you know, the natural consequence if you don't do what's going to happen. Now someone boasts about European standards, international standards, praises the EU, praises the European Commission. I don't know where you read that commendation. If it wasn't for a few copies here, I don't know who would praise our judicial reform. No one praises. The judges don't praise, the prosecutors don't praise. The people don't praise us, the society of judges doesn't praise us, the patron of citizens doesn't praise us, the trustee doesn't praise us, the SRS doesn't praise us. That's your most important criticism because we told you in time what would happen. Now I hear these from the European Commission and they remembered. They say - you are resented more about the judiciary and imagine, about organized crime. They say organized crime flourishes here. There's a nice water of flowers here, flowers, and you're trying to convince us how great it is, how beautiful it is. Okay, I don't mind. Now, imagine one more thing, what the High Court Council does. They conclude that Maja Kovacevic-Tomic is again scheduled for a year in this special department. And she's so seven, eight years a year. There's twice as much pay there. And you have people who have been like this for 10 years. You want to make a court or you don't want to make a court? When she comes out for a year, so she needs to be interrupted, they say, "No, those things she worked in still have to end, because if she was moved, then she'd have to start the debate again." Is that right? That's what they do in The Hague. They are constantly extending under the strategy to complete the Hague tribunal's work. Since 2008, they've come to 2015, and now they've invented this residual system, how they're going to continue and then they don't care, and if there's no more indictees, it doesn't matter, they're going to judge. Why? Forty to 50,000 euros each month in your pocket. They're acting markety, and our prosecutors are acting markety. Bend the rods, listen to the ministry. He's gonna make a fortune in his pocket. And how many cases have you solved? The chickens will be dealt with. "Evening news," never, "The mouth," "The bow" ever. Why don't you solve Sartid? Labus gave it to him, and he's been running into the Republic of Serbia's budget for billions. When he hooked up with Dinkic, he moved him, and everything starts with the US Institute for the Development of Democracy of the NED, which is made by the G17 Plus. You don't know that? It's not possible. How do I know and you don't know? So I do my job well, you don't do your job. Then go home. Don't act like prosecutors. In Serbia, bribes and corruption are booming, organised crime. Whoever you ask can only mistake your order. Health care, public service, this, that. Well done with rare exceptions in law enforcement, which work honestly and honestly. This second, you hire him, so you don't know if he works for you, whether he works for the opposite side, whether he works with the prosecutor to set you up. Who wants to live in a society like this? Only those who swim well, who act marketly. Take everything life gives you, it's that coalition. A little acting and Vesna Pusic is very important. It is important that the EU commend us, important that you are this far to the EU, so much so as to start negotiations. Do you know how long it takes for this? Oh, guys, you're making jails, as far as I can tell, after the election, you'll be writing nice memoirs in silence. You'll also have to admit everything we may not know yet, and we do know quite well. Change therapy, you can see it's misrepresented. Little yellow drugs can't be drunk, because when you drink little yellow drugs, then you go chipping. So, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, we could answer by contesting all candidates, but since this is only temporary for a year, these people should be given a chance and give these people a message, regardless of the hierarchy that is present in the prosecution, let them take care of how they do their work, let them take the Constitution, the law, the honor and the fact that they should do a very responsible state function, let them all take it into their hands, and let them be guided and let them show that the real knowers of these things are proposed to be elected to these functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-08-0.u66033	Time. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before I conclude, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? (No) I am concluding the investigation into the proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor with a correction. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in Voting Day, because it exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session, please insert cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 126 of us, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Mladen Grujic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We move to a statement on the 1st point of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER OF THE COURT OF COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF APPELACION I hereby put to the vote Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice from the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. This decision can be made by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I find that of 126 MPs, all 126 voted in favour, that is, the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a motion for a decision. We move to a statement on the 2nd item of the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Public Prosecutors, WITH REFERENCE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia elects deputy public prosecutors, most of the votes of all MPs. Since the MPs have challenged two candidates from the motion for a decision to elect deputy public prosecutors with a correction, number 119-279/12, I remind you that the National Assembly agrees with Article 201(4). The Rules of Procedure on a proposal for the selection of each of the contested candidates shall be decided individually and the proposal for a selection of candidates who are not contested shall be decided by a general public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal to elect Miodrag Markovic, a member of the Belgrade Judicial Academy, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. All 126 voted in favour of the proposal, so I find that the National Assembly chose Miodrag Markovic as deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade by majority of the votes of all MPs. I would like to vote on the State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal to elect Milena Simic-Pajic, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Of the 126 MPs, four voted in favour of the proposal, so I find that the National Assembly did not select Milena Simic-Pajic as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Capac, most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, with a correction, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. You're contesting a plea. We're gonna have to do it again. Please make a statement. I repeat the vote. Of 126 MPs, all 126 for. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a motion for a decision to elect deputy public prosecutors, with a correction, in general. Since we have come to terms with the motion for a decision, allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish for success in the work. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 8 February 2012, at 15 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of 126 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has decided most of the votes that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nada Kolundžija, at a session on 8 February 2012, at 15 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of 126 MPs, two for. I find that the National Assembly has decided most of the votes that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. The session is closed at 10.25 hours. )
