ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-01-0.u6114	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Milekic, Milorad Stosic, Zoran Radovanovic and Dijana Vukomanovic. We continue our work and move on to a decision on the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013. One year with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security for 2013. This appropriation is intended to cover: One year, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Fund for Social Security of Military Security for 2013. THE YEAR AND PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON CONSOLIDATION ON THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE NATIONAL JOBING SERVICE FOR 2013. BEFORE we move to a decision on the Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 50 abstentions – there is no, no vote – six, of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. By written amendment, the government withdrew to Article 7, which delivered Act No 400-8101/12 from 16 November 2012 and MPs: Mira Petrovic to Section 29, which submitted on 21 November 2012, Olgica Batić to Section 25, which submitted on 22 November 2012, and Ranka Savivić to Article 7 which submitted on 22 November 2012. Part of the draft law has become an integral part of the Government's amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, to Sections 7, 23, 29 and 51 and to Articles 12, 15 and 24. The amendment proposed to the addition of new members of 24a and 24b and amendments to Articles 34, 35, 37 and 41; the amendment of the Government and the joint MPs of Theodora Vlahović and Dr Janko Veseninović, in the same text, to Article 36; amendments of the People's MPs together Theodore Vlahović and Dr Janko Veseninović to Article 4, Dr Vladimir Marinković to Article 5 and to Article 7 of the correction 31, jointly Las Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek to Article 16 and 43 with the correction, Srdjana Šajna to Article 7th Division 16, 21 and 24 with corrections, Prof. Dr Miodrag Stojković to Article 16 and 24 with the correction, Vere Paunović to Article 7 of the correction, together Dr Nenadjan Šajnadović to Articles 16, 21 and to the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, to the Republic of Croatia and to the Republic of Croatia, to the Republic of Croatia. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 157 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, there are no, abstentions – no, no – 158 out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, there are no, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 184 of the 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, there are no, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 192 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dusica Morchev, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one, abstention – there is no, 183 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 187 of the 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstention – voted 172 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 188 of the 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 187 of the 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Nenad Popovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodine submitted to the 6th Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 153 out of 2204 MPs did not vote for – 50 against – one abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – no one with abstention – has voted 161 of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Mr Svetislav Bulajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 50, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Srdjan Mikovic, Sinisa Lazic, Radoslav Milovanovic and Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, v – one, abstention – one, no 188 MPs voted out of 205. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 189 MPs out of 204. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, the 1st amendment with a correction was filed by international MP Ranka Savic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted 193 MPs out of a total of 204. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Enis Imamovic and Bajro Gegic to section 7th and 16th. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 194 MPs out of 204. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th of the amendment, the People's MP, Dr Slobodan Samardzic, submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 MPs out of 204. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th of the amendment, the mid-national MP Marko Jaksic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 190 MPs out of 204. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 3rd amendment to article 7. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has voted 190 MPs out of 205. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th of the amendment, Commissioner Riza Halimi is a mid-national member of Parliament. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 198 MPs out of 205. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Sections 3, 13, 14, 16, 19, 23, 24, 25, 30, 31, 39, 50 and 52 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Sinisa Lazic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one with abstention – has voted 173 MPs out of 207. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Division 3, 16, 19, 20, 23, 24, 27th and 29th amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Čizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 MPs out of 207. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 24 of the amendment, the MP Dr Ruzica Igic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 MPs out of 206. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 31 of the amendment, MP Petar Petkovic, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 MPs out of 206. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th of the 16th Amendment, MP Bojana Bozanic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstention – has voted 190 MPs out of 206. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th of the 16th Amendment, he is a mid-national MP, Dr Nenad Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 193 MPs out of 208. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Division 16, 18, 23, 27, 32, 41st and 52nd amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Dr Janko Vesenović and Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 163 MPs out of 208. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapcevic submitted amendments to Sections 16, 19 and 20 of the amendments. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment complies with the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstention – has voted 192 MPs out of a total of 208. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted amendments to Article 7 and to sections 16, 19, 20, 23 and 24 of the amendments. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -52, against -5 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 151 out of a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic to section 7th and 23rd. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -45, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments with the correction were submitted by the international MP Nenad Konstantinovic to section 7th and 23rd. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment in the basic text. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The government and the committee responsible have not declared themselves correcting the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -44, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Palalic submitted amendments to section 7th and 24th of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 193 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gorica Mojovic submitted the amendments to section 7th and 27th. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -46, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Sinisa Kovacevic submitted amendments to section 7 of the amendments. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 192 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted the amendments to Section 7th and 28th. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 194 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 20 amendments were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -35, against -no one with abstentions - did not vote - 172 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 20 amendments were submitted by MP Miroljub Stojcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 207 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to Sections 20 and 25 of the amendments. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 192 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 21 amendments to the correction were submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment in the basic text. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The government and the committee responsible have not declared themselves correcting the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 193 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 23 amendments were submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 198 of the 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 7, 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 194 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 190 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th part 24 amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – no one with abstention – has voted 161 of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 25 amendments were submitted by MP Mira Petrovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 85, against – no one, with abstention – voted 121 out of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 26 amendments were submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 192 of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 27 amendments were submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 29 amendments were submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 190 of the 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 30 amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Miljenko Dereta, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Svetislava Bulajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 165 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 30 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 192 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gorica Gajic submitted the amendments to Sections 34, 3 and 19. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 205 MPs for – 17 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 191 of the 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 190 of the 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 190 of the 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 193 out of the 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 192 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Ranka Savic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Mr Svetislava Bulajic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, against – no one, with abstention – voted 165 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 14th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 194 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Srdjan Mikovic, Sinisa Lazic and Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 192 of the 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 192 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Nenad Popovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 192 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 205 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 18th amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 19th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 194 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 out of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 out of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 out of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 out of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 208 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic submitted the 30th amendment together. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 194 out of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric submitted the 30th amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 42, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerof, Kenan Hajdarevic, Mr Svetislav Bulajic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 187 of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 193 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for - three against - 206 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 194 of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 39th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 191 of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one who has not voted – 208 of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Mihajlov has submitted an amendment to add a new article 39a to article 39a. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 194 of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 191 of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 42a be added after Article 42a. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Nenad Popovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 195 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I find that several amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to the provisions of Article 5(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Budgetary system law, budget revenue and income must be balanced with expenditure budget expenditure. Some of the amendments have made changes in the part of the budget governing expenditure and expenditure, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the provisions governing revenue and budget receipts. With that in mind, I suggest that the National Assembly's service, before the publication of the law, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, v – 19, abstention – one, did not vote – 52 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – 69, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – three out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 2013 Budget Law by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since we adopted the Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, we are moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly gives agreement to the financial plans for 2013 of the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Fund for Military Insurance and the National Employment Service. I would like to put the motion for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2013. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 65 abstentions – there are no, no five votes, of a total of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2013. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2013. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – 62, the abstentions – there are no, there are no nine votes, of a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2013. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2013. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 61 abstentions – there is no, no vote 12, of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2013. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2013 National Employment Service's financial plan. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, against – 59, the abstentions – there is no, there is no 13 vote, of a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2013 National Employment Service Financial Plan. We'll continue our work Monday December 3rd at 11.00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Mirna Kosanovic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Zoran Radovanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Susana Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister; Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business and Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Meetings attend and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry; Aleksandar Ljubajić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry; Michela Nikolic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry; Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia; Stanimira Mijailović, Head of Finance and Industry; Andrijana Stojković and Dragomir Matović, Senior Managers in the Agency for Privativnica, Dragjanna Gordević and Mirdević in the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 to 12 of the agenda. Before that, he has a word for the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
