ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3085	Dear People's MPs, before we begin the session, I want to apologize for the delay, because today because of the card exchange we had to wait for this process to end. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 170 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3086	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I will ask two questions. So there has been good practice since 2000 that the Ministry of Culture has been predominant in a number of films so that they can be made easier, leaving some archival trail on Serbia's cultural map to testify about some time. But how can all things, from our best intentions, turn into something that is quite the opposite, I ask the question of the Minister of Culture to answer me – how many films since 2000 have been overcome without ever being made? I believe that these questions from culture are not too interesting as questions about the menu range in the Assembly, but I would like to be given the appropriate space, Madam Chairman. So how many films did they get scholarships without ever being made, never being started or never being finished? What are those movies? What is the amount and what are the producers? Will the Ministry of Culture do anything to get those funds back? It was very common for these Potenkin movies in the form of a fake first film day to start, to fall, to drink whiskey, to play the rave wheel and never to make the film. That's the first question. The second question is about RTS work. I don't know why a large group of MPs like to call him "public service." So it's known that RTS is in huge debt, that it barely binds the end, that fees and wages are not paid at the same time. Serbia's radio television has one huge capital in a few million commercial seconds. Dear friends, these are those seconds that you see and notice as ads before the diary, after the diary, before the series, during the series, in the half-time of various sports games, etc. This is about a few million seconds if you divide it into the first and second television programs. At the same time, the payment of the subscription fell to barely 30%. Unlike Croatia where the charge is over 95%. Are the Croats more prone to their national television, do they love her more than we love ours? Is the Croatian program much better than ours? So these are all questions that require an answer and that are rhetorical. My basic question – is it true that this huge marketing and financial potential is sold in advance, at a 10-fold or multiple prices, to relevant companies, agencies or businesses? If that's true, who owns these companies? Is it true that these are, in the first order, Mrs. Gilas and Shaffer? What is the projected profit, or projected loss, and is there any element of the crime involved? I'm deeply convinced that if this kind of billing, like it used to do before this guy's software ideas appeared, before the computer appeared, television would charge itself for this ink pen and sell these programs. I'm afraid this is about significant funds, and especially at the time of Serbia's national television, I'd say dear friends, before they shut down. I won't talk too much about the importance of national television, to what extent it should be a backwater dam and a ham that floods us from all sides, to what extent that pillar is the bearer of national culture. Another rhetorical question for the end, where you'll see it with Mozart's River, where you'll see the New Year's Vienna concert, where you'll see a good movie, a good talk show, a good school, a good documentary show, if not on national television. On ours, not necessarily, because it has no concept, no idea, no attitude, no clearly guided repertoire thought. Last time I said what I thought about the national television program, but I'm afraid these assets I'm talking about are huge and go into the hands of a certain group of people who act as the owner of that space by allowing or not allowing someone to propagate their products, whether they're political, whether they're pâtés. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3087	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3088	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I ask the question to the National Assembly - is it possible that the President of the National Assembly has information that, past the knowledge of the National Assembly, has changed the Law on Agricultural Land, given that the delegation that was in Abu Dhabi a few days ago absolutely passed that law and has offered 25 thousand hectares of state agricultural land to rent there, which goes directly to the damages primarily to farmers in our country, since it is an apparent disregard for the law and the reputation of our country as a country in which laws and general laws are respected? Also, another question is being raised – do we now have an agreed economy in Serbia, given that this is a classic example? If anyone in the Republic of Serbia could feel danger and if anyone learned what an agreed economy is, then it is the AP Vojvodina. I believe that this should be considered seriously, and this issue must be answered by the National Assembly. Namely, the most valuable Vojvodjan property, the Duke's "Naftagas", which is named NIS donated to the Russian Federation for a promise of South Stream, has gone so that the only thing we have of this whole famous agreement is the gift of NIS, and now we have a situation that Mladjan Dinkic announces and presents without a tender 25 thousand hectares of land to the United Arab Emirates, again in exchange for promises of future investments. Except in this way Dinkic explains what he thinks of Vojvodina, in which his party has not crossed the censorship, what he thinks of the Vojvodina farmers, what he thinks of the companies interested in renting the land, Dinkic thus shows what he thinks of the restitution, as the land he has promised is the subject of restitution and that many citizens expect the outcome of the dispute. In fact, it is more than obvious that Dinkic cannot give up 25,000 hectares of land without a tender because he decided so and estimated it was best. If this still succeeds, after the most valuable Vojvodina company "Naftagas" and the most valuable one that Vojvodina has, which is agricultural land, can we expect that in some of the following agreements, thanks to its free appraisal, Dinkic gifts, for example, Petrovadine Fortress or 25 thousand citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina? In doing so, far from the Vojvodina needing no investment, far from the fact that agriculture is in great shape and far from the fact that Vojvodina does not need fresh capital, but so far experience with the agreed economy, on the one hand, and, of course, the effect of Mladjan Dinkic makes us be careful. Mladjan Dinkic, now offering 25,000 hectares of the country, announced the creation of a new JAT, and announced in 2008 that if the privatisation of this company fails, the state would finance its restructuring and buy new planes. Two months later, he said that JAT would not receive a single dinar from the republican budget, yet several months later, the assembly approved a 10m-euro loan, which for investments, which for the social programme. The division of JAT's actions was announced in 2010, so that it would immediately say that these actions might be nothing, so that the United Arab Emirates should be clear about what kind of negotiator they are actually dealing with, it should be clear that what they are offered is directly contrary to the laws of this country and the National Assembly should protect its integrity, its dignity and not allow ministers to break the laws at that time because they have assessed that it is best. So my question is, has the Law on Agricultural Land changed, and will the Assembly do anything about what is not respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3089	Thank you. To answer, since the laws change in the congregation procedure, the National Assembly has not received a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land. The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3090	Madam Chairman, my question was addressed to the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Military, Mr. Vukic, but also to the Minister of Finance. The question refers to professional soldiers, members of the professional army, who, according to the interpretation of the union, have no right to compensation for a warm meal and regression. While there was regular military service, there were tables in the barracks, but with the suspension of the regular, and the introduction of professional service of the military deadline, the tables were lifted. Now I ask the question – does this mean that our professional army should wear sandwiches or that it goes to neighboring shops and buys, for example, after the break of the exercise. Burek? Why not apply Article 118 to professional soldiers. The labour law, by which employee has the right to compensation for food costs during work and the regress for the use of annual vacations? I would not ask this question in the Assembly, because I asked the Ministry of Labour, i.e. I asked for an interpretation and their opinion and for my enormous astonishment I received the answer that the interpretation of the law, i.e. this member of the law, would only be paid by a fee of 10,330 dinars. We've talked a lot about taxes in the past few days or months, about the profits that a taxi will have for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is why I'm asking the finance minister a question at the height of this fee. Is this even normal, that one tax on one opinion is 10,330 dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3091	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3092	The Honorable Chairman, I have a few questions, and perhaps the minister will be able to help us one moment, since he is there, if he has a desire to help us, of course, and if any fellow MPs are willing to listen to us. Do the "Broeder's 1" and "Broeder's 2" hydropower plants fall into the ranks of high dams? It's a question of Ministerial Energy. Is the energy from these plants considered green and are these projects running as CDM projects? Whoever deals with energy knows what CDM projects are. The first question is – is it also why investigations are being carried out against the members of the Environmental Association "Bran" in Prepolje? Why does he break into their houses every night? Why are their houses being searched? Why do environmental activists in the 21st century in Serbia, because they defend their right to the environment, beat themselves up? I see the minister is not absolutely interested - thank you. How is it possible that a company, the minister is still not interested -- thank you, sues citizens for dissipating national hatred, while both Bosniaks and Roma and Serbs are in the group at the same time? How can three different national communities in an ecological association at the same time spread national hatred? I'm sorry, but Mr. Secretary is still not listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3093	Mr. Karic, just to warn you, the minister is not obliged to attend this part of the session at all, so I ask you to ask a question without warning the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3094	Is it not an obligation to speak when MPs speak, or is it an obligation to speak when another MP speaks? Please explain that to me. Why are the beatings in and whether they're taking investigative action towards members of the environmental organisations "Bran" in Prijepolje? Why are they called to court every day, to Uzice, even though it's a court in Prepolje? Do you have any intention of making, I don't know why you feel called because I don't mean your MP group at all, there are other parliamentary groups here dealing with this issue? Is the Archon Convention respected in Serbia, is there a strategic impact assessment on the environment and why all these laws are not respected? This is why today we also have chaos in protecting the environment because there are no, because the interested public does not call for public debates, and public debates do not exist, and that is why today we have chaos and when it comes to nickel, and when it comes to nuclear energy, and when it comes to such cases of non-consultation of the interested public and people living in areas that are ecologically threatened. No one from Belgrade has the right to make a decision on behalf of the citizens of Prepolje and on behalf of the citizens of Priboj. But that's not the scariest thing about this story, it's the scariest thing that they're picking up, that they're being intimidated and that they're being led by a variety of procedures, all in the interest of a company that doesn't deal with renewable energy sources at all, because these projects aren't green and they don't deal with renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3095	Next word came from MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3096	I would like to ask the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, as I have already asked the question once and received an answer on the war damage compensation caused by fascist Germany in the Republic of Serbia. I received a response that the 2008 Commission of the Republic of Serbia, which was formed, met several times, that two members of the commission had passed away, that one member of the commission had resigned and that the commission's mandate expired in 2010 and that the government of the Republic of Serbia had not yet made a decision on the formation of a new commission. This response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia could be interpreted if nothing concrete had been done, and my question was, what has been done specifically? That's why I'm going to make my question very clear now in a few sub-questions. First, is there an agreement Tito – Willi Brant of 1973, under what agreement did Tito charge 300 million breast marks in the name of war damage and take 700 million breast marks of favourable loans, and is it true that the total amount on behalf of the payment of the war damage Tito invested in infrastructure and that no single dinar, or any single mark, received victims and families of the victims? I mean not only war prisoners, but families who were killed in these areas and families who suffered great material damage. Secondly, is it an integral part of the agreement during the golden Tito's reign to open borders and that too many people, unemployed above all, receive the Federal Republic of Germany, but also other EU countries? In a political sense, I can say that during the golden period of Tito's rule in the communist Yugoslavia, that Tito's workers had a kind of referendum and decided, when they opened their borders, when they got passports, not to go through China or the Soviet Union or some other countries, they already went 100% to EU countries, and most of all to France and Germany. Then, why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if the mandate of the Commission has expired which has done nothing on these issues, why has it not extended the mandate to the Commission or formed a new commission? The fifth question, which is most concrete, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia form a new commission, with a new mandate, which will finally, in particular, do, as estimates of the war damage in these areas move somewhere around 180 billion dollars, I mean in the territory of the former Yugoslavia? I will also note that there were about 5,000 officers from Serbia alone in the capacity of wartime prisoners, that there were over 300,000 soldiers, that more than 420,000 households were displaced, that hundreds of thousands of people were forced to mobilize and that the situation of fascist crimes in these areas was very large for the state to be so non-shalantly applied to this matter. The other day, we marked a carnivorous tragedy. You know what it meant then for a small Kragujevac to be completely black on October 21st 1941, because German fascists executed about 3,000 civilians and many children? That is why I expect to answer these very specific questions in the most recent period, and if I get an answer again, round and round, I will continue with these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3097	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3098	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of workers and minority shareholders of the Nisal company, I am asked to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia the following question. Will the review of disputed privatisation also cover the review and privatisation of this company? Namely, it remains unclear why then the most successful enterprise in Serbia's metal complex, which was then worth 61m euros to the privileged buyer Domal-engineering from Belgrade, for only 325,000 euros, according to an independent auditory house in Belgrade? What can be justified by the procedure of the then director of the Privatisation Agency, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and then Minister of Economy Mr. Vlahovic, that such a successful company had gifts "Domal" that had only 3,768 euros per bonus, instead of owning a million euros in the account and two million euros in annual capital turnover? Why is the value of the capital of only 75 million dinars shown at the 1997 estimate, without revaluation, instead of the real market value that, as I pointed out, amounted to 61m euros? Is it intentionally impossible for the staff consortium to appear in the tender, as for them, the requirement for the tender was 1m euros in capital and 2m euros in annual turnover, as well as for Domal, with an additional condition that the consortium has at least one face with that capital? Normally, since the consortium didn't have any faces with that kind of capital and didn't show up in the tender. Why did it go beyond that when it came to Domal who also didn't have such a turnover of annual capital? Why didn't the tender committee announce the tender failed, since Domal didn't meet the terms of the tender? What was the opposition to the first proposed president of the tender commission, Kori Udovici, and was it not, instead, for the re-trial of the tender commission, President Slobodan Petrovic, then Deputy Minister Vlahovic? Why did Vlahovic insist on fast selling Nisal if it was a successful business? As it is possible for a new buyer to mortgage the privatisation entity, contrary to the law and raise mortgage loans in 2004 worth up to 6m euros, in 2005 worth 8m euros, in 2006 amounting to 11m euros and in 2007 amounting to 18m euros. Why was the buyer allowed to sell the property immediately after entering the property, although the employees were alerted, asking for the sale to be stopped despite the amount paid of 325,000 euros, which was managed by the Privatisation Agency when it allowed the purchaser, in this case "Domal", to pay with a year's delay, so the new owner of Nisal by selling Nisal's assets to Nisal and, in fact, without any dinar, bought the said company. Why has no one from the former government done anything to request a review of a dozen minority shareholders' clubs and councils led by formerly the late Verica Barac. Why nothing was done against participants of such irregularities on criminal charges, a club of minority shareholders, nothing was done even after reporting to the special prosecutor for organised crime, who was protecting the new owner. Why, despite all these irregularities, is the buyer allowed to change the structure of the capital and who allowed it? Finally, what is the role of former President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, in privatising Nisal's business?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3099	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3100	The issue concerns the Ministry of Justice and the present minister, with respect and respect, and relates to the Constitutional Court's decision to return a number of judges to judicial functions. Therefore, it is the fact that nearly 400 judges are required to return to the Constitutional Court's functions under the Constitutional Court's decision, so the question is that since the Constitutional Court has made a decision that is exclusively related to procedural deficiencies or procedural disturbances made during the work of the High Council of the judiciary, whether a new regulation on the assessment of the work of judges is planned, because we have two groups of judges, one group of judges who point out the three-year status of judicial functions, in order to turn them into a permanent judicial function and another group of judges who undoubtedly belong to this 400 corpus, who return to judicial functions, asking whether all those who return, in view of the rules applicable to the evaluation of their work, can indeed return, having in mind that the fact that the Constitutional Court did not go back to the essence, did not re-election of these shortcomings, such as the failures of the VSS, such as the failures of the failures and the failures to resolves of the law. Accordingly, whether amendments to or additions to the Labour Systemtisation Regulation are being prepared, taking into account the fact that each return judge must have its own expert associate. In any case, this means that after the formation of a new network of courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the number of professional associates must be increased. Automaticly, the Ministry of Justice comes in a kind of way, not a problem, as many situations and circumstances related to co-operation with the Ministry of Finance with regard to the provision of money to pay off earnings, both to new judges and professional associates. Finally, whether the Ministry of Justice, again in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, plans to increase funds to secure the so-called technical support of courts, especially where the network of courts is returning, which is the security of computer equipment that has lagging behind, endured, improving the quality of the rolling stock, given the fact that it is highly amortised, vehicles of over 10 years of age. Finally, what is important to point out is whether an increase in the number of enforcement officers involved in the judicial administration and executive departments, given the fact that the courts returning to the places where the judicial units were, will also have a great need, for the conduct of the actions and executions, as they once did, and now obviously because of the fact that the judicial reorganisation, where the courts did not exist, the executions were difficult to take place, the perpetrators traveled a hundred miles to carry out the executions and whether there is a plan for action to be done on this plan to do more in order to raise the efficiency of the execution to a higher level. Finally, and the final question is whether it is planned, given that judges and officials have extremely low earnings that are less than 200 euros, and given the fact that they are attached to the almost passed financial laws on increasing their earnings by only two percent, whether they are planning to earn as much balance as possible in order to stimulate both those who work and how delicate work in courts, which are judicial administrations, are offices and so on. These issues are particularly well-intentioned and have one motive, it is in this respect, to remove the concerns of the President of the Courts, and thus also of the courts themselves that have huge problems, problems which will be related to technical issues that must be addressed, to provide technical conditions for the release of court space, and also to all other problems that I have identified, and especially to the problems of charging judgment fees which are very difficult, especially in cases of regular jurisdiction, or general courts, and then to the commercial courts, in view of the fact that enterprises in the restructuring are simply not subject to the obligation to pay for court fees, because the enforcement procedure cannot be carried out, or is not allowed in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3101	Thank you. Unfortunately, the minister of justice, although present, has no opportunity to answer you now, I assume he will do so within 15 days. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Milisav Coguric, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration and Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Normal Affairs and International Co-operation at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. They were delivered to you: The first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 31 May and 23 July 2012, the minutes of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, the minutes of the session of the Third and Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, the minutes of the session of the 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th and 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2012 and the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 31 May and 23 July 2012. I ask the Members of Parliament to press the corresponding key on the corresponding parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 38, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 31 May and 23 July 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 31 May 2012. I ask the Members of Parliament to press the corresponding key on the corresponding parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 27, out of a total of 151 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 31 May 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 2012 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 24 and 26 July 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -122, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 28, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 on 24 and 26 July 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 25 July 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, no one, with abstentions, voted - 25, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 on 25 July 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 26 and 27 July 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, no one, with abstentions, has voted - 24, of the 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 on 26 and 27 July 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 2 and 4 August 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 127, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 22, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 2 and 4 August 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 6 August 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 26, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 on 6 August 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 29, 30, and 31 August 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote - 25, of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 29, 30 and 31 August 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 25 September 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 21, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 25 September 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 25, 26 and 27 September 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 26, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 25, 26 and 27 September 2012. I am voting on the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 8 October 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 24, out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 on 8 October 2012. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Predrag Markovic suggested putting the Bill on the agenda of Archival Construction and Archive Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one with abstention – one voted – 125, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Neđe Jovanovic proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – none, the abstentioned – one, voted – 141 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, Volksbank a.d. Belgrade, Vojvodjanske Banka a.d., Novi Sad, Societ Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Uni Credit Banka Serbia a.d., Amsterdam Trade Bank Netherlands and Deutsche Banka AG London be put in charge of the Public Enterprise “Serbias” Novi Sad, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 October 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 30, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Arsic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to conduct a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (AD Railway Serbia: Rehabilitation of the railway) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (Ad Railways of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Italy on Co-operation in the field of Energy and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues; Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia and Proposal for a Decision on Understanding at the Statute of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Veroljub Arsic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 127, no one, with abstentions, has voted 27 of the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amnesty, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic; 3. Proposal for a Law on Migration Management, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (AD Railways of Serbia: Rehabilitation of railways) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (A project to improve the water forces of the system in Subotica) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a decision to elect a Council of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds of the National Assembly; 10. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Statute of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee on the Industry of the National Assembly; 11. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP banka Serbia a.d., “Volksbank” a.d., Vojvodjanska banka a.d., Sociale Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Uni Credit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Amsterdam Trade Bank Netherlands and Deutsche Banka AG London under the authority of the Public Enterprise “Srbigas” Novi Sad, which was submitted by the Government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – the proposal of the Amnesty Law has been adopted by the Government's draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one minute, one minute and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia – 30 minutes; the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia – 18 minutes; the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party – 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of the United Regions of Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia – nine minutes and 36 seconds; the Parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia – nine minutes and 36 seconds; the United Party of Serbia – eight minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of Serbia's delegation group with the ethnic groups of Serbia; the six-member groups of Serbia; the six-member groups of Serbia's, the six minutes; the ethnic group of Serbia's political group of ethnic groups; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the Serbians; the six minutes; the ethnic groups of Serbia's, the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the six minutes; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the six; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnics; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the majoritys; the majoritys; the majoritys; the group of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the majoritys; the majority of Serbia; the majoritys; the six; the majoritys, the majoritys; the majoritys of the majoritys of the majoritys of the majoritys of the group of the majority groups of the majoritys of Serbia; the majoritys of the majoritys of the group of the group of the majority of the group of Serbia; the majority of the majority of the majority of Serbia; the group of the majority of the majority of the group of the majority of the majority of the group of the majority of the majority of the group of the majority of the majority of the According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by MPs on these agenda points: Snezana Malović – MP group DS; Djordje Milicevic – MP group SPS, Predrag Marković – MP group URS; Bojan Djuric – MP group LDP, Meho Omerović – MP group SDPS and Olena Papuga – MP group LSV. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the Amnesty Law proposal. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, minister of justice and state administration, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a representative of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3103	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, allow me to give several preliminary notices at the beginning of the debate on the Amnesty Bill, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which prepared the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. Amnesty is one of the institutes of criminal law that is generally adopted and envisioned by all modern criminal laws. By its legal nature, amnesty is an act of political will by the authorities. According to Article 99, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly gives amnesty for criminal acts. In accordance with Article 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Criminal Code, amnesty is an act which, namely, undefined persons, whose circle is determined by the act of amnesty, gives release from prosecution or, in full or in part, from the execution of the sentence, replaces the fine imposed, gives rehabilitation or abolishes individual or all legal consequences of the person. The Amnesty Law provides for a partial or complete release from the execution of a prison sentence for persons who are legally convicted of criminal offences prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia or have been prescribed by laws that have ceased to apply. Amnesty applies to persons who are on the date of entry into the law at the time of the prison in the Republic of Serbia or who have not yet entered into detention, as well as to persons who are convicted of crimes in the Republic of Serbia, while abroad maintaining the prison term for the crimes. The proposed law on amnesty changes the situation of convicted persons because, above all, social and economic opportunities have changed. I would remind you that general amnesty was last given in February of 2001. In view of the adoption of new rules containing international standards in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions and the situation of convicted persons in support of prison sentences, it is necessary to adopt a proposed law on amnesty in order to improve convicted persons. This law will cover about 3600 people out of 8,000 convicted persons. This means that 1100 convicted persons will be fired at the moment, and the effect of the entry into force of this law would lead to a direct reduction of budget costs by around 127 million dinars. If we talk about the overall long-term financial impact, it is reducing budget costs by about 800 million dinars. It should be noted that our Administration's capacity to enforce criminal sanctions at this time is 7500 persons, and that there are in them at the time of maintenance of the sentence, therefore, convicted persons, persons in custody, offenders at the moment of 11375. I would refer to individual solutions, which contain the bill. Article 1 The bill envisions the release from the execution of 25% of the prison sentence, persons who are legally sentenced to jail on the day of entry into force of the law. In addition, a full release has been found from the execution of a prison sentence for persons who have been sentenced for the first time to three months in prison, for those who have been sentenced to three to six months, the prison sentence is reduced by 50%. Article 2 The bill provides for an exemption from amnesty. The amnesty has been excluded from those who are convicted of the most severe forms of serious crimes by a 30-40-year sentence for crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, crimes against half-freedom, serious forms of domestic violence, serious forms of unauthorized production and trafficking of intoxicating drugs, crimes against constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia and criminal acts of bribery and bribery. As well as persons convicted of crimes with an element of organized crime. In addition, amnesty is not applied to persons who are more than three times legally sentenced to unconditional prison sentences, and no erasure of convictions has been carried out or there are no conditions for eradicating some of the three convictions. The exception to the application of amnesty does not apply to convicted persons who are 70 years old and who are released from the execution of 25% of prison sentences. Article 3 The bill provides for the release from the execution of a single sentence of 25% of the individual penalties previously imposed for criminal offences committed in practice, which are covered by amnesty. Article 4 The bill stipulates that amnesty does not apply to persons who are ordered to issue an arrest warrant, for not reporting on the maintenance of the prison or escape sentence, and Article 5. The bill finds that this amnesty does not apply to persons who support prison sentences for criminal offences under which a decision was taken to reduce prison sentences under the earlier applicable law on amnesty. Articles 6-9 The draft laws are procedural provisions which contain any law on amnesty, which prescribes jurisdiction of courts, the procedure for adopting a solution to the application of amnesty, the release of the freedom of the person to whom the amnesty applies, if the person is in custody or is in custody, the procedure of appeal for a solution to the application of amnesty, as well as the subsequent application of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Amnesty Procedure. Finally, let me thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate, in principle and in particular, the proposed law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3104	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SNS Group is Mr Vladimir Cvian. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3105	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs and MPs, must first and foremost bear in mind that such a government's proposal for an amnesty law is a far-reaching move. It is undeniable and cannot be disproved by the fact that prisons in our country are overrun, as well as the fact that we cannot ignore that the state budget does not have enough resources to increase the number of prisons, which in the end would mean building new prisons, which I find very necessary for this country. I will not enter into the analysis of the law itself, as Minister Selakovic did it by reading his proposal, but I will refer to the legal consequences of such a bill. First of all, I think of the legal consequences of this law. The persons who are freed from punishment under this law do not mean that they are exempt and are reduced by any kind of obligation. So, amnesty actually changes the situation of convicts and it's undeniable, but all other obligations like that. Obligation of damages, remain in force. Such persons, if they commit crimes again, will feel that they have been sentenced to that sentence in prison, not the one they have effectively endured due to amnesty. What is acceptable, and what is the good side of this bill is reflected in its economic consequences, as it is certain that such a government bill creates savings in the state budget. On the other hand, the purpose of punishment is always a double. First, that the convict seems not to commit crimes in the future, and the second is that other persons are influenced by the fact that they do not commit crimes. However, the fact is that each individual is for himself and that we are all different and that prison will affect someone in one way and another. There's a lot of people he won't affect at all, no matter what prison sentence they're convicted of. As I mentioned, our prisons are full. The conditions in which convicts support sentences do not meet the conditions provided for in EU countries. Also, in our prisons there is very little room for any education, and we are witnessing that prison instead of a educational institution becomes a kind of institution for training criminals, unfortunately largely. It says that prison, often, and if punishment is necessary, it in itself is not the best solution. What can also be respected about the bill is the consequences that arise in the judiciary. Amnesty changes the court's decisions, but it also sends a certain message to the courts to bless the court. This raises a logical question – why would one judge condemn a perpetrator who committed a minor crime for which he could be sentenced for three months, if another perpetrator is convicted of the same crime this year, he is released from prison. Then whoever's convicted this year will have a better position than who's going to be tried next year. And the one who is currently on a sentence is actually in a more convenient position than the one who will be sent to support the sentence only next year, and it will certainly affect and change judicial practice, because the courts will judge less to achieve some apparent equality. Therefore, amnesty must be the subject of a careful assessment. I'm not sure the government has considered all these consequences as a proponent of this law. Serbia is a witness and we are all witnesses that there is a completely mild criminal policy here, because it is not such a ruling coalition, which expresses its readiness and advocates the fight against corruption and crime, but should process those criminals who sit in its ranks and some respond to the word of the minister. This makes it possible for such a bill, delinquents, or offenders to be motivated. About the fact that a very large number of crimes never being lit up and the perpetrators being punished, I won't even talk about it at all, but all this is about the ineffectiveness of our system, both judicial and police. On the other hand, the courts and judges in the court proceedings have already questioned how much punishment should be imposed on the individual accused person and this investigation always goes double by the first-degree court and by the second-degree court. It is also known that the courts take into account all the expedient and difficult circumstances such as whether anyone has already been convicted, how hurt, how the work was done and how the defendant acted in the course of the proceedings, whether or not he was on the run, whether or not an APB was called. This is all in favour of the fact that amnesty is always adjudicated over court decisions, and the executive authority is changing judicial decisions by amnesty, and they are and should always be subject to careful consideration. For all these reasons, in fact, amnesty, as one general measure, should precisely be an exceptional measure as an object of careful judgment. For these reasons, I find this kind of government bill to be an exorbitant move, no matter how much it takes. It certainly isn't the best. What is personally controversial to me is that many of the penalties provided for in our country are not applied at all. So, let's say, Serbia has very little use for the possibility of socio-helpful work, which I think would be much smarter to apply instead of one general, according to this bill of collective amnesty and this, in fact, by applying a penalty such as social-helpful work to force convicts to do exactly what is useful both by society and by state, and that legal solutions should now go to that end. If the Republic of Serbia has a deficit in the budget and has a budget, then it is certain that a large number of convicts in our country can make savings if, for example, the laws motivate them to, for example. In a purely state-owned establishment, they also organize clean coasts and coasts of rivers, do other jobs for which the state normally separates extremely significant assets, and we all know about it, just shut up, and in return if such jobs really do, they should be allowed to reduce the penalty. It's not enough to just, unfortunately, amnesty a large number of prisoners. It is necessary to resuscitate the punishment, because every bill and if it is passed and becomes a law, the law should also send a certain message to the citizens, which is – if you are doing something useful by state and society alone, then you may be able to get out of prison early, and it seems to me that with such a government proposal for an amnesty law, that is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3106	Thank you. I'm sorry, I dropped by to ask if the committees in charge want a word? The next word comes from MP Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3107	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, here we have welcomed three months practically after the formation of the Government which is at the beginning of its mandate, even in public appearances, in what it is politically announcing, very focused on the issues of rights, justice, procedures, detention and prison, that you too come before this Parliament. For this reason, what I was going to say about the Amnesty Law itself will be partially extended, to everything that has been going on in the last months in the country, to all the reforms and changes that are announced in our legal and judicial system and to all the consequences of such action. Your argument here today was, as I would say, quite stick to the text that was offered as a formal explanation of the law. At one point you mentioned that your basic, so to speak, political or social motive that you used to propose such a law was that in the meantime some social circumstances changed, that sanctions enforcement systems and outside of this country changed, but you easily went beyond that and, in fact, the essence of the reasoning of the bill that should, as counterpart Batic correctly noted, have essentially changed the large number of court decisions that were made in previous years, raised the question of overcrowding the law on the one hand and on the other hand, the savings that would be achieved by the possible adoption of this law. I do not dispute that savings are important and I do not dispute that prisons in Serbia are overcrowded and that the conditions of enforcement of prison, or criminal sanctions are absolutely inadmissible and that they are not in line with accepted international, especially European standards and that this country has serious problems not only in its internal order but also in front of international authorities, because of this and in front of the Council of Europe committees and one part in front of the European Court of Human Rights. A savings that, I understand, in terms of current budget savings somewhere around a million or slightly more than a million euros is important to this country, but it cannot be the essence of this law. The Liberal Democratic Party will not vote in favour of the Amnesty Act because we think this is not a systemic solution, that another in a series of ad hoc attempts to achieve some legitimate political goals in an inadmissible way, that the implications of this law in public will be bad, that they will be harmful not only to you, your ministry and government, but generally by legal order, that for a day or two media will first of all have a story with many grounds for individual characteristic cases of people or convicts who will be released, or released on the basis of this law, and that they will talk about the real reform of our judicial system, the institution for the execution of sanctions, about what prison is served in our custody, what is the criminal proceedings for, which they serve as guarantees in criminal proceedings, that they will remain on the margins, and that they will again remember them at some point when you or Mr. Vlaricu said a word. This is a very important question. The Liberal Democratic Party is not directly interested in what has been happening in the last few months, but I ask you to answer my question – do you have the impression that almost senseless institutions of criminal and procedural law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, that today 95% of the people in this country, thanks to the politicians who are saying this, think that detention is a mandatory measure, that detention is necessary in criminal proceedings, that detention is actually a punishment rather than a security measure of the presence of the one against whom the proceedings are being conducted, or a measure that allows this procedure to be handled uninterrupted, etc. I'm not saying that that's the practice of presenting detention started with you. It's kind of a characteristic, part of the tradition in Serbia. In Serbia, more or less everyone thinks that a person who is not detained in custody or at some point was released from custody, that it was released, that it ended up, to say more freely, politically or otherwise a combination, that it would never be condemned, etc. What am I talking about? Your state secretary, judge or former judge Nikolic, spoke yesterday about an unacceptable situation. I think I'm going to repeat that exact wording, that it's inadmissible that there are so many years of detention that eventually end in a liberating verdict. I don't have anything to object to that statement, theoretically. I've practically got a lot of stuff. In a system that exists in Serbia, it will be understood as a message to judges that many more judgments are made in such proceedings, not a reminder of the system to be much more cautious when determining detention. Why is my anxiety deeper than hope? Because of what's been going on these past few weeks. You had an alarming public to unsuspecting proportions, for example in the Dulic case, and then you had an even greater consternation in the situation where the legal, legitimate authorities of this country acted as provided for by the law, as provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure, some other laws, estimated that the procedure could be handled uninterruptedly and let the person in question, i.e. enable him not to continue the proceedings pending in custody. You won't convince me yourself that you don't feel that this has caused any damage, that this has caused some kind of pressure on the judiciary and that it has further raised the scale that in any of the following cases the public or with great doubt sees the proceedings, especially for corruption and organised crime, that they are looking for political motives in them, and that in the decisions of the courts and other bodies also see some sort of political decision or unpreparedness, as it is usually said, that this political will that you talk about is being sent away so often. You've been in this whole situation for the last few weeks or the last few months, I mean, by your will, you've stayed on the sidelines of the event or you've kept away from those events that were most attractive. You stopped the situation when a practical attack on the prosecutor's authorities was launched, except at one point you yourself made very negative assessments of the work of the prosecutor's office in Serbia and thus sent a message that is very dangerous for this country and which largely devises not only the efforts you make through this law, but through the whole package of laws that you are obviously preparing. You, as far as I've seen, have launched an interesting and commendable action to put the drafts of the law or the first working version of the law on the website of your ministry, to open them to citizens' comments and to accept these comments to a good degree. I don't know if you did it for this law. Perhaps it would be good if you remained consistent until the end, so you could ask the citizens, or at least those who were particularly interested in what they thought about the fact that several thousand people would be released very quickly. On the other hand, it is very interesting to see the comments on these laws. You have no impression of the public, or the ambition of the public to modernise our system, to place the system of criminal acts differently and to place in one part and the system of criminal sanctions differently, that we have much more socially useful work to be talked about, that it is a classic, strict prison sentence most often seen as a need for imprisonment, that its scope be reduced, etc. You have such a disturbing public and expectations, so to speak, of cruelly exorcising justice, that there was an initiative here at some point, practically, to reintroduce the death penalty in the know-how process. When something like this happens, it is partly the responsibility of professors or teachers of law schools for what they think and do to their students, but many more politicians who create such an atmosphere in public. What I was also going to talk about in part is some kind of other impressions that you as a minister leave out in public. You're talking about regulating the legal system, modernising our criminal legislation, talking about prevention, talking about the need for all those who may be responsible for some of the crimes in a legal and fair criminal procedure. A few days ago, Minister, I was shocked to see a report from the 10th anniversary of the work of the Nomocanon Association at Law School. I was shocked when I realized that at the beginning of that meeting your greeting letter was read, that you were talking about congratulating the Jubilee of the Nomocanon Association, that you wanted success in the work, that you were expressing regret that you could not attend due to urgent obligations. It would have been great if it hadn't had its sequel, that at the meeting as one of the prominent officials, he had not spoken to the students, many professors of the Faculty of Law, some judges of the Constitutional Court about how Mr. Karadzic, who, once again, was accused of very serious crimes, of crimes for which you do not allow amnesty under this law that you propose today, expressed his desire to appear soon on the stands of "Nomokanon", that representatives of the Embassy of Russia and Belarus, who said that it was very difficult in this country to find a patriotic or national conscious association of students, etc. When you act when you propose laws like this, if you will, when you take on such a duty in those years, then you have to strictly keep in mind what kind of message you send to your actions. What happened before the day you took over the ministerial post was your private business. Since the end of July this year, everything you do has had some effect. It also has an effect on some people who may have been convicted because of such statements in the past by some other politicians, or excessive understanding of the patriotic exorcism of justice, have come before the court and been convicted, and now under this law they will be released. When you bring yourself into this context, expect that the public will be particularly interested, that they will especially monitor which persons will be released under this law, and that for days you will have stories in public about individual cases that have not only caused public attention in recent years, but have also done great damage in this country. I am not just speaking in a material sense, as in the case of Mr Kovacevic, but much more in terms of the reputation and position of this country, all of what you want to promote or highlight when you claim that you want Serbia to be Europeanised as soon as possible and become part of the family of modern European peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3108	Thank you. Mrs. Milekic, I'd like to ask you after you applied to this part of the discussion, I presume by chance, to disengage yourself. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3109	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on Amnesty, a law that knows many modern legislations, both in Europe and in the world, and it is known that in many countries these laws are passed in certain places by the highest legislative bodies of these countries, in which the time maintenance of certain persons who have been convicted is either reduced, or some persons who are due to enter, or are released immediately before. This law on amnesty is a general legal act and refers to all persons presently present in the maintenance of the sentence, or are convicted and waiting to leave the sentence. They're exactly tax-listed in the members of this law that this applies to. The objections referred to or already referred to on this bill that some persons will come under his attack, and some names known to the general public for these or those reasons cannot be flawed, or there can be no reason not to adopt this law in this legislative body. This law does not apply to individual cases, but refers to all convicts who, as I said, are either on a case-by-case basis or are about to go into detention, who fall under Articles 1, 2, 3. etc. This law. This law is by all standards of Europe and is also an act of mercy for the government, and not only the expression and political will of this country towards those persons who, in a certain age of life, have found themselves in such a situation that they have wronged certain laws and because they have sinned against the laws, have been sentenced to certain time sentences. This is no reason for this country not to be merciful to these persons and to enable them to either release them or to reduce them by a certain percentage of the time period, to give them the opportunity to return to society as soon as possible, to find themselves and to realize that at a certain point they were wrong and that the law had to, by the competent courts, be applied to them. Comments and criticisms that this application of the law will affect certain courts of general jurisdiction to be milder in giving sentences does not stand. All judges must professionally do their job, apply the law on the basis of relevant evidence put before the prosecution before the court, in front of an individual or in front of a larger person, and that, by assessing and assessing all that is said and proved at the trial, they determine a measure. So if this is the reason for the judges to be, to say, conditionally painful to the perpetrators of certain crimes, then we as a society don't know where we're going, I'd say. I am sure that a large part of the public, not only professional but also others, will accept this law of amnesty with great satisfaction, and in this way the government and the competent ministry of justice have shown that they also want to help those who at some point have their weaknesses or some other moment come under the influence of certain laws and have been sentenced to upholding the sentence. On the other hand, the fact is that at this point there is overcrowding in Serbian prisons, that there are many more convicts in supporting sentences than there are seats. In order for everyone to have certain conditions that modern society must provide to those persons who have sinned against the law... We see that this way the state will save about 800 million dinars. Should Serbia at this economic moment be able to close its eyes and easily throw away 800 million dinars that can be used for many other purposes? I'm going to take a trip and tell you that I've been through Serbia along and across, to see ladies and gentlemen, you critics of this amnesty law, in what conditions in certain elementary schools in the rural areas of the toilet, in what conditions in certain hospitals people welcome the last moments of their lives. It is wiser to focus these 800 million dinars, which we will save regardless of all the criticisms, and to improve the conditions of life and work both in children and in those most difficult patients. Therefore, that fact should not be negligible. It should not be negligible, nor should the fact that 1100 persons sentenced by the law's effect be freed from further detention and that around 2,500 convicts will be entitled to a reduction in fines. For all these and other reasons that I could talk about for a long time, but I don't want to take up time, the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law in principle and the law in general after the amendment discussion, and I'm sure our coalition partners, the SPS and the PUPS, with whom JS went to the elections in May this year, will also support this law, because we feel that we should give everyone another chance for any reason to come under the law. On the other hand, and I end up with that, it's right here that the convicts don't apply the law on amnesty, and that's good. We have all read the law and it is known which convicts cannot come under the law, or under the law of amnesty and for them amnesty does not apply. Amnesty in most cases applies to those people who, I say, for any reason have come under the influence of the law and are found at the maintenance of the sentence. According to these people and their families, this government, this assembly majority has shown and will show mercy and will show that it wants to give them another chance, so that they can be active participants in creating and building a new society in Serbia. For this reason, I say once again that the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law in principle and in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3110	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3111	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admit that I am a little caught up in focusing on the explanation, or the correct presentation of what was sent to the MPs without further explanations and part of the discussion because we all know that amnesty is an expression of political will. But in this case, not the political will understood as the party's will to lead politics, but to lead a political will to implement a full criminal and rehabilitation policy that is simply threatened and the accent is, in this sense, economically, not in terms of how much money the states will save. This isn't the first thing to be saved on. It's going to be the other way around. I'm asking you not to mention money in these situations. It's important to explain to each other why now that one has been extorted by technical law, it's this ten-point law, with only two types of 25 and 55% amnesty, brings, why can't it be easy to move in political discussions? I fully understand all the colleagues who have discussed and the need to expand the subject, so it is possible to say – yes, the laws are overbooked, but let's get to the more important. It's not possible for faces to get into detention. It is that for years the EU has been insisting on the views of the various bodies and organisations both on humanity and on the non-compliance of the current situation and on the inability to implement the right decisions, even if those for which it is not necessary for the laws on which Mrs Batic has, it seems to me, have appeared to me, as possible alternative solutions, which are in fact within the jurisdiction of the Criminal Sanctions Authority. So the inability to implement all of this is also the fundamental additional inhumaneness of this society, so let's get over it. My grudge is that you're not, and I have political understanding, and they've told us all what kind of data it is. I faced them in 2006 and then only because of political luxuriance in December, the need to benefit if you are not presently, the Assembly did not accept that the appeals that came from all sides of the international community were brought by one extremely simple technical law on amnesty, on amnesty, but by rule, if there are no strong reasons, that everyone voted for it, because there is no better term than the only one in charge of amnesty, and that is the National Assembly, that if it can adopt such technical acts unanimously, and that citizens often do not understand that the Assembly is the only authority for amnesty, for a general act, and once again only one institution, the institution of the President of the Republic. But in either case, and in the other case, the process of proposing, implementation does not go towards the executive authority, at least according to the Criminal Sanctions Authority. He's going to court and half the members of this bill are talking about it. Let's go back to what's important. You've got some information. I assume you've taken over from some service, and that data suggests that for the capacity of 7,500 convicts, we now have persons who support the sentence of around 11,000. I hope I've been very close to paraphrasing. So that doesn't mean it's evenly distributed. It does not mean that there are rooms or cells, or whatever anyone imagines, for seven people and that there are 11 people in them. No, this means that a whole series of people not covered by the prison sentence, but also the way in which the service and the full- capacity penalties take up what is called capacity, and in an even worse position, and that is why counterpart Batic pointed out it, not only does there not have a rehabilitation function, but prisons become a place of additional criminalisation often for small crimes, but because of the inability of adequate accommodation exposed to that type of environment. Let's say to the citizens something more important – is this really the kind of math that 30 convicts live in in one room? No, but as it becomes one piece of paper, and one is reality, different institutions, different administrations, different individuals find different ways to solve a situation so impossible, and in fact it's not true that all those convicted persons are constantly on duty, but often this is a place of corruption, it's a place to lose every trust in the legal system. Often these faces are released in different ways for the weekend, much more times than predicted, moving without any evidence of it, in an environment that is not aware of it. With this technical law, Đuric is right, there will certainly be a whole series of individual examples on which one general act is adopted. It's an integral part. That's what's visible, but it's crucial that such an extortioned act be created at least a prerequisite for the maintenance of prison sentences, again I only speak for those people to whom this law applies, so I think that citizens are aware of it, so no serious crimes, no persons who are convicted for the third time, is this guy, therefore, to create a precondition for not being a crime scene. Otherwise, what do you think the people in what position are those who have committed a little crime and adequately according to the law for it to be punished and for the purpose of socialization and rehabilitation when they return to society with this kind of experience, a society which, both innocent citizens, unjudged, in that sense, is only innocent because, as they say, nobody is innocent except when he sleeps, he has business, he has neither humanity nor justice. Of course, they are tempted to apply what they learned in previous years, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are really showing a lack of willingness to face the fact that the economic part, which is that there are not enough prisons, that there are not enough trained officials, there is not enough pay, there is not enough control, there is not enough separation between convicts by category, there are not convicted persons to support the sentence at times when, if I may say, the question of morality and the purpose of these sanctions. None of this is done because we haven't removed our finger to at least one precondition, which is to create at least these minimum economic conditions and a minimum legal basis. This exorcised act is nothing more than that, but I ask you that when we decide to vote, and certainly that this precondition will be voted by the MPs of the URS and I suppose, unless there is an individual reason for which, I think, someone has already declared, the largest number of MPs, independently, there is no policy here, I think this technical precondition will be established by the adoption of this law. We ask you to listen carefully to all the remarks made in the heat of discussion by previous colleagues, because this law is neither systemic nor basic, it is only a small cycle and creating space for the system laws that this assembly would bring and their adequate execution of the situation in this area to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3112	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3113	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, is very much spoken of today by this law. I've gotten the impression that the government is passing this law on amnesty for the reason it wants to save. We know that sometimes prisoners in prison did work. Now I'm talking to a colleague of mine who's from Sremska Mitrovica. We know there's a big prison there. We're talking about they were making trailers there, they had hotels, they were working farmland and vineyards, and in those times the prisons were just being held. Those times are over. That the Amnesty Act is being implemented in such an intention as this law provides, I don't think it's good. We have names that tomorrow or when the law comes into force will simply be released from prison, freed from guilt, and we don't know what they're going to do afterwards and how it's going to affect young generations, these extremist groups in different football groups and other groups. The Amnesty Act stipulates that around 3,600 of the 8,000 convicted will be covered. At this point, about 1,100 convicted persons would be fired. I would just like to say that it is most likely that this law will immediately release Andrija Draskovic, Miladin Kovacevic and Uroš Misic. These days we've read a lot about it in the papers and listening to the public talk about it, people are bitter about it. The question also arises – will this law amend judicial judgments? The question is also raised – will our courts be even more corrupt and will the judges at all deal with smaller or larger judgments? I'm sure they'll deal with the bigger ones, but they won't. The impression is that all those who will be convicted of these minor crimes - will be released. counterpart Batic spoke about what the law predicts. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm talking from that human impression that amnesty brings some kind of a forgiving act. Should we forgive in this human sense, also in a legal sense, a person who has committed a minor crime? I don't understand if the crime under which Miladin Kovacevic was convicted of inflicting severe bodily injuries for two years and three months? He's been in custody for three months now and he'll be released. He beat up a man. His qualification is that he inflicted severe physical injuries, but he will be released by that amnesty law. Also, Uros Misic was convicted of assaulting an official and received five-and-a-half years in prison. He's been in custody since 2007, serving his sentence, and he'll be released by amnesty. We know what was the reaction of the public, the fans who supported him, some part of the public who supported him and was against him being imprisoned and punished. We know about all those graphs that were written all over our cities. I think now that he's released, he's going to be euphoric when he gets out of prison, and I think to young generations, to young people who are kind of being told that that's not how it's supposed to be done, he's still strengthened by being able to do it in some games or on the street. It's classified as something easier or harder, but they won't be responsible for it again. The LSV parliamentary group will not, of course, support the law for the reason that the Amnesty Act should be designed differently, and no, once again I will say, that in amnesty, in forgiveness, is somehow spared from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3114	Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3115	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Mr Minister, honourable ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Bill of Amnesty always, on the one hand, cheers the prisoners, but in public challenges a lot of controversy and confrontations of arguments, both those who are in favour and those who are against such a law or who are against amnesty. And this law that we are discussing today, which is on the agenda, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will share the opinion not only of us here in the Assembly, the MPs who belong to the part of the government or the opposition, but also of those who are much more undermining than I am, which are criminal and legal theorists, people of profession and knowledge, but I believe that they will also divide the citizens of the Republic of Serbia into those who are and those who are against this law. Ladies and gentlemen, that's because amnesty is an exception to the rule that every criminal should and must be punished. Amnesty seems often stronger than the criminal law itself, from the case law itself and from the judgment itself. This is why amnesty in all modern societies and legal systems is actually the legal act of the highest legislative authority. What is it that most often complains about those who adopt such an act? The most common objections related to amnesty are the following. That it represents some kind of abuse of the principle of legality, that it even violates the system of justice and equality of citizens under the law and even that, as a result of amnesty, there may be serious disorders, not only in the area of criminal justice but also in society. Despite these objections, I think that amnesty is present in criminal law, but lawyers know better than I do, since the oldest times, and today it has its own modern criminal justice system in which it exists. We are used to having the most common amnesty and pardon for some holidays, referring to state events and major national holidays. The reason for this amnesty law is different. Unfortunately, he's not a candlestick, but he's extremely objective. The number of persons, we've heard, who are at a prison sentence is greater than the capacity available to our society and our country when it comes to institutions for the execution of office sanctions. For serious crimes, it is pending the execution of a prison sentence. On the other hand, our country is facing, should be very clear and open, with pressures, that is, the European Commission's demand for the conditions in prison to improve, which means either extending the accommodation capacity or reducing the number of prisoners. Regardless of the proposed law, I think this is the problem our country has to solve, and unfortunately big financial resources are needed. Do we at this point have these significant financial resources to improve prison conditions with one organisational and technical and some other things? Since 2000, we have passed several laws on amnesty in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you, the 2001 Republic Law was passed after the insurrection of prisoners in prisons that took place at the end of 2000. Then, in the then joint state with Montenegro, we had a federal law of 2002 concerning Albanian extremists. Then in 2006, we had the Law on Amnesty, which referred to military officials against whom criminal proceedings were conducted for avoiding military service during certain periods. So all these laws were the product, or product of a particular situation that was happening at that time in our society. In the legal theory of amnesty, it is said to represent so-called. a safety valve where other legal means could not be dealt with by a concrete criminal-law situation, and amnesty is resorted to as the only one at that time to a comprehensive solution. Amnesty also has its full meaning in political trials, when social and political changes are monitored over time, as well as judicial delusions, and often mistakes. Serbia no longer, fortunately, has no political prisoners, but as a result of decades-old economic sunflowers, due to the bombing and indeed great poverty of our citizens have increased the cases of those who are psychopathological and sociopathological disorders, which, unfortunately, lead to crime again. Prisons are full of convicts, both for easier and for serious crimes. So on that point, we find ourselves, when this area is on the agenda, in a very difficult situation. The exit is only one – the faster the economic recovery of our country and our society. The position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, whose member I am, not only because it is in the Social Democratic Party programme, but also because all Serbian citizens feel it, is that all efforts by the authorities to concentrate on restoring and developing the economy and efficient services so that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can work. It is known and proven that a man without a job is a man who loses confidence. He becomes a man who feels less valuable and thus slips into mental illness or crime. With that in mind, we had, let me remind you, in the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, which we innovated last year, a series of new major and very useful institutes that we introduced. I'll only mention one. The law stipulates that when leaving the prison sentence for each convict, an individual assistance programme is being prepared to facilitate his extradition to life outside the institution, or outside the prison institutions. The law stressed that the purpose of a prison sentence is to ensure that a convict during the execution of fines, through the application of appropriate programmes and actions, adopts socially acceptable values, in order to facilitate the inclusion in life conditions after the sentence has been committed, so that he does not commit crimes in the future. It's a finished quote. So, ladies and gentlemen, he insists on applying appropriate programmes of conduct during the very maintenance of the prison sentence, with the aim of adopting socially acceptable values. This must indeed be so, for being in prison alone is not enough to achieve the purpose of punishment. It is fair that criminal punishment is imposed on the perpetrator for this crime, but it must also be taken into account of this other very important aspect, which is the retraining and development, or morale of convicts who have not been able to bring from their families where they came from or from the environment in which they were found, but usually wear it since birth. A programme to help out of prison, i.e. from institutions for the execution of office sanctions, must have its real ambiance for execution, which is again often linked to working conditions, but also to perspective. When it comes to this bill of amnesty law, I will not repeat the proposed solutions he spoke of at the beginning of the minister. Of course, the solutions to this bill are in a certain sense discriminatory. I'm going to be open and very clear, it can be equated with the next one – are they in Article 2. The bill could have been another serious crime for which no amnesty was given? It is an open question for all of us. When you look at all the crimes in the Criminal Code, which are systematised in more than 20 areas, it can be noted that there are many serious crimes that are not excluded from this amnesty law. Discussable, according to me and us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, can also be proposed deadlines in the proposed law and which is on the agenda today, which is a 24-hour deadline for the head of the office to deliver a list of persons subject to amnesty, as well as a three-day deadline for the court to reach a solution on the application of amnesty. So, I believe that the opportunity is also that the parent committee at its session when discussing this law in particular, as I have seen from the assembly procedure in the procedure is about 23 amendments to the proposed law. I want to believe that even the applicants of the amendment together with the promoter, in this case with the Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will agree and find the best and most comprehensive solution to ensure that this law on amnesty has full meaning and that it does not cause any further doubt or some backgrounds that some want to impute, whether they are daily political or others. Finally, I would like to say something else that is very important to me because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Amnesty is an act of mercy, and it can't be conditioned by anything. It cannot even be recalled, but it should be noted, amnesty does not touch third party rights based on convictions. Third parties who are damaged by committing a crime have the right to claim compensation for the damage done. In this context, I would like to thank you for your attention, so I hope that, through the debate on amendments, we will include these proposed amendments and additions to be made, and we will also make our contribution on the parent board itself when it is discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3116	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3117	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we could hear in the debates of colleagues who spoke before me and arguments about and against the adoption of the Amnesty Law. It is true that this law is causing a certain concern and anxiety in the public and I would say that it is fully justified. But at the very beginning, I would like to repeat what my colleague Petrovic said from Unity Serbia and the SPS Parliament Club, as well as our coalition partners from Unity Serbia and PUPS, in principle accept this legislative proposal, and I will also say why. But we are ready for what my colleague Omerovic said for a quality debate in particular, we are ready to consider the amendments submitted to this legislative proposal just to remove the concerns and fears that exist today in public and are ready to accept, together with you, Mr Minister, those amendments that in many ways improve the quality of this legislative proposal, or the content of this legislative proposal. We have before us a bill on amnesty, a proposal that concerns the Ministry of Justice, a proposal that concerns and belongs to the area of justice, and that is why I want to say a few sentences at the very beginning. So it is an area which I would say at this point, bearing in mind the declared objectives and principles of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling coalition in Serbia, an area of exceptional importance, an exceptional importance for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. The area that depends on Serbia's many future, because it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia is determined and determined when it comes to European integration and on the path of European integration, one of the most important conditions is just the reform of the Serbian judiciary. The European Commission's report on reform and the situation in the Serbian judiciary is unfortunately not entirely positive. Also, it is clear that suggestions, the European Commission's proposals must and should be a course and a path for the Serbian judiciary to go in the coming period. What do we consider to be a parliamentary club that is extremely important at the moment when it comes to the Serbian judiciary? It is very important that you, Mr. Minister and the RES, first make and look at a realistic analysis of the situation in the Serbian judiciary today. That the real analysis of the situation is very open and clearly announced here within the republican parliament. It is important that, based on this realistic presentation and the realistic analysis of the situation in the Serbian judiciary, we very quickly define the strategy, as you have called, the justice reform strategy in Serbia and the new judicial reform action plan in Serbia. It is very important to see what it is that we, as MPs, representatives of the people, representatives of the highest legislative body, can do at this time to improve the situation in the area of justice in Serbia. So today we are talking about the Amnesty Law proposal and I do not dispute that this is an important legislative proposal, but at this point in Serbia, you will agree with me there are a number of open issues in the area of justice, concerning the areas of the judiciary, which require both an urgent reaction and a quick answer. At the outset, counterpart Jovanovic of the parliamentary club asked an extremely important question, so complaints from prosecutors and judges were adopted, and they must return to work at a certain time. As we could hear from the announcements from your statements, the schedule will be defined on the basis of a proposal for a new network of courts in Serbia. In this regard, we find it extremely important that we discuss this extremely important proposal for the Serbian judiciary here within the Republic's parliament as soon as possible. So, again, it is clear that the government's commitment when it comes to European integration, but independent of the European path that Serbia should go, some things in the area of justice and in other areas that are of paramount importance for Serbia, we should work, do, change not for the EU, but for ourselves, because of Serbia's citizens, because of Serbia. No one can say that Serbia does not need a modern and efficient judicial system. That Serbia needs an independent, professional and impartial judiciary. Of course, human rights and freedoms in Serbia depend on the situation in the Serbian judiciary. The degree of democratisation of a society is seen precisely at the reached level of judicial independence. We believe that we should work to strengthen the independence of judges and courts, that we should work on a more efficient judicial apparatus, i.e. a far more efficient operational judicial administration and strengthen the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors, because it is up to them that they are both guaranteed and independent and impartial. So, Serbia absolutely no one can get away from the EU, from Europe. Of course, that we will continue the agreement, dialogue with the European Commission, of course we will work on meeting the criteria, of course we will work on harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, of course we will work on accepting and implementing European values here in Serbia, because that is the interest of Serbia's citizens, because that is the interest of Serbia's citizens, but what is fundamentally important, regardless of the European pathway Serbia must and should go, is to restore citizens' confidence in the Serbian judiciary. That we have a judicial system in which Serbian citizens will believe and say that as a citizen of Serbia. It is, therefore, before us today, the bill on amnesty and how this legislative proposal is cited and how you said among other things in your opening statement, amnesty is an institute that recognises and foresees all modern criminal laws and it is an act of political will of state authorities. The persons that are covered, and you said that in the opening statement, amnesty can either be completely or partially released from the execution of the sentence. As a reason for the adoption of this legislative proposal in the light of this law, what we consider to be of paramount importance, which is whether it is appropriate or compatible with international standards already adopted through certain laws that we have adopted, as regards the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The situation, as we could hear from colleagues before me, and from you in the opening statement, about Serbian prisons, when it comes to capacities, unfortunately, is not at an envious level, it is extremely difficult. By adopting this legislative proposal, it wants to relieve capacity in Serbian prisons, and on the other hand, the position of convicted persons will be improved. This isn't about the amnesty of serious crimes. When it comes to amnesty, I want to say that it must not be so selective, it must be universal, and when we talk about amnesty, we must bear in mind the economic inability of the state that when it comes to building new prison facilities. We will accept, and in principle we support this legislative proposal, but we fully agree that this must not and should not be a practice, because it would send one encouraging message to all those potential perpetrators and those easiest crimes, and that should not be the goal of adopting and discussing this bill. Finally, in principle, the SPS Parliament Club supports this legislative proposal, and we are ready to discuss the amendments submitted by colleagues from other parliamentary groups, in order to make the quality of the proposed law more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3118	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3119	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, today we have a draft law on amnesty on the agenda. How important this law is and how essential it is, it also tells the fact that, after 11 years, since 2001, it has been on the agenda of parliament in this kind of general scope. I can understand some of the reasons why the Law on Amnesty is proposed, I can understand the reasons relating to prison facilities, the number of convicted persons found today in our prison institutions, I can understand the desire of the Ministry of Justice to improve the capacity of a prison facility and to contribute in the right sense to the resociation of the person who is in custody of the prison, so that they will be useful citizens of our country in the future, but I cannot understand the extent proposed by this Amnesty Act. Every minister of justice faces the initiatives of convicted people for amnesty, it's not an exceptional case of yours, and I've had that sort of thing multiple times, and previous justice ministers have also had such initiatives and pressures, and that's always going to be when the political situation changes or when the government changes in one country. Of course, it is up to every Justice Ministry or government to decide whether these pressures will fail or if they will be respected and if they do so, in what extent and in what way they will do so. As I said, I was thinking about some forms of amnesty myself, but when we met at the beginning of the mandate of the previous government with a specific analysis concerning criminal policy, that decision, at least on our part, could not have been made. For the sake of the public of Serbia and for the sake of your interest, for the sake of information, I will tell you that according to the data we did in 2007 and 2008, the analysis of prison sentences and general criminal policy analyses in Serbia, we have found that in five and a half years in Serbia 4.316 criminal proceedings have become obsolete and that the proceedings are being conducted for more than 15 years. We've established that 517 prison sentences have not been imposed. It also found in the analyses that over 10 years in the criminal area there are more, about 100 cases. It's also established, I'm only talking about criminal matter, since it's now an area of our interest, it's been found that in 2007, for example. The judges who tried in criminal proceedings met the 78% standard, which was not satisfactory. I will now move on to concrete things, for a crime, for unauthorized production, holding and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, between January 2004 and June 2007, 94% of prison sentences below the legal minimum for up to a year or at the limit of the legal minimum. Then, an analysis of the criminal policy for 2007 showed that for unauthorized production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, where two to 12 years have been threatened, courts have imposed 86% of prison sentences up to three years. When it comes to organized production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs by a number of people, who are excluded from this law on amnesty, I would also like to point out, courts have imposed a prison sentence even in 98% of cases at the limit of the legal minimum. Then, the criminal policy of courts for the crime of taking bribes, which was also excluded by this amnesty law, resulted in the most frequent sentence of prison under the legal minimum in 88% of cases. In 2007, only 11 convictions for abuse of the official position to be covered by this amnesty law were issued. These were the reasons why we didn't define ourselves to propose the Amnesty Act on such a general scale. It is undeniable that there are legitimate means and reasons for proposing the Law on Amnesty, it is in both the Constitution and the Criminal Law, and as you yourself said, there is no country that does not know the Amnesty Institute. But what kind of message is being sent when you propose the Amnesty Act in this general form? Are you consistent with the claims made that you want to fight organised crime, crime and corruption in general, if we release persons who are convicted of such crimes? I want to believe in the declared goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia to fight crime. I have confidence in what Minister Vukic is doing. We'll see if it's a cosmetic story or if we have a fundamental fight. For now, I want to believe. At the very least, it's something that represents a continuation of what we've been doing. I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, and it will certainly contribute to the citizens of Serbia living in a regulated country. In an exposé during the government's election, it was also found that the desire to establish a rule of law and rule of law is the basis for the creation of legal certainty and individuality, as well as for society as it promotes economic growth, investment and competitive business, and that is one of the basic preconditions of Serbia's economic, social and political development. It is also said that the Serbian government will fight a sharp fight against organised crime, and in co-operation with the democratic world, it will also fight against all forms of terrorism, as I said, the way in which the scope of the crimes, which are in front of us today, shows that you are inconsistencies and that you are in conflict with the declared objectives. It is also a question of how laws are passed, and I welcome the fact that you put members of the task force and the task force you set up for an amendment or for the adoption of new laws on the website of the Justice Ministry. I tried to do it myself, as much as possible and it's interesting to hear the comments that will be made on the text of the law, but also to look at the persons who will participate in these working groups. Unlike such an act, we did not have the opportunity to see on the Justice Ministry's website any comments, until it was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the light of the bill, more specifically, we learned it from newspapers when the government law was passed. You said the reason for law-making was a changed social, economic and political opportunity. In your presentation today, you left out political opportunities, you said economic and social. I can understand that, but you didn't explain it to the end. We understand what political opportunities have changed, but when I spoke about consistency a little while ago, it seems to me that exactly the parliamentary group from which you are from, in my pre-election campaign, and here I have informed us all together in the exposé, when the government of the Republic of Serbia was assembling, was a fight against crime. So, from this work today, about this bill of law and what you've been saying, like I said, I don't see consistency. The social and economic opportunities that changed could have been better explained. It seems to me that this law on amnesty also falls under some of the crimes that once belonged to the domain of military justice, which no longer have such meaning, social justification, to be used or to execute the prison sentences that were then imposed. In 2010, we had here the Law on Amnesty of Military Men, and that's exactly what it says about changed social circumstances. You also said that the reason for the law was also accepted international standards in the area of enforcement of sanctions. We haven't heard what international standards are, I assume you mean the introduction of a prison sentence through a ban on leaving the residence, or what is detached in the professional public – through electronic surveillance, and that you mean the penalties of work in the public interest. It's something that needs to be the future, something that needs to be strengthened, but I don't see what the connection between letting go of convicted persons and strengthening the sentence of public interest is. The law provides for the release of prison sentences of 25%, even those who did not go to prison. Those sentenced from three to six months are released 50% of the fines imposed, and those sentenced to three months are completely released from prison. When the law was presented, you were visiting a court, you said that this law on amnesty would not be, does not apply to the execution of serious crimes such as serious murders, full crime, organised crime, bribery, terrorism or persons convicted of unauthorized production and drug trafficking. The prime minister, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, said when the government's law was passed at a cabinet session that the law should release prisons, because a large number is waiting for the execution of fines and that it does not refer to serious crimes. As he said himself, he said that the purpose of this law is to dissipate capacity when it comes to prisons, but that does not mean amnesty for serious crimes. Your secretary of state yesterday in a statement he made to one television station, I quote: "All persons sentenced to 15 and less than five years in prison by the court are not individually assessed as serious crimes". So, I quote, "The persons who are sentenced to 15 years of age are not individually assessed as serious crimes." If that were not true, it was shown in today's debate, and it is seen through which faces the law will apply. I want to believe by the end that by adopting this law you will expand Article 2 and that it will also refer to some other persons who are convicted of serious crimes, for the crimes of murder, meaning, who have been proven guilty of murder, and I can freely say that they are murderers. The law refers to Andrija Draskovic, who was sentenced to nine years of law after 11 years and after five amendments to the court council. After this law is passed, he will be free immediately. The law refers to Sreten Jocic, was sentenced to 15 years in prison, and this bill will reduce his sentence by 25%. I can't see how in his case there'll be savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget, if he'll only come out in a few years with a reduced sentence under the amnesty law. The law refers to Uroš Misic, who was sentenced to five and a half years. He comes out immediately after the law is passed, and Serbian citizens need to know and see inconsistencies. We've recently had incidents in sports competitions. The bill did not leave out crimes for which persons were convicted due to incidents in sports competitions. We've had a couple of times in Parliament about that. I don't want to say in advance what happened recently, but the way you suggest that amnesty is sent to persons convicted of such crimes is a very confusing and contradictory message. The law refers to Luka Karadzic, sentenced to two and a half years in prison for killing a 21-year-old girl in a car accident. He did not take up the sentence, as I said in the previous discussion, this law also applies to persons who have not entered into detention. Recently, the court has suspended his sentence, and I'm not going to insinuate, I'm just pointing out the fact. The law also applies to persons involved in the murder of Bris Taton. The law refers to Stefan Karic as being sentenced to prison for one year for a car accident. The law also applies to persons involved in the murder of Zeljko Raznatovic Arkan, and that should be pointed out. The law also applies to persons convicted of abuse of official office. Today, we are talking about saving 127m euros, more than a million euros. The confiscation of property, by applying the property-absorbing law, is currently under the Directive on the management of the seized property, which is the information available to you, property worth over 350m euros. This law also covers criminal offences that could lead to the confiscation of property. One of them is abuse of official position. With that in mind, I have to go back to that consistency again. One of the first cases that was launched when this government was formed was the case against the responsible persons in "Yugormedia". You're sending confusing messages. Then you said that this law must be passed by emergency procedure, and as a reason for that, I quote again, because it could cause adverse consequences for the work of the state authorities. I'd like to hear what the adverse consequences are. I know it's written for a reason of urgency, but when you write such a serious law, then I want to hear what the adverse consequences are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3120	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, let's now, after all these discussions, let's finish any discussion on some things that we didn't even need to discuss. First, we heard that the law proposed by the Justice Department is very mild, very wide and what I know. I will remind the MPs and citizens that the last Amnesty Act was passed in 2001. I was just reading it as I listened to the discussion of respected predecessors. The law was passed at a time of government, if I am not mistaken, by late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and the law did not foresee any single exception to the application of amnesty. I said, almost no one. According to this law, the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice is much more stringent, there are a whole series of exceptions and a whole series of elements that should help those who did not deserve to go free or those who did not deserve to receive acts of state mercy, the act is not obtained. I will remind my colleagues and colleagues, the MPs who may have had the chance to vote for the Amnesty Act in 2001, that recently people have been released from prison, according to that law, so the 2001 law, has recently been released from prison before time by people such as Mustafa Limania, Nediro Sefedinia, Sheriff Abdiria, Sevdai Emurlahi and Eljhya Salihia. To remind me, these people who killed Serbs at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s in Kosovo, i.e. in the southern part of Serbia, Bujanovac, Medvedja and Presevo, were part of terrorist activity. It was done by law in 2001. These terrorists, Albanian terrorists were released a few days ago. They were applied to amnesty from 2001. Many resent Minister Selakovic and his team and say – the law that is now proposed is very broad, very mild. I remind you once again, that law is ten times sharper than the law that was passed in 2001, when we had the last amnesty. That's one. Two, to be clear to the citizens, those seconds when the law is passed will be released only by people who are sentenced to up to three months in prison. I repeat, three months in prison. What are those heavy criminals who have been convicted for two months and we're going to let them go now? These are people convicted of carrying a hunting rifle the wrong way, because if you keep it forward, then it's a crime, or if, God forbid, point accidentally at someone or for insult. So the second this law is passed, only people will be released for fines up to three months in prison. He who has been sentenced for three to six months will be halved. I don't understand the individuals who were in this debate, and I see in public, were bringing out something that should scare the citizens -- now the murderers will go free. That's not true. Those affected by amnesty, and I repeat, a circle of people who will not be affected by amnesty is very wide, and those affected by amnesty will be reduced by 25%, just as much as it was reduced under the law that was passed during Djindjic's 2001 government. In some ways, the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice has been kind of copied from that year 2001, only much better. I don't understand what we were supposed to do when this law was proposed? To say that the law applies to everything in general, and then to list the names of people the law will not apply to, and to say - cannot apply to Andrija Draskovic or cannot apply to Happy Jocic? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the methodology of writing a law that applies one to another, and the other to others is forbidden from the time of Nazism. That was the last time in Europe and in the world we had a chance to divide people or the law doesn't apply equally to everyone. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens are equal and all the laws will be applied, but that is why there are exceptions that the Ministry of Justice rightly introduced as part of a general prevention of fighting, particularly against organised crime and corruption. Let's agree on one more thing and make it clear to the citizens, those who gave and received will not be affected by amnesty unless they are more than 70 years old. It's an act of the State's mercy. It doesn't make sense that someone who's 80 years old keeps sitting in jail. One word, the Amnesty Act is a good law. The Law on Amnesty is a law that is fully in line with the aspirations set out in a regular report by the Citizens' Protectors for 2011, where it is explicitly said that Serbian prisons are overbooked, that the conditions are catastrophic. Let me remind you, it's a report bearing the date of March 15, 2012. So it was brought in at a time and based on conclusions while the former Justice Ministry was still in effect, let me say. That report shows the state of our prisons. There'd be a lot to read, but definitely, by liberating these 1,200 people, by immediate release when this law is passed, these 1,200 people who are sentenced to up to three months in prison, they're just going to reduce the crowd in prisons, we're going to reach such a European level. Citizens have no reason to be afraid that some criminals will be walking down the street now. I would like to remind you that in time, the Ministry of Justice has adopted a strategy to reduce the congestion of housing facilities in prisons for the execution of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Serbia between 2010 and 2015. Look at the coincidence, one of the methods to reduce the traffic in prisons, so to speak, is amnesty. Should an amnesty list not be applied to be expanded? Today I have heard very lively discussions of individual fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, but it is interesting that so far as the chairman of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs I have not received any amendment that possibly extends a number of criminal acts for which amnesty will not be applied. From this I conclude that some colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues of Papuga, who even left after the discussion, only came forward to be seen on television. They could have sent out the amendment, so we, along with the Honorable Minister and his team, would have studied it carefully. We have to come up with one fact, which is that this law is going to save a lot of money in the budget. An estimate of over 800 million dinars has already been made. Personally, I think that savings is much bigger. It's much bigger because if someone in prison is sentenced to two months, and very often people end up in prison for those two months because they don't have the money to pay a fine, so she's being replaced by a prison sentence, because such unfortunate people suffer and their family suffers. This is particularly true in the regular report of the Protectors of Citizens, that there is no accompanying service that would provide family, children, parents of those people who have been sentenced to, say, two, three months. So it's not just the instantaneous savings of 800-900 or how many million dinars in the budget thanks to this draft law of the Justice Ministry, savings are much higher through lost profits. Those people who come out right away, and these are those heavy criminals who have been convicted for two months, they will be able to return immediately to their families, return to their children, return to work so that they can support their loved ones. There's one more thing, and that's what I'd like to do. Someone here said today, and I totally agree with that, so it shouldn't become a practice of passing the Amnesty Act. I repeat, the Amnesty Act was last passed 11 years ago. As far as I know, there is no desire to bring it back in the next six, seven or eight years, as far as we expect the minister to be Mr Selakovic or one of his friends. Either way, the SNS will support this bill. I hope it will be supported and extended. What I want to ask in the end is that we don't spread senseless fear by certain opposition MPs, senseless fear among citizens, to talk about how tomorrow some murderers will walk the streets. Let's read the law. I am prepared to provide the law for my colleague Elena Papuga to be translated into another language, because she said six months ago that she had an alien language for her. (President: Please, Mr. Cvian. I quote a colleague. I'm sorry he's not here. I'm sorry. She said it was her Serbian foreign language. Anyway, thank you. I won't talk anymore. I suggest we all vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3122	We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The first candidate reported is Enis Imamovic. He's not in the O.R. as far as I can tell. The next reported is Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3123	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, at this time when justification for the adoption of many laws and for many government moves would come from what it would be for Serbian citizens to benefit from. Serbian citizens can benefit if those convicted of robbing the republican budget, those convicted of abuse of their official position, for criminal acts of corruption, if we found a way to get those funds that have been misused or who have illegally obtained them, if they were returned to the budget or returned to the citizens of Serbia. The past government has done something about it, but Serbian citizens should not finance their stay in prison, but should find a measure to return the money, but also to finance their own stay in one of the criminal institutions. The situation in Serbian prisons is extremely bad and it is an excuse for passing one of these laws. However, the tragic economic situation and the legacy of wars in the not so long past have given birth as a by-product of the criminalisation of society, so the issue of this law may be one of the most important issues. When we add to that the great influence of political parties, then we see that in the last 20 and over 20 years, the law has not been the same for everyone. Some are allowed to serve fines by wearing jewelry, and some are not allowed to have the same privilege for the same crimes. The Serbian Renewal Movement has experienced tragically in the 1990s and brutal experiences have been experienced in the trials. In front of justice only by fighting the president of the SPO and his family, the head of the DB, former head of the Republic of Serbia's DB and his accomplices in the crime at the Ibaric Master's Office and assassination in Budva were carried out. I think it's the only example of all the former communist countries, that the head of state terror, the head of state's security, was brought to justice and sentenced to prison, but I repeat, only by advocacy of the SPO, his president and his family. I expect that the rest of that criminal pyramid will be arrested and processed, and I expect that the government will be in the way of what it represents when it comes to fighting corruption. This is where we touch Article 2 of the Law, in which we speak who is not subject to amnesty. Mr. Cvian just explained this law on amnesty, he made a proposal. We have prepared an amendment that we can discuss, the Justice Committee can always decide that the amendment should be proposed to Parliament, to become an integral part of the law. It adds words after - against half-freedom, words are added - the crime of serious murder, Article 114 and the crime - kidnapping, Article 134 and the crime - extortion, Article 136. My colleague, vice president of the Parliament club, has tried to deliver this amendment, he has not been delivered, but I am telling you that there is a legal possibility that the Justice Committee will hold a session and that we should put this amendment in the draft of this law. In previous years, we have seen that fighting crime has often meant arresting professors, doctors, arresting municipal officials. So people who had to be in the same prison institutions or even in the same cells with the biggest criminals for acts of corruption of 100 euros. It's something that's unacceptable. During that time, by making alliances after "October 5th" with a new democratic elite, many of whom the entire Serbian public knows are guilty, that they robbed Serbia, were at large. It's selective justice and it's something that's unacceptable. That is, if the government decides to deal with people who came out of Milosevic's dress after October 5th deal with almost all or most political parties, if the government manages to deal with them, it would have great support in the SPO. Sasa Jankovic has found, and it is right that prisons are a place where living conditions are very bad, in which there are not enough employees or effective medical staff. I'm going to repeat once again that this is a great reason to pass one of these laws. But it's not just a measure. If we systematically solve problems, and this often happens to us in Serbia, because we like to partially pass laws, and the system works on the principle of connected courts, and when one hand is patched up, there is much more pressure in another segment. We offer no chance to people who are not criminals after serving prison sentences. That's the state's attitude towards these people that pushes them into crime again. There are many other problems that can be found in the press, but it will be difficult when one of the state officials talks about it. We in the previous period, apart from reading the press, have never heard of it officially having special conditions in prisons for those who have special relationships. We've got Hayat, we've got Hilton, and that professor, that doctor, and that community official who committed the crime of corruption, but I'm still repeating taking bribes that were a few tens of thousands of times smaller, and doing less crime than he who really deserved to have no supreme conditions of his stay in serving his sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3124	Mr. Jugovic, you've run out of time for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3125	I'll be done soon. I also have as head of Parliament's club extra time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3126	You can do it eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3127	I'll be done soon. Thus, unequal conditions are being created for all citizens of Serbia. Just before Mr Cvian spoke, we agree that all citizens of Serbia are equal before the law, therefore, equal before the law. I would ask the ministry to make sure that the conditions in the prisons are equal for everyone according to the degree of criminality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3128	Thank you. Just to let you know about Mr. Cvian's previous exposure. In the meantime, I have looked at the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 109, paragraph 1 of the 6th, saying that a reminder to the Messenger of the people is pronounced if one of the messengers is offended. In that sense, I give you a warning. We're moving on. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3129	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, seems to me that the discussions that have been led so far have somehow created confusion among citizens. I'll try in my discussion to sort of explain, at least from the point of view of the profession, given that he's in the profession. To explain what is very important, but only from the point of view of the provisions of the law on amnesty, without any populism or populist rhetoric. In particular, the reason for the law on amnesty comes down to the fact that in this year, which represents the year of consolidation in the judiciary, when we must have an absolute elite judiciary solely because of what the EU is asking us to do. In order to gain the status of an EU member, an integral part of the consolidation of the judiciary is this segment relating to the application of the law on amnesty, and thus repercussion to convicted persons. Therefore, the following fact must be taken into account. First, the EU prescribes a standard for convicted persons in terms of life and all aspects of resociation that are carried out over convicted persons in criminal and correctional institutions, or prisons. May the honourable minister and the citizens forgive me if I'm wrong, but one of those standards is that just one cell or one prison unit should have an area of eight to twelve square meters for one convicted person. I ask a question – which is the standard of our law, i.e. a criminal correctional institution or prison? I'm sure there's none. Also, none of our prisons, given the very difficult economic situation, which has been expressed in the minister's exposé, satisfys even those technical preconditions for normal life in criminal and recovery institutions and for adequate application of the resociation measures. Therefore, from this aspect, it is no doubt that the dismissal of a number of convicted persons to whom amnesty will be applied through the application of the Amnesty Act, while meeting the standard to which it absolutely must be pursued. On the other hand, I am starting with the fact that I personally experienced that in the Užica County Prison, which has a capacity of only 100 beds, is at certain times when solutions are made to determine detention of more than 200 detained persons. Is it possible, in any way, to ensure a normal life in such a criminal correctional institution, let alone what, when convicts instead of having basic conditions and hygiene and life, have to sleep on mattresses in a cell? These are facts that cannot be questioned. On the other hand, what has been promoted through discussions today, and what is certainly not true, that amnesty is allegedly privileged by convicted persons, is absolutely incorrect, because convicted persons have status and after the application of the Amnesty Act. They don't get rid of criminal responsibility. She's still being held in criminal records as criminally responsible. There is absolutely no single reason for this law to be seen as an objection in any way to changing the status of the convicted. The only thing that changes is that by applying the law, 25% of the suspended sentence is abolished and determines by a court solution what is the rest of the sentence that the convicted person will carry out in the course of his life in prison. Therefore, there is no single fear, no single reason for citizens to create one wrong picture, the wrong idea of being released. He is not released, but is released not from criminal responsibility, but from the part of the punishment he is sentenced to. What is also very important, and also, the fact that cannot be doubted is that no other measure is being taken, and especially not a substitutive measure against criminal sanctions, cannot be used to simultaneously achieve the goal achieved by applying the Law on Amnesty. Social and useful work is a measure, but it is individual and cannot be applied to this number of people, to this number of convicted persons to whom the Amnesty Act applies. What would be achieved with house arrest or a measure of general-use work? It would cover a very small number of persons, given the fact that the measure exists in legal life as well as through judicial decisions just recently, from a few years ago. Here, the law applies to persons whose crimes, where they appear as perpetrators, there are judicial decisions, whether they are on the basis of a sentence of imprisonment or will soon be found on the basis of these judicial decisions in support of a prison sentence. There is no need to repeat that amnesty is a universal legal institute, which dates back to, say, a predicate of Roman law and, in that sense, as a legal institute within the framework of legislation, i.e. legislation has its purpose, has its own meaning. However, the wrong interpretation here has repeatedly been stated that amnesty creates criminal policy. That's impossible. Amnesty cannot create a criminal policy. Criminal policy creates excessive court practice, and especially respecting the degree of social dangers of criminal acts which are the subject of criminal proceedings before courts. Therefore, amnesty as the creator of court practice must in no case create a picture of citizens that the following year, thanks to the application of the Amnesty Act, will come to a lesser judgment or so. On the contrary, whoever committed the crime, in case he repeats it, he becomes a rectinist, sometimes a special returnee. How, then, does amnesty affect his better judgment? On the contrary, he will be more strongly condemned. All these reasons I pointed out were that this law should be adopted and therefore my predecessors and my colleagues and deputy president of the parliamentary group, together with our coalition partners, made it clear that the SAA would support this law in principle and in particular, in general. What I think is important is to point out again because of the citizens and for the sake of the truth, this is an attempt for the state not only to dispel a huge pressure on the budget. At the same time, this is an attempt to bring order into prison. This is an attempt to illustrate prison conditions of life to what convicts deserve and there is no need to make any discrimination, as the principle of banning discrimination also applies to convicted persons. They have the exact same constitutional rights and the same freedoms as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS position remains clear. The Amnesty Act will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3130	Thank you. The next speaker is Natasa Micic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3131	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I think it is very important in this debate on the Amnesty Act to consider the reasons why the law is adopted and why haste, why without public debate and why an emergency procedure. As a reason for the adoption of this law, savings and reductions in prison capacity overcrowding are listed. It's not convincing enough for us, because if we take into account that certain savings are going to be made in the budget, and you said 127 million dinars, but at what cost can that savings cost us? What's the cost of that savings? First of all, this is a matter of legal certainty because judicial decisions are being changed. The other thing and the more dangerous and important thing is that this is how the safety and security of all citizens is threatened. Then I think, if you'd asked the citizens if they'd given up on saving, but at the expense of their own safety, I believe that the vast majority of citizens would actually be against this kind of savings. I'm saying this because if you're going to, and you're going to fire 3600 convicts of 8,000 as many as there are now, so almost half of them, we can get into a situation, because these convicts aren't prepared for rehabilitation, they haven't gone through any training or education, that they're going to repeat the crime. The second thing, the total number of convicts is known to be 50% already returned. The truth is, this law provides that those convicts who have been convicted three times already will not succumb, but there are many who have already been convicted twice. Secondly, the question arises, and here we have heard such claims, and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic said that the sowing law will not apply to convicts who have been sentenced for more than six months. The question arises – then why does the law even predict that these convicts will be released for a quarter of the sentence? There is a question of suspicion and reason to speculate in public what these names are and whether this will actually be a selective way of justice. The second reason you cited why this law is being adopted is because of the overburdening of the prison. I would just point out, and it seems to me that no one has mentioned this before, that there is a strategy in this country to reduce the burden of prison from 2010 to 2015 and that there are other ways to do so, and these ways are also ways to save in the budget, so it was good that the ministry was moving within that strategy, because it foresees as saving mechanisms and for reducing the burden of parole, as one of the very important institutes that is otherwise foreseen in our legislation, then, early discharge, trustee service, the introduction of judges to enforce criminal sanctions at all, and you absolutely did not move in these frameworks, but it was somehow the most convenient and convenient to grasp the Law of Amnesty that is not a new international standard at all. When we talk about international standards, it's exactly what I've set before. We come to the conclusion that this amnesty law has no merciful position at all, but has a political background. I also didn't hear anyone mention it, and I want to mention that the presidential candidate in the previous elections, the current president of the state, Tomislav Nikolic, has pledged to adopt the law on amnesty. That was the greatest benefit for convicts, so they rewarded it. They certainly rewarded Tomislav Nikolic with their votes, and then there was an unsatisfactory and dissatisfaction in prisons to the extent that it was printed at the beginning of this month, or the media were already reporting a possible rebellion at the Požarec Penal Institute. That's why, since you haven't been able to fulfill any other promises, nor to offer any economic solutions to the difficult problems in which the country is located, since you haven't yet managed to offer a platform for Kosovo, since you haven't even executed the department, even on the contrary, all the sessions we've had so far have actually come down to the ensuing of party personnel, to the extent that it even went to the usurpation of the authorities, that's what I mean by uniting the security service and setting up the governor... (President: Mrs. Micic, come back to the topic. Yes, this is the topic. So since you didn't have any other suggestions and the only promise you could make is what you promised the convicts, this amnesty law. Of course, the LDP won't vote for this law, because we don't see that there are any system solutions at all. Secondly, for reasons that no parole mechanism is used which is far better, because it predicts, just so you know, for convicts who have endured two-thirds of the fines, and previous measures, training and preparation for resociation. It's just that this institute isn't even being conducted because prisons can't confirm it. I think you should work harder on that in the future, prepare prisoners and use more parole institutes, and work more on resociation. So LDP will not vote for this law and we believe that behind this law is actually a political background and the fulfillment of one promise in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3132	The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3133	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, I believe that the government has made a kind of cut with this amnesty bill because amnesty refers to criminal acts that are less socially dangerous. It's the only thing the state can do right now. As the act of amnesty is an act of the mercy of the state, it is, in particular, a act of mercy against convicts who serve a sentence for easier crimes, which can carry out such a course of prevention and resociation. As my colleagues have said so far, it is those who have committed crimes for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for up to three months, or six months, respectively, for which such imprisonment has been imposed. As I come from Novi Sad, I will look back at the redundancy of the Novi Sad County Prison, which has a big problem, because there is room for about 300 people to maintain a prison sentence – both detainees and persons who are legally sentenced to convictions. There are currently about 450 of them in this prison, if I'm not mistaken, and at one point there were about 600 of them, which really engulfs the fundamental human rights of those who support the prison sentence. Clearly, the number of convicts is far greater than anticipated, and because of the overcrowding of the prison, a large number of these convicts sleep on the floor instead of in their beds. There is no possibility to separate minors from the minors, which is not at all in accordance with both domestic and international standards, and even in detention units there are persons who have already been convicted. In this way, they are denied certain rights that they would have as persons who are legally convicted and who do not have persons who are detained, because they support a prison sentence literally with detained persons, because of the lack of place in prisons. Given that Novi Sad County Prison is one of the largest prisons in Serbia and that it has problems like other prisons, it is clear that it is necessary to pass such a law to reduce overcrowding in prisons. It is also clear in this way that the state will achieve certain savings in the budget and that there are long-term financial effects, as well as that it will be able to ensure that those who are convicted and who remain in prison have greater human rights that truly deserve even though they are convicted. For this reason, I call upon all MPs to support this law on amnesty proposed by the Government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3134	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3135	The Honorable President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in a situation where we have a general increase in crime almost in all areas, the Government of the Republic of Serbia took at the practical first session of the autumn session, as if the first law it passed, or which it gave to this parliament for the vote was the Law on Amnesty, a law with 10 members. A law we could call the law on general amnesty. Several colleagues and colleagues have deceived the public by claiming that this law covers only convicts of prison sentences up to three months and prison sentences of up to six months. This law has a general amnesty provision. Article 1 of this law states – they are freed from the execution of 25% of the sentence imposed on persons who are legally convicted of criminal acts prescribed by the law of the Republic of Serbia or have been prescribed by laws that have ceased to apply, that I do not read further this position. In the next position, the position of the 2nd member is said that persons who, on the day of entry into force of this law, are first sentenced to three months in prison are released from the execution of a prison sentence in general, and those who were first sentenced to three to six months in prison on the day of entry into force of this law are released from the execution of 50% of a certain sentence in prison. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues speak only of attitude 2 and not of attitude 1 that practically predicts amnesty, i.e. the release of one quarter of the sentence of all prisoners who are sentenced to prison sentences up to 30 years. Article 2 provides exceptions, but not as the colleague mentioned earlier, for sentences of prisons that are less socially dangerous. Are colleagues or colleagues less socially dangerous murders, brutal murders, assault on officials, criminal acts of serious bodily injuries, etc., not to mention? All these crimes are covered by this amnesty law, and Serbian citizens should know that. The reason for this law is that the act of amnesty is an act of the political will of the highest authorities of the state, the republican assembly, or the republican government. A particular reason for amnesty is the fact that the situation of convicted persons has changed for reasons of changing social, economic and political opportunities. What social, economic and political opportunities have changed here doesn't say. I can tell, and some data is very relevant. Social opportunities have changed that citizens today live worse than they did three months ago, that product prices are higher, that they barely make ends meet, that it seems to have become socially justified to commit crimes and could be social and economic reasons. Political opportunities have changed. A new SNS, SPS and regional party coalition, Rasim Ljajic, came to power. These are the new political frameworks. However, one of the political frameworks is certainly what mycic said, which is that the current president of the Republic of Serbia promised in the pre-election campaign amnesty for prisoners, for persons convicted of criminal acts, and they knew they appreciated it. In prison institutions, presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic received 78.81% of the votes, and presidential candidate Boris Tadic received 16.64%. (Employees are getting out of place. ) Therefore, the difference between one candidate and another was 3,845 votes, which did not have a little impact on the election results. Chairman, I'm going to ask you to provide smooth work, or that I can continue speaking without a pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3136	Please ensure the work of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3137	In this way, the conditions have been met that the government and this parliament today, in a warm manner, I am talking about the ruling coalition, are talking about the will to amnesty of persons convicted of criminal acts. On the other hand, it should not be ignored that this law does not exclude persons who have committed criminal acts of assault on officials, crimes of murder and serious murder, not even criminal acts of robbery. And they are covered by this law with amnesty. If we think about humanity to people who are in prisons, and we should think about and treat them humanely and live in humane conditions, should we also think about families of those who have lost sons or daughters, persons who have become severely disabled, whether we should think about the official individuals who have survived severe physical injuries, who have been killed, by persons who deserve the punishment that you today generously release from freedom, or are going to let them very soon be free of this law. The aim of criminal sanctions is to punish and it is certainly learned in the first year of law school. Rudolph Jhering says among other things that the objective of law and the name of law deserve only those standards set by a society that has a duress behind them or since the state owns a monopoly on coercion. Professor Kezler says that it is considered an effective application and that it is an important mark of the entire legal order, while it is important for the legal norm to contain sanctions as an essential normative element. On the other hand, there are other theorists, according to all of whom are proponents of this law and who say and develop the view that law is not important for an organised state, but for coercion as a spontaneous response of people to violations of legal rules and social values. These theorists, among them the most famous Leon Diggie is essentially advocating and opposing the existence of the state, are already for people to take matters into their own hands through their moral standards. So, first year law students learn what sanctions mean and what it means to apply sanctions in a society that in some way dominates our society by violating legal standards and dominates the rise in crime. What message are we giving this law? We give a message to potential criminals that it is socially justified to steal, kidnap, commit crimes, criminal acts, and that they will one day be an amnesty law amnesty. We give a message to people who are now convicted of criminal acts and who support the sentence that it is socially justified that they committed crimes and that the state thus repays them by letting them go free. What kind of message we give to those who have suffered the consequences of these crimes, I have already spoken of. What kind of message is this to the police and police authorities? What is this message to police officers who are on the street every day protecting citizens from offenders? Is it a message to them that we release 1,100 people who are convicted of criminal acts so that they will take care of them tomorrow and put their lives at risk of being released again? What is this message to families of people who care about the safety of us, our families and citizens of Serbia? What is this message to victims who have been, in some way, victims of criminal acts for these persons who are now on trial? On the loose, if this law is passed, in five, six days, 1,100 people convicted of various crimes will be found. Mrs. Malovic said some of those names. It does not apply to a timid man in his midst, but I would not dare continue to list all those names of a person who will be found at large in the next six, seven days. It's about very dangerous criminals. You're saying that the reason for this bill is the lack of capacity and poor conditions in prisons. I agree. But by that principle, we could say that some other institutions have very poor housing capacity, that the conditions in them are at the edge of humanity. For professional reasons, I was visiting a psychiatric hospital in Kovin, a psychiatric hospital in Vrsac, and believe me, I'm still carrying traumas from these visits. It couldn't be called a hospital, it could be called a collection center. There people live in very difficult conditions, with the danger of a roof, or ceiling falling on their heads, with very bad conditions where 30 to 40 protégés are located in one room. Is there something you should do with those facilities? What are we supposed to do with schools where kids don't have toilets? Should we close those schools and send the kids home? Is that a way to resolve that question? Has anyone mentioned standards in prison institutions, is that the only place we need to fix standards and do we need to fix standards there first, and then look back at all the other standards that our people live in? On the other hand, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have not consulted the professional public, you have not held public debates over this law. That's what you can see, it's written very unprofessionally and it's hard to follow. I made a proposal for an amendment, but that law is very difficult to fix. However, we have one problem, we are at risk so-called. White Schengen. In the light of the law, it is said that you did not comply with this law with European laws because there are no laws in this area that could bring this law into line. However, something else is said, this law has not been translated into any of the world's, or European languages and has not been consulted on this law. This means that you have not consulted experts or EU political representatives. Does this mean, gentlemen, that you will also compromise the white Schengen with this law, that, such as Romania, you will allow people from prison institutions, without being able to socialise in Serbia, because you did not allow them to do so, to go after bread, as it is said, or to continue the work they started before going to prison? Perhaps you should have consulted European partners. The prime minister said yesterday that this is the government that has the best possible relations with the EU since Serbia started two hundred years ago. Do you, Mr. Selakovic, take responsibility for yourself, since you are the legislator of this law, that if a person is found at large in six, seven days and commits a crime, say, robbery, murder or some other crime? You're the proposer of this law along with the government. You take great responsibility for yourself. This is a law that is very serious. This is a law that is socially dangerous for many reasons. You smile and talk to your colleagues on the side, and you don't listen to what I'm saying. You've had very serious criticism about this law. You didn't look back at them. So it's about a law of general amnesty with a few exceptions. You're letting a person who committed the most serious crimes for the reason you promised it in the presidential and parliamentary campaign. You put a very serious responsibility on yourself. In the end, given the difficult position of the people in those prisons, I have proposed that the amendment should include those who were first sentenced to prison for up to three months, to be forgiven 50% of the sentence and to be released from 50% of the sentence by persons convicted up to six months. Everything else, gentlemen, is a very serious risk. This is one of the laws that you first put into procedure, with no idea what to do next. The second law on the agenda today was proposed by our MP Srdjan Mikovic. The third law on the agenda was proposed by the previous government. Where are your laws? Your first law was about the National Bank, which you started to share this country... (President: Back on topic, please. I'm done. I call on the government to withdraw this law from the procedure and open a public debate on this law in order to come to a solution that would satisfy citizens, where they would ensure the safety of citizens, and where they would in some way create better conditions for those who are serving the prison sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3138	The word is Mr. Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Article 107(2), which states: "A meeting of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP to the other People's Parliament." Mr. Vesenovic, a previous speaker, addressed the MPs directly. You didn't warn him. Please don't apply such a strategy. What I must note is that from the beginning of the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a nonstop attempt is made to create an ambiance of fear, panic, vote such a government, no one in the world will support us, they will reintroduce sanctions, they will cause chaos in Serbia again. We can see something like that didn't happen. During the elections and changes to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the vote by Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, there was also a dose of fear, there will be a course like this, there will be a course like this, all banks will withdraw. What was the course at the time of Ms. Jorgenka Tabakovic's vote, and what is the course now? Smaller, of course, more stable. Now we come back to fear and panic, people being released who are convicted of crimes of murder and so on. No, he won't. Don't deceive the public. On the other hand, I will remind you only, and I will speak to you later in the speech, in parallel to the law that was passed in 2001. It was brought by the same DS. What is then said – extremely persons legally convicted of the crime of murder, kidnapping, rape, etc. 15% amnesty. You didn't mind something like that back then. Don't talk about fear, don't talk about panic. This government of the Republic of Serbia has legal solutions that it proposes, which it gives in the assembly procedure and are working and bringing to the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3140	I ask the People's MPs that if they report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, they use that time to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3141	I'm not going to look back on this part that was past the agenda, I'm going to talk only about the part that applies to this law and the fact that my colleague didn't tell the truth. So, this law will release persons who have committed murder, murder, serious murder, robbery, unless they've been sentenced to prison for over 30 years. Mr. Selakovic, please come in and clear the law we're adopting. I have a text in front of me saying in Article 1 that all persons in prison are released 25% and in Article 2 they are granted exceptions. What we just heard has no exceptions. Please explain to the citizens. A colleague just said she would be released only by persons who have been sentenced to jail for up to three or six months. Obviously, we don't read the same law. Please tell us if we have two different texts in the procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3142	The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3143	I think we're reading the same law, but some things we don't want to see. I'm not a professional lawyer, I'm a degree in machine engineer, and don't let me tell you about the law, but Article 1 paragraph 2 says - the first time that this law goes into effect is the first time that they've been sentenced to prison for up to three months is being released from the sentence of prison in general. What kind of murder was prosecuted and punished by three months, in which state? Not in Serbia. Read carefully, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3144	Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3145	I'm really sorry, but this is a serious misunderstanding. Do you not have attitude 1, you only have attitude 2? The first law states - they are released from the execution of 25% of the sentence imposed on persons who have been convicted of criminal offences prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia or have been prescribed by the laws which have ceased to apply, which were found on the day of the entry into force of this law to support prisons in the Republic of Serbia or have not yet entered into prisons or whose transfer for the purpose of maintaining that sentence abroad. So, all the crimes. Please, don't think of misunderstandings above all for people watching this transmission. Mr. Selakovic, please tell your colleague he's wrong. All persons are released from prison by up to 25%. It's for a 30-year prison sentence of 7.5 years. If they've served part of the sentence, they'll go free. She mentioned a colleague to whom the faces were involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3146	The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3147	I'm going to ask you one more time to take a look at Article 1 paragraph 4. The law on amnesty passed among the first, if not the first law passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the fifth meeting. It was published on 14 February 2001, and parliament was established on 22 January 2001. So he was among the first or first law to be passed in this House. He says: "Amnesty is exempt from the face of justice, convicted of a crime of promise or an anti-natural fornication against an powerless face and promises or an anti-natural fornication with a person who has not turned 14 and persons who are more than three times justly convicted of crimes." It's the only people who are at that moment, and the government's headquarters and that government was DS, who were excluded from amnesty. On the other hand, this bill of amnesty, see Article 2 for which persons do not apply. I have read clearly both Article 1 and Article 2 of the first article, only persons sentenced to jail for up to three months will be automatically released. For those who are not part of Article 2, the penalty is reduced, but does not mean that it will go free, does not mean that it will be free, does not mean that you need to sow fear and panic. I'll ask you one more question. Whose justice did these persons condemn to such, now your little prison sentences? The reformed judiciary you've reformed, so now we're putting up with pucks from the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3148	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3149	I won't answer my word again after my colleague has confirmed that I'm right. He's talking about the law 10 years ago or I don't know how many years ago, and I'm talking about a law that's on the agenda today. I repeat once again that under this law, the persons who have committed and committed the most serious crimes will come out. Since the minister is not being advertised, since his colleague admitted that I was right, not explicitly, but implicitly, by comparing one law and another, I really think it's all clear. Today, however, it seems to me that some media have deceived the public today when they said that this amnesty will only be covered by persons sentenced to prison sentences of up to three months or six months. No, all faces up to 30 years will be covered, with certain exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3150	Thank you. The word is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3151	Article 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. I think the president is respected with all the respect of fellow Babic, and I think you have to make sure that you have given a few words for the replica of the MP, which is absolutely not mentioned in any way, and in this way you have opened one debate in a really inappropriate way for this home. Please, take care of these things and not make any warnings later and act in real time, if possible. Also, I think that here all the arguments made by the MPs of the DS have been made with the intention of avoiding ambiguity, as always. A person who is primarily in charge of answering and clarifying if we are wrong about what Article 1 is and what is Article 2 whether Luka Bojovic will be amnested, whether Andrija Draskovic will be amnested, that can be answered by Minister Selakovic. Let the man say when he's already here, let me get this straight. If it can't be clarified, then we'll have to go through the amendments, and in that sense we appeal to the majority to solve this matter through the amendment process. To make exceptions wider, and to be able to ensure this society that justice is not only punishment, it is justice and destimulation of a new act of crime. If people will know that there will always be amnesty when "our" comes to power, then you know what this will mean for this society? It's cancer. I think with all due respect to my colleagues from the majority and above all Minister Selakovic, I think it's high time for you to address and clarify this situation, so we don't wander here and know which faces it refers to, and I'm asking you specifically for these big names. Although in the forest there are also those who are less famous, less passionately attractive, but also how dangerous for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3152	Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Babic has received his word in accordance with Article 104, paragraph 2, so on behalf of the parliamentary group, he is the deputy head of the parliamentary group and therefore I gave him my word, he has the right to reply. Veroljub Arsic, head of the parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our people have one saying, "It's free to whisper with deafness and to wink at a dead end," don't let anyone find themselves offended, but it seems to me here that the desire to read the law in part is to create some wrong picture of the law itself. I can't do that without getting involved on that side. So they're giving exceptions to which this law doesn't apply, crimes that are the most severe where persons are sentenced to over 30 years in prison. Under current legal regulations, it could be a single murder. Often for one murder, people are sentenced for 40 years. So the killers aren't quite so amnesty with this law? So now I don't list who all the exceptions are. Article 3 is said to be 25% if he has been sentenced to prison. Today, courts are released without law, without a special law on persons who have endured three-quarters of the prison sentence. By, say, taking one of the wardens of the prison away from that place because someone wrote a complaint, and the tutor pleaded by it, and the warden sent it to the competent court. That's exactly why you changed Brajevic. Because the one who wrote the complaint was a political convict. That's how you changed the wardens and the judges. When it comes to whether or not a face will be amnesty more than once, it can't. This is regulated by Article 5. It writes well – there are exceptions to a face that has already enjoyed the benefits of an earlier amnesty. Why are we getting into that part of the story now? I'd like a more constructive view in the sense that if there was anything to be found from an exception to amnesty, rather than a casual attack on one member of the law regardless of what it says in the next members.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3154	Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours in order to be effective in the work of the National Assembly, that is, because of the need for acts from the agenda of the session to be brought in as soon as possible. At the same time, I'd like to inform you that I'm setting a break for work by 3:10 a.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3155	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3156	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about this law, it is for me primarily the result of a responsible government policy, which wants to create a legal state, and if we see the adoption of this law as one set of activities that want to consistently divide power into executive, legislative and judicial, if we look at the context of government policy, which wants to create an independent judiciary, which wants to create in the right way a new network of courts in Serbia that meets the needs of Serbian citizens, then in this context, I observe and adopt this law that cares and the human rights of those we sometimes say that they may not need to have human rights. The fact that someone is convicted and is on the basis of legal punishment does not say that we have excluded him from society, does not say, at least that our legislation observes, that this person is losing all the elements of personality, but our legislation, and in that sense, European and I see the handle of this law with European integration, and that it is talking about the need for respect for human rights of persons who are in support of prison sentences. We have to look at it through another perspective. It's no problem that you inmates don't create conditions in prison to live in as many squares as it guarantees its resociation. The problem is if, in the room for the reception of your family members, or for visits, you do not create conditions that he can give the one hour guaranteed to him or whatever, to have the most direct contact with his family, instead of in one room, where others cannot hear him, to achieve in one room where others hear him, and then there is no negative consequences only for convicts, but also for his family members and children. So, by this law, I see the creation of conditions for achieving an elementary human right, for maintaining a family, and in these conditions in the way that it guarantees today's law. Is that what the new government is to blame? I'm sure he didn't. Is the problem that this is about to come out before the judge solves someone on the loose, I think it's a classic example of disrespect for human rights and that's actually the difference between two logics. So between the logic of the new government for which all people are the same and who does not pass the law to measure one individual, because that individual is the most important in Serbia and he has to stay in prison or he has to get out of prison, so if we name him and condemn him in law, and not in court judgment, then that's okay. This government looks at all citizens the same way and we cannot talk in the Serbian Parliament about individuals who will leave before the time of freedom, but as defined in the court's ruling. By extracting from the context of certain individuals, we violate their human rights, creating one problem in the country where we place people in relation to others, which is the characteristic of non-democratic regimes, because they tend to make laws towards an individual, to deal with individual political opponents, to deal with individuals who threaten them, and the characteristic of democratic regimes is not to see individuals when they adopt these laws, but rather to pass laws as to whether these laws correspond to the philosophy of that society and to assess the social dangers at that time. I think that the demarcation that has been carried out, which is affected by the measures of this law and which is being fined, is being freed from the punishment itself, that it is very well measured there and that it follows the philosophy of this government that in the election campaign said it is against corruption, that it is for the protection of fundamental rights, and therefore all the crimes that are practically being attacked and families, where it is being placed on the market of drugs or intoxicating funds, that this government has made a very good decision and that at this point, these crimes cannot be, or the perpetrators of these crimes, cannot be persons who are going to be reduced by 25% or others, as it is said. On the other hand, I think it's fair, because socially endangered categories are the categories of people who don't have the money to pay, so they get convicted, because of some banal offense on the moon, or for three months, and those who are full of money, who are in the corruption process, those who have earned a lot of money, they don't mind being mistreated on the street, they're not the problem with paying the fines, and they're never going to get prosecuted. So, through that element, I'm looking at the fact that it's only for that three-month sentence, which the court has ruled that they're being released from supporting these prison sentences. To go back to another dilemma, I don't think it's correct to deceive the public and say that the billmaker didn't decide two things. People are being freed from the full execution of those who have been punished for up to three months, and the reduction of someone's sentence by 25%, so the circumstances will get out, maybe eight months earlier, that man would go free eight months later and there's still the possibility that he's committing a crime. If someone is sentenced to nine years, then he comes out after seven years of freedom, which we did for seven years, because she needs the minister to ask, I mean the minister of justice, the question to myself, whose supervision that man was in prison for seven years, and what they were doing with him if they hadn't raised him at that time. You can't re-evaluate him in the last year of his sentence, and that's the key thing. The lawyers know that Serbia is not in the right of those countries whose legislation wants to repress those who have committed crimes, that otherwise we want to contribute to the resociation of these people. I really don't see anything to do with the visa regime, with asylum, because you know very well, we today have a problem with fake asylum seekers that are at stake in socially endangered asylum-seeking categories. However, those who have high sentences are far from socially endangered, especially those you mentioned in your presentations. These are people who have money and who certainly won't go to asylum because of it, and it really has nothing to do with the visa regime. I can't help but mention something about the president of the state. I don't see anything undemocratic or anything illegal. If someone in the election campaign, as part of their programme, has come up with something and won the citizens' trust in it, so why don't you do it? Why would they argue with him? Why would they argue then to the Serbian Parliament that something the presidential candidate talked about in the election campaign got the support of the people, now they're changing it for me, they say -- no, no, the people didn't hear it. We insult that people, insult the citizens of Serbia. Serbia's citizens know exactly what Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic said in his campaign. They certainly know why they trusted this ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament. In that sense, I would ask, in the end, all the political parties that we really try today, if we have concrete ideas for amending the law, that these ideas and still, while possibly the committee or the minister can agree on it, and that there really isn't a topic on which we're going to get petty political points. Not to be a subject where we are going to be politically involved, but to show unity here, like some issues, like the Ombudsman or others, because it's a large number of citizens, the state and the serious issues that we are considering, just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3157	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. I don't see it. Is it there? It's not. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3158	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, including on this subject, obviously yes, and if there is one law here that tries with the lowest social layers, citizens who have come into a position to answer for certain crimes, for which the lowest penalties are imposed, that politicians, to threaten, blackmail or make a mistake in front of citizens. The former regime's representatives are obviously trying to scare the citizens of Serbia again with some extreme discussions, that we are passing some laws, while at the same time making an illusion that will show some kind of connection between us who belong to a ruling coalition with some kind of criminal group or interests. The bottom line of the proposal is that there are numerous facts, that this is more than 2,000 people who are just because they participated in petty thefts, forest thefts, petty frauds, people who have been fined 30, 60 and more thousands of dinars, came into the situation because of the inability to pay financial debts to the state, to volunteer and to postpone their fines. It's cheaper to serve three months in prison than to pay a fine because it's gone. We have been witnessing that in the previous period, many state institutions have outdone themselves in how to be tough on citizens. It is particularly interesting, for example, that the municipal police have recently, in addition to twisting their hands, imposed penalties because someone, or suggests sentence, parked on the green surface, or because they sell agricultural products in an unauthorized place, etc., which they carried out in front of the store, and they were not allowed to do, etc., penalties are proposed. Penalties are from five, 15, 20, 30 and more thousands. So we get into a situation where over 2,000 people are likely to go to jail because they don't have that 20, 30, or more thousands of dinars to pay that fine. We didn't put this people in a position not to have these 20,000, 30,000 dinars. We didn't even force this people to deal with petty forest thieves in winter, because there's no wood for heating, to deal with petty theft of agricultural products, because there's nothing to eat, to deal with petty fraud, etc. It's just that seeing this amnesty is about covering the widest part of the population and trying to eliminate one stain standing on the burden and state, and we shouldn't leave it on our citizens' cheeks and get it off our faces and let people wait calmly this fall. I just think that there are, above all, the motives of the promoter, where the key and the bill is, that these lowest social layers, that citizens who have no money and people who have been given fines of one, two or three months, are simply amnesty and that they are able to live normally as civilized citizens. Although President Nikolic thought of something, he certainly meant these lower social layers, people who have been brought to poverty, poverty, and have been brought here because numerous privatisations have failed in this country, which these days we cannot listen to the story of millions of euros that someone has taken for commission here or there, because we cannot determine who those persons are to face justice and to answer for serious crimes. In a wealthy society, which the DS allegedly advocated in the previous period, we came to a gray zone. When we call for amnesty, we invite only because we think that we should help our fellow citizens, that they do not have that mark on their cheeks because they have lived their lives honestly, lived honestly and honestly with their children, family, friends, and godfathers who have fulfilled all the obligations that belong to this society. Today, we need to put a mark on them because they couldn't pay the municipal cops some punishment, because they were forced to do a small noise to keep their children warm, because they committed a car accident because they were driving a used car, because they didn't have the money to register a motor vehicle, etc. There's so much of this that I can speak for an hour, and you've tied yourself here to just a few facts and a few elements, trying to replace this whole amnesty story with one thesis and try to sow among the citizens, again, a certain kind of unrest. It is clear that this Law on Amnesty should be supported, that it should allow citizens to get out of prison for these petty crimes and to return to normal life, and these remarks of yours should not even be answered because they obviously have no meaning and do not mean anything serious to our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3159	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing this bill all day, and we have heard what the MPs of the government, the ruling parties think and what the constructive opposition thinks. So it would be good to listen a little to the proposals and arguments of this constructive opposition, since many arguments have been made why there is a huge problem in this bill. Of course, LDP cannot support this proposal of the Amnesty Act. I will give you a few reasons, and if before, Mr Đuric and Mrs Micic made a statement about it and completely, normally, I support all the arguments they spoke of. So if we're going to start with amnesty, we have to point out that this is about a act of mercy. In the light of this bill, we can only find that it is an act of political will. So somehow that mercy is lost from sight, and simply in reason it is gone, and humanism and how it should be, and even in the functioning of the authorities of the state. So, generally against amnesty, we have nothing. This people really need to be given even in this way an act of mercy, given what he suffered during the 1990s, when these very political parties, which today in any form in power and which form a coalition in power, led this country, managed it, and brought us into this position where we are. I wouldn't even talk about that 2001 Amnesty Act, since it's a long story told, but I just have to look at why this amnesty law is being passed. That's where two things are listed. First, it is about some socio-political and economic change and, secondly, we should meet certain European standards on the functioning of our prison institutions. So, first of all, we haven't figured out what this is about when it comes to socio-economic and political change. Only if you think it's come to change so drastically in a policy that is dominant in this country, which I don't think should be a reason to pass one law on amnesty, only if that policy has predicted and promised certain persons that sooner or later they will be drastically reduced to prison sentences. As for standard, I agree that we have inhumane conditions in prisons. We have about 12,000 prisoners here, and the capacity of the prison is about seven-seven-and-a-half thousand. It's really too much. You simply cannot with one saving and one story about wanting to empty the prisons, i.e. what will enable those who remain to have a more humane treatment, i.e. to fill the budget, or money that you will save from this amnesty, to focus on other purposes. It's not a way for you to get into that policy of treating criminal sanctions. It's a far more complex question that simply overcomes this kind of amnesty that you're proposing by this bill. You're simply losing sight of the social danger that must be that line of guidance around which you have to decide who to amnesty and who not. In this law, even this problem is not what it says, but the problem is what is missing, or what is not written and does not exist in the bill. What is it that doesn't say? Well, it doesn't say anything that should be added to exceptions that might in some way improve this attitude 1. The bill of law, which and how it is an obstacle that this act of mercy is indeed shown as mercy. We have no objection to amnesty of these prisoners, convicted persons with these small prison sentences, because there is also a social danger small, but in attitude 1, it is assumed that the social danger is significantly greater, because there is a prison sentence much greater than the one covered by the amnesty laid down in Article 2. So, if so, this means that the legislator was also involved in social dangers, but simply that social danger is minimalized by the fact that certain crimes are not involved in these exceptions, even though it is mentioned here that amnesty will not apply to terrorism, it will not apply to organised crime, etc. There is no mention that it will not refer to those crimes that have elements of violence. This country has gone through such a difficult period of its existence in which violence has been too much. There's too much violence today. You simply must not leave out this element of violence when you talk about humanism, when you talk about mercy, because the state will only function by protecting those who suffer violence, and in some ways it will take care of those who are convicted of this particular violence by humanizing relationships, or humanizing the execution of criminal sanctions. Obviously, this bill of law does not fulfill any of these functions. There's still time, the Justice and Administration Committee, and how it can intervene listening to all the arguments that have been made here. By the opposition, these arguments are consistent, clear and very correct and objective and are only in the function of improving the law and improving the solutions that could be implemented in this law on amnesty. So, listening to all this, they could take certain steps and amend this bill to the amendments to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Therefore, the responsibility cannot be imposed on the MPs, because, you will allow, this law, like others, has arrived in an emergency procedure, so when certain concerns about urgency were heard, the procedure has changed more quickly, so perhaps someone has missed a deadline to submit the amendment. This is a parliament and a debate in this Parliament should play that role to shed light on a legislative proposal from all corners and if you get such good recommendations and good arguments, regardless of what you represent a total majority in this House and a total majority in the Committee on Justice, you can also ease those arguments in that sense to amend this bill. So in this issue and in this composition of this bill, we do not want to participate. Therefore, the LDP cannot support this law, although we are both for mercy and for humanism and for the change of the complete system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, which is otherwise the existing law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions contained in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3161	Thank you very much. Your time is up. The People's MP Vladimir Cvian signed up for it. Excuse me, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3162	I'm reporting as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's rediscover a few elements and answer some questions. First of all, I've had the opportunity to hear more than one mention of individual names that will be affected by this amnesty law, which I'm glad my colleague didn't mention now, because it's not the point of this law, unlike pardon, pardon is an individual act. The pardon is brought by the president of the state, brought by the former president, and brought by the current president, where individual names are determined. The Amnesty Act, like any other law, must apply to each one in the same way. In that context, I'm really glad that this discussion goes one way that doesn't scare the citizens without reason for some criminals, murderers, or what I know. That's not true. This is a law that will apply equally to all and the law as such will be applied equally to all who fall under the very amnesty. As for the fact that it honors the Ministry of Justice through this law that some people will be reduced to punishment, I must remind myself that already in the current Code of Criminal Procedure, there is an institution of probation after two-thirds of the fines of all convicts, provided that they are well ruled, that they have passed a resocialisation programme, that they have behaved properly and that educators give their positive stance. In one word, I want to inform the citizens and to explain to the citizens and to colleagues and colleagues who are not lawyers, that the possibility of going out with one-third of the fine already exists in the applicable legislation. So this law is nothing new on this matter, theoretically, but in practice it is very poorly applied. As for the amendments themselves and the criticism of the constructive opposition, as said earlier, I have really carefully reviewed and read and watched all the documentation that goes with this law. At this moment, there are seven amendments that will be discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Justice. In these seven amendments, there is not one single amendment submitted by the opposition that we could at least discuss. I thank my colleague Batic, she drew attention to the fact that they had submitted the amendment, unfortunately with a technical delay. I think it's very correct on our part, we got these amendments and we'll take them into consideration. Still, it's not enough just to criticize the law, let's at least have some text to get, to see what that law could be promoted to. Finally, much is said about some political background of the passage of the Amnesty Act. In our country, this isn't the first time we've faced amnesia. We had a 2001 law, we had a Law on Amnesty of persons convicted of crimes against the Army in 2006, that famous amnesty for those who refused to serve a military term. Many parties promised better conditions in the pre-election campaign in prisons, even promising amnesty. As a lawyer, I had a chance to meet people in prisons, they don't know politics, they don't know political parties. They're all in the same, bad situation because of the poor state of prison. This amnesty also affects people who are in prison, who are members of the ruling coalition, as well as members of opposition parties. I've known a lot of people like that, and I've always represented them. I don't think there's any need to do any politicizing of the amnesty itself. It's clear why amnesty is brought. It's brought in because prisons are overcrowded, it's brought in because it doesn't make sense that people who are sentenced to two months in prison, better go home and work, stay with the family. Of course, we need to explain to the citizens that all the consequences of the conviction remain. Therefore, it remains in the record that someone was convicted, regardless of amnesty, is still obliged to pay compensation for damages if, for example, he is in prison for not paying child support or for a crime of traffic safety. In one word, there is no need, and I especially want to point out to the citizens that we are experiencing amnesty as a political act. This act equally affects all people in prisons who meet the conditions, regardless of their political belongings. I would not agree with the views expressed that the amnesty, as proposed, does not take into account the criminal acts with the elements of violence. (President: I beg you – time. What time? It's unlimited. (President: I beg you, just a moment to clarify. Here, I'm done. Amnesty will not hit people convicted of committing domestic violence, which is very important to emphasize. So that's the answer to that finding that the government didn't take care of criminal acts with elements of violence. So domestic violence will not be affected by amnesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3163	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have injured Article 27, which you are obliged to take care of in session order, or to apply Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The injury occurred just before, thanks to Article 106, I received a word from you. The authorised representative and president of the parliamentary group have the right to receive a word in the session we are currently in, so when a debate is under way, only if they receive a replica. If the earlier session was such that you allowed the authorized representative of the replica, then again, Article 27 was injured, because you didn't take care of the order at the session, ensuring that the time for the replica lasted for two minutes. I ask you, by pleading for the right and calling for the knowledge of the right, that we do not violate so clearly, quite simply, a provision that is quite simple to find in Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If we do not know what part of the session is in progress, then we can easily ask that if the course of the session is in which MPs have the right to speak, then the authorised representatives and president of the parliamentary group do not have the right to debate. He has the right to replicate the President's discretionary decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3165	Unfortunately, you're right, I'm aware of that. I'll try to make it right in the future if you accept my apology. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3166	As an authorised promoter, since you gave Mr. Cvian a word, then I expect you to give me the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3167	Please, in order not to be in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure again, you must plead on what basis. Is it a replica or is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that's all I'm asking of you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3168	Chairman, you must have the same relationship with everyone. You hurt the Rules of Procedure and gave the word to a person who was unable to use the word according to the Rules of Procedure. Since you did it once, you have to stick to that behavior during the entire session. Therefore, if you have given Mr. Cvian your word as an authorised promoter, then you are obliged to give me, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3169	Please, Mrs. Malovic, the man in life is always wrong, but if he sees a mistake, it doesn't mean that he should go further in error. So we won't argue, I'll give you my word, you have the right to a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3170	Mr Cvian told reporters in the Serbian Parliament today – during the session, we had the opportunity to hear that certain MPs of the opposition lie to the citizens by soon getting some people, such as Andrija Draskovic, out of prison. That's a lie. I want to discuss now whether the Amnesty Act, if adopted in this form, will apply to the case of Andrija Draskovic or not? If I have deceived the citizens of Serbia, reading the consistent bill on amnesty that lies before us today, I will apologize. If I'm not, then either Mr. Cvian should apologize or an SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3171	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get two things straight first. The 96th member to whom she called speaks about the possibility of sharing the exposure in two parts of the authorised representative, and I reported twice in that capacity. Now I'm reporting as a replica, because I'm directly mentioned. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not Andrija Draskovic's lawyer, I know who did, and you should ask them if he's going to come out right now when the amnesty law is passed or he's going to come out in a little while? It's definitely creating an atmosphere of lies and panic by certain MPs of the opposition, I don't know why this colleague found herself, because I didn't mention her at any point, that the atmosphere of panic and fear that some murderer and others would get out of prison. I'm behind it, and I'll never apologize. Is it true, mathematically, and who exactly amnesty will apply to, in that sense, that tomorrow will come out either in two months or three, I don't know, unless I'm a lawyer for concrete people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3173	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3174	Replica. Decidence has been said to be a lie that Andrija Draskovic will come out. Now we hear it's not and that the bill applies to that case. I expect Mr Cvian to apologize not to me, but to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3175	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nejo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3176	Article 103. Mr. Chairman, a multiple injured Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, primarily by the fact that when co-worker Malovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, she did not specifically call on which member and which provision of the Rules of Procedure and which is why she is asking to plead according to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. After that, there goes the next provision, if it isn't, then it's next. There was absolutely a breach of the Rules of Procedure in that we left the topic. Here the topic is neither Andrija Draskovic nor anything related to Andrija Draskovic, but the provisions of the Amnesty Act apply. I ask you, as chairman, to compare this assembly with the agenda and to continue on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3177	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: In this second part no doubt yes. ) National MP Gordana Komic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3178	In order to apply for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3179	We're going back to work. National MP Dragan Shormaz is not here. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3180	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision on amnesty is always one of the most important moments in the work and debate of each parliament, and so is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is always a pleasure to take part in this kind of act of mercy. However, the disputed provisions of the proposed law deny me that satisfaction. I will try, as soon as possible, to expose what is controversial in this law, which cannot be covered by demagogy or pulsism, not covered by insults, not covered by anything, since all information on the applied Amnesty Act will be made available to the public. This is the nature of other rules relating to the Law on Amnesty, and we will all be able to see who was able to use some right under the future Amnesty Act in one of the 10 members of this law. What's the issue first? The first thing that is controversial and which distinguishes this bill from the 2006 law in the Republic Assembly, from the 2002 law in the SRJ Assembly and the 2001 law, is that all crimes for which amnesty is prescribed remain in force. You must decide, when we criticise previous laws, what is the basis for which we criticise them. The laws on amnesty that were previously passed were amnesty for crimes that no longer existed in the Criminal Law, so banning political association, freedom of speech, verbal delinquency and so on, as well as amnesty based on the obvious, that people who did not want to participate in wars could freely return to Serbia's territory without being stopped at the border, detained, etc. So, I have a big first dispute with the provision that all the crimes for which amnesty is prescribed remain in force, that there is no announcement, at least not in the procedure of the National Assembly, that even one of the crimes for which the amnesty is pronounced will be decided by this assembly out of force, abolished or not being able to be applied. What does that mean? This basically means that if the text of the law of this kind is applied on November 5th, that the perpetrators of the crimes to which they are sentenced to any sentence of imprisonment will be free. This means, at the same time, that if anyone commits the same crime in the same conditions on 8 November, that the police are obliged to establish, that they are obliged to present evidence to the prosecutor and that the prosecution and the judiciary are obliged that whoever committed such a crime should be punished for this crime, regardless of whether it is easier, harder or whatever it is qualified to do. It has been mentioned that there are people in our prisons who serve time for crimes that no longer exist. That doesn't require the law on amnesty. For this, there are other institutes in our legal system that have already been mentioned, as there is no need to be an explanation that simply doesn't hold water and I see that during the debate fortunately, savings, because 1,100 prisoners immediately, and 3,600 when they complete their reduction of sentence will not be in prisons. You know, if the argument is savings, why don't you suggest we let them all go? Do you know how much that's just saving? If I'm allowed to make a cynical remark, otherwise unacceptable, but it's rather rude to explain amnesty by saving themselves on the residence of people who have been convicted for some crimes, and those crimes remain in force. Secondly, it just doesn't suit the truth. If the 187 million figures that will be saved immediately, or 800 million, are mentioned, it is forgotten that the one affected by the amnesty decisions is coming out and that there is also a demand for money from the budget. If he's fortunately employed or has his farm property or some environment in which he can return, the problem is smaller. If it isn't, then you have to say why there won't be an individual program that also costs for people who have a reduced sentence or are completely released from serving a sentence. For acts of murder, easier murder, for what is claimed here to be the subject of amnesty, for what is claimed to be the currently mentioned detainees and persons at the maintenance of the sentence will not be released, then I ask you that if the minister of justice has such information, that he clearly and aloud declares it to the National Assembly. If the strategy is to leave one serious topic to the MPs for interpretations, then it is an additional deep suspicion that there are really good intentions for proposing these laws or worse, that there is knowledge of the consequences of the application of this law. So, an ethical dilemma about when you have to decide whether to vote for some law or not is easy when you're against it. The easiest thing to decide is that you are against some provision, some law, because it is your opinion that you have no responsibility for the consequences that the law will produce. But this law, regardless of the ease of an ethical dilemma to be against, raises concerns and does not facilitate ethical dilemmas between those who will vote for this law and us who will be against it, because all of this law will produce consequences. Insufficiently well-founded, it leaves doubts as to why it is proposed for the release of the person, and the acts for which they are condemned remain in force. We've all been easily taught to defend a man in a trial, not an act, and it's always good to remember when we want to qualify for what's who and where he's done. Unfortunately, if this is how it stays in the proposed text, you defend the actions that they have done by proposing this law. We've had opportunities here to listen that poor people had to commit crimes. Do we understand what kind of message we're sending to the public, do we have any understanding for the poor people who have committed crimes? What is a small step from there, from justifying in the name of political will everything that comes to your mind, that this is a law that is passed by act of political will? Of course, all the laws are acts of political will, but there are differences in the laws where political will is used in accordance with the institution in which it exists, in accordance with the procedures in the institution in which it exists and when political will is misused, it is our right to express our suspicion that by applying this law on amnesty as it is, it can happen. The second thing is to determine a linear, or percentage reduction in fines. All arguments fall into the water here that by applying the Law on Amnesty in such a text, only those who have been sentenced to three or six months will be released, so by half, by reducing and punishing them, the decision comes to be released. All concerned with the percentage reduction of the fine will be released. Someone who has committed an act that does not cover exceptions and is sentenced to 12 years and is eight, will be free, or will not be subject to the law. Neither of us is good from our point of view, especially not good if we leave ourselves subject to suspicion. Not enough individuals shall be considered damaged during the conduct of the crimes for which amnesty is pronounced, regardless of the severity of the offence prescribed by this amnesty to reduce the sentence or be completely released from punishment. These people are in the same environment as the unsub. I know the damages are still in place, but the message is that the perpetrator of the crime and that you are a damaged person will not be in prison for six years but four years. Why? It's up to us who have an ethical dilemma or we don't, to vote yes or no and to explain it to the citizens. Amnestys are also subject to criminal acts which are not otherwise covered by amnesty if they have at the time of adoption of this law 70 years. It is explained – it is an act of humanity. And once again, such a person who has committed a crime and which is not covered by criminal law will be free, if sentenced to a sentence of 12 or 15 years, at the time of the entry into force of the Amnesty Act has already eight or ten, depending on how convicted he is. It's a serious crime, and that unsub is back in his midst. It is up to us to explain to the public what the real reason is for these persons to be released from further serving. For reasons of the law, it remains to be repeated, as the minister of justice said in the opening statement, that the economic situation has changed, and that this is a normal reason to propose the Amnesty Act. If that is motive and reason, then there would have to be a law on amnesty that removes any suspicion of who is actually on the list of persons who will be amnesty covered. I repeat, it's a data that will be available to everyone. If one of the institutions refuses, then the trustee will ask for information and we will all have to know without personal data, but who is covered by amnesty. The numbers. The first announcements and explanations speak of 8,000. Today we have heard that the capacity is 7.5 thousand, that in fact there are 11,375 people who are supposed to serve the penalty or have not started serving the penalty and that 1,100 of them will go free immediately, and the other 3,600, of course, when the percentage reduction of the sentence is completed, but will certainly be at large. So that there is no dilemma as to why the Law on Amnesty is an important topic for every country, because it is a question of human rights, because we are all interested in not giving up human rights or people who are obliged to serve a prison sentence for a committed and proven crime, but we are also all obliged to see the total impact that will be applied to the environment where we live. The desire to justify amnesty is that there will be more room in prisons, I think it is primarily offensive to people who live in prisons. It is offensive to the idea of why someone is sentenced to prison and is offensive to all of us who read all that is available to us, we have enough information and we want justice and debate on the consequences of ultimately producing the application of the Amnesty Act if there is no amendment to the amendments that exist in the procedure or amendment of the Committee. An additional suspicion that no discussion has developed, especially by presenting and explaining the law of Mr. Minister, is what kind of message are we sending to the police all together? Whether we vote for it or not, whether we're against it or not, we share the consequences together. The debate in this home serves to make us all understand it very well. Once the question is raised that it's a completely hypothetical case, but possibly, that someone who's going to get out of prison who's already committed part of a serious murder or a serious attack, in a time when he's supposed to be in prison, but with amnesty at large, he's committing a new crime, we'll all have an obligation to answer how it happened. I'm not someone who's going to say it's the minister's fault or the ruling majority or the opposition, someone who's going to say -- let's open a dialogue about it, let's make sure it doesn't happen, let's make sure that no one who's had murders, violent behavior, this kind of, serious physical injury, is not covered by amnesty. Then we all have reason to wait more quietly for the law to be applied. The second message we send, we send to the police, to the D.A., and to the judiciary. There is always a known easy conflict between the police and the judiciary, where the police say – we arrest them, we investigate them, and you let them go. What will the judge do that four months after the amnesty law comes into force, gets court proceedings with the same criminal act for which someone was released? We don't have a legal precedent situation, so we can call it, but what kind of message did we send to that judge? What's the general message? That they should judge the lesser penalties, because there is no room in prisons, that they should reduce the number of investigations because they are difficult times, so people commit crimes, that they should neglect that there are victims and damaged, or that they need to be together with us, knowing how difficult the context in which we live is – historical, economic and political, to make sure that the prison system is really reformed, because the basis for that exists. This is my request and my proposal to all of you, as at the National Assembly College a few weeks ago, I had a proposal and I could organise a roundtable and public hearing in the Serbian Parliament, to talk fundamentally because we have a common interest in amnesty being, because amnesty is an act of mercy, but we have no common interest in staying and one doubt as to the reasons why this law before us in this form is proposed and whether or not any worse consequences of the act of mercy may be produced. If we make that clear, it will be good for everyone, and especially for the citizens of Serbia whom we will prove that we are working together in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3181	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3182	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that today in this bill of amnesty there are no people who are in a certain way sentenced to life imprisonment with hard work. Here we are fighting over people who are one way or another amnesty. You're sure you're wondering what kind of convict that is and what kind of prison is that I'm talking about? I'll tell you right away. These are convicts who are sentenced without a court of law to the most severe sentence of life in prison who endure hard work. They're peasant farmers. These are the people who, despite their hard work, the dog has nothing to bite. These are the people you're going to meet now that you're on your way home at dusk returning from hard work on tractors you're going to wonder if they're older tractors or older peasants. They're the ones who don't have the right to go to jail for the weekend. They're the ones who can't leave their stops, their fields, their plums. It requires daily attention and daily work. It's the kind of convict who doesn't have the right to vacation, vacation, wintering, because they have to be absolutely committed to their work. They're those convicts who have something to eat today, and they're the ones who've been sowing wheat almost without any state support for the last 30 years, and they're doing it so that tomorrow we can have something to feed the people after a very difficult dry year. No one will speak of this kind of prisoner, and there are tens of thousands of them, hundreds of thousands who will never experience any amnesty, nor seek it. They're the ones who work even with a minus and cheaper than these convicts who have some kind of salary when they work in prison. They kill themselves by working with no pay and no demand, and they don't want amnesty, they just want us to leave them alone to work. The revenue they make is less than the income of classic convicts, and unfortunately for us, they are joined by workers who are the former regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3183	Listen to me. I think you've moved away from the darkness. The problem is both drought and hunger. It's all a problem. Please return to the topic. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3184	I don't think I'm far from the subject, but here's my apologies. I think I've been obliged to pay a few sentences and a little attention to that kind of unorthodox prison. Now I'm going to say about amnesty. Amnesty is forgiveness. In addition to amnesty, there was also an ablation. In addition to these two types of mercy, there is also mercy. Since I've been with the candidate for President of the Republic for a few days, it's the current President of the Republic, I'll tell you that he was talking about this kind of pardon when he was elected President of the Republic. As far as I know, he's decorated a journalist who, if the regime hadn't changed, would have gone to prison for sure. So much for these alleged unholy intentions of the President of the Republic. As far as prison results are concerned, it only shows the true state of the matter of the election results. You could have stolen a little in prison. They could not be delivered by the regime packages of life supplies. This is my answer to your questions – how in prisons so much difference in favour of today's President of the Republic? You see, in the election and those in prison, they steal less than the party of the former regime. The Amnesty Act, which was mentioned here, was mainly about the 2001 law. Let me remind you, in 2001, a federal law on amnesty was passed, which was a little bit spoken of here. As in juvie 2002, a new Law on Amnesty was passed at the time when the party of the former regime, which is the most objective here, almost held the entire power. So, there's been a lot of complaints here, so let's see. One of the objections is that the number of amnesty is large, so let me try to explain that it's not exactly that. In 2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the law on February 14th and amnested 4,200 prisoners of 6,000, almost 70%. The lady who complained about the high percentage should remember that she voted precisely to amnesty nearly 70% of the prisoners. The number of unamnested was only 1,800. Today, out of 8,000 prisoners, 3,600 or slightly less than 45% have been amnested, almost twice as much as what you say as an example of general amnesty, and the number of unamnested persons under this law is as opposed to 1,800 is 4,400 if some amendments do not change that number. This is about some social danger, legal uncertainty, threatened security of the citizens because of the actions that these persons are convicted of. Let's see who you amnested in 2001 at the National Assembly. I was an MP in this assembly, and I remember well that we have put in major amendments to increase the number of unamnested persons and then the government has submitted an amendment, believe me, that amnesty is not covered by pedophiles. It was so wide-ranging that we had to put a lot of effort into not accidentally being amnesty paedophiles, i.e. those who promised minors or persons up to 14 years old, as I recall these amendments. Let's see the law of 2001 and 2002. In that law, the only unamnested faces besides paedophiles were triple perpetrators or returnees to prison. So much for that, the dangers and responsibilities that you're feeling right now. Let's see the federal law in 2001 and 2002. You have amnested persons who have been accused or convicted of criminal acts - for armed rebellion, for calling for a violent change in the constitutional order, for association for hostile action, for the crime of terrorism. You've amnested the Drenic Group. Mr. Stefanovic, just laugh, and you have amnested 160 terrorists, most likely Serbs who took the "Yellow House", despite then opposition to the Association of Refugees and Missing Persons from Kosovo, who asked that this "Drenica Group" and these dangerous terrorists at least exchange for their neighbors who had evidence that they were still alive. What was the social danger then, that's what I'm asking you? What was the security risk for the citizens, the people and the state? What's this about today? Do you have two policies? I'll call what you're doing a political hypocrite. My objections to this law, and I am not without a grudge, which in Article 1(2) is not covered by persons up to a year in prison because I believe that the reformed judiciary has brought much after a brief procedure of these penalties. Often, those persons who or may not have been able to attach electricity, not to enter 2007, were judged worse than themselves. There the judges accumulated the percentage and number of cases they would receive, and the appeals courts confirmed it because it was the easiest thing to do in a brief procedure to convict some petty thief and set a sentence and then say, I got confirmed 95 out of 110 convictions in a year, I'm saying it by heart. My second regret is that amnesty does not apply to the unjustly convicted, those already convicted in the first degree. Amnesty will not apply to them even though they have done the same things that they have done and those whose punishment was justified by the circumstances. My third grudge is that it doesn't cover faces that haven't turned 70, but it'll soon be over in a month, two, a year or two. That's exactly the kind of amendment I've submitted. My fourth grudge, which is in favor of what my colleagues have been saying, objecting to some alleged future danger, which can indeed happen, which the law does not provide for those who have repeated the act, and have been subject to the amnesty of this law, to be added to the punishment for this new act for which they have been amnesty. So, I'd like that law to be done in that sense. This would significantly reduce the number of returnees. So they would realize that it's not worth doing a new crime, but that they're going to be convicted of it, and they're going to be added that part for which they're amnesty. I understand very well that there is no place in prison here, and for these very reasons I see panic in the party of the former government, in the party of the former regime. They're afraid they'll be, now there's plenty of room for those most dangerous criminals in white collars who've basically robbed their country and their people in favor of themselves, in favour of foreign banks, foreign trade chains and tycoons. They took from the poor to give to the rich. They're afraid the bracelets will no longer lead to the anklet, but the bracelets will lead to a cell in prison. I want to believe you're emptying out prison, Mr. Minister, and that it's a preparation for a general fight against crime committed by the highest state, regional officials. Don't stop, it'll be funny, on Bruce, Black and Major and on a few million dinars. That's where the panic's coming from. That's what those who were against this law are afraid of. I mean, I believe 90% of the prisoners are in prison, not wanting to insult anyone, more honest than the kind of thief I was talking about. In the end, our people want after the bread, but those who sometimes forgot when they ate good food, those who receive a decent meal in front of the people's kitchen and in front of the river, more than the bread they want us to punish the common robbery that undoubtedly took place in this country. We've had enough, ladies and gentlemen, of taking our heads off to the little thieves and taking off our hats in front of the big ones. In the end, even the honest law couldn't make it, and if Al Capone were alive, he'd be a tiny fish of spit for our criminals who were in power. He'd be such a petty criminal that even on the main board of their party, they wouldn't take him in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3185	The word has a national emissary of Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3186	If you don't mind, unlike the usual political debates in parliament, I would not say to such inappropriate words and to this rude behaviour, not a word, considering that the issue of amnesty is a matter of morality and a question of legal order and that there is no position and opposition in that sense. While in this House there are honest people who are not in favour of one or other criminals, they are in favour of the security of their own, own children, states and citizens we represent and that, in this sense, today we are talking about the best possible solutions that will not violate the country's legal order and security, and not about who and whose criminals, finding that I don't have mine and that I can't talk about it. In his opening statement, the minister said a few things. One of them is that amnesty is a political act. It was underlined in his presentation and reasoning of the laws we received. He defectly is. Given that in other countries and in other circumstances he has some objective reasons why the Law on Amnesty is being passed, it seems to me that it is not enough to express the political will of a majority, but also objective circumstances that have forced the majority to propose and adopt such a law. I don't see such objective circumstances at the moment, but I see the political will to free some people. That's not good. Amnesty laws are usually passed after replacing or changing totalitarian or non-democratic regimes with a democratic one. In that sense, we had it in 2001, and in this year, Syria and Tajikistan did it to free the rebels, political dissidents, all those over whom justice and justice were misused. Today we do not have such changes, although it says in the explanation that the Law on Amnesty, you ministers have repeated it, the product of new social and political circumstances. Given that this state was democratic and the rest of the democratic state and that there was a democratic transition of power, that there was a legal state in it, that judges and prosecutors continue to function in it, that the new government did not dispute any of these crimes in a way that would eliminate them or propose different penalties. In that sense, it is not clear, and I would ask you to answer me – what are the new social and political circumstances that have forced the government to propose the Amnesty Act? I have to tell you that the problem of overcrowded prisons has been emerging for a long time, and I'm glad that's because in the last five years, the number of people in prisons has increased by 60%. In that sense, we will never have a dispute that those whom Mr. Cvian lists, those who carried unauthorized hunting weapons, did some traffic violation and so on, should be subject to amnesty or pardon, whatever you choose. I can't agree that because of them and those who committed murder should be subject to collective charity. I can't find any moral or legal reason here. The argument that prisons are overcrowded and expensive is the argument that the vasda in every society existed, but they have their own purpose and in one very specific way saves. Given that the state took away 350m euros from criminals over the previous four years, I fear that savings from a million euros that will happen in the coming days are ridiculous and unserious compared to that fact. Given that one million euros is the monthly budget of one representative ministry, I am quite certain that the people will not see, nor the state will feel such savings, and can feel the consequences of an unselective amnesty. Today, there's a story on all the front pages about buying a new plane from the government. I think it should be bought and I don't think state officials should die because of demagogy. If the state can find 30 million for the aircraft, I'm pretty sure it can also find new prison facilities. I personally worked with the UN torture committee, six years I've dealt with this issue. In the latest report, which they gave Serbia, they gave a negative comment -- overcrowding in prisons. They didn't propose for us to let these people go and solve the problem. They proposed that we expand our accommodation capacity, they suggested that we move from re-examination to re-socialization and propose that the prisons become both economic and production facilities in order to reduce the cost of the state. No one said and no one does it anywhere in the world to fuck the state by letting criminals out of prison. It just doesn't stand as an argument. It's a little bit, I'll agree, insulting to say that we're going to make life easier for the state with savings like this, because we won't. They are poor compared to the cost of the state and they are not meaningful and they are resolved in a different way in all democratic countries. I think there are three crimes that are controversial for me and my moral system because they are covered by amnesty. There's one murder, and there's nothing to explain. As you are called who are going to get out of prison today or tomorrow, the public knows it anyway, it cannot be hidden, it is written and can be read on all sides and it does not matter who says it to attack former Minister Snezana Malovic. It can't be hidden. As no one in Serbia today can explain why the murder is covered by amnesty, since the crime with such prescribed penalties continues to exist. These will be amnesty, and those who, after eight days of this law's entry into force, commit murder will be sentenced in the same way and will fill those prison facilities. Why are these previously privileged? Their murders are, what, more humane than those that follow? Another piece I can't figure out why it's not covered is abuse of official position. This government has a priority against corruption. Some new people are now accused of fighting corruption. The democratic party does not seek their protection, does not seek their amnesty, does not accidentally seek to reduce the penalty for abuse of official office. On the contrary, ask them to be rigorous rules. In that sense, we believe that under amnesty, those who have damaged the state budget, those who have stolen from Serbian citizens, or former, or future, or anyone should not fall. They have no reason to be free today. Their embezzlement was found by the court in the same way that you would find some others embezzlement and send them to prison under that law. God forbid you find them all and be in jail for 18 grand, not eight of them now. It will be a real saving and a reminder of society and morals and immorality that governs politics. The third incomprehensible thing is violence on sports grounds covered by amnesty. In previous days and months, violence on sports grounds has arrived again, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to form a Council for Combating Violence in Sports Fields, chaired by the prime minister and police minister. We thus show the world and local public that this is a big problem for us, that it will no longer go unpunished, that these criminals and hooligans will no longer form this country and determine the rules for who can go, who can parade, who can't, be cops, burn them with a torch, but the state will be seriously accounted for. At the same time we're sending a schizophrenic message, I'd say those who have done so far will be released. You, Minister, are not yourself, but your government had meetings with officers who were dissatisfied with the prosecution's decisions. How is it possible that you haven't asked the opinion of the officers who burn live in the field? What is their opinion of the Amnesty Act, which predicts that those who burned, killed and killed their colleagues are at large? What kind of message is that to those same people who, on Sunday, I don't know when these games are held, they're gonna set fire to the stadium and beat up police officers? What is this message of this country when we, on behalf of one million euros, are releasing the most risky groups for the population? In the end, I expect, not that the opposition, but that the Government of the Republic of Serbia submit amendments to this law and these crimes are exempt from amnesty. The least he can do is exempt the murder from this amnesty. The only murder that can be considered for pardoning the president of the state is the murder of women who committed murder against their spouses when their children were raped or murdered. It only has its moral justification, no other murder. That's what the President of the Republic can do by pardoning him. I ask you to think carefully about what moral rules you introduce into this country if you let these people go free. Thank you, believing we live and work on the same side.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3187	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3188	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, the Amnesty Act, which today was offered to this high home for adoption, is at least in a formal and procedural sense a dominant legal issue. That is why, with full respect for my fellow Members of Parliament from this profession, even those who think they are competent to discuss this issue quite closely, I will today very briefly address it, in particular from another aspect, broader than the one mentioned, using the principle that I will try to point to the very social phenomenon. I have listened carefully today to your comments, as I have followed the media advances of the legislators of this law, as well as analysts who point to the kind of paradoxicality of our current criminal policy, where they claim we have a real theatre of absurdities, where fines for petty theft are threatened, for example. The collection of the trade, the dragonish compared to, say, non-intentional, and therefore, the illegal spending of budget funds. You will remember that the state auditor himself recently made public remarks and publicly criticised the purely infringing character of those sanctions, for which fines are imposed which are again paid out of taxpayers' pockets. As the developed world sanctions itself knowingly or unconsciously dragging its hands into the citizens' pockets, we know. It is no longer just legal, but primarily moral sanctions, which are punishable in the sphere of politics by excluding unconscious individuals from all walks of political life, where individuals themselves are at least caught in doubt that they have pushed their fingers into the state jar of jam sometimes deny themselves the idea of running for a more significant public or political function. Because moral credibility is the most important category when it comes to public affairs. What is happening to us on this subject has been seen in the previous days, listening to sermons and any arbitrary interpretations of the presuppression of innocence, where the media are guilty, the current government, and probably the very people who have a clear perception of the high corruption of some members of the former regime, so it was probably worth punishing the people themselves with. Desiring to demonstrate their version of the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law, representatives of the former regime shot themselves in the legs. They have filled the prisons with all the envisaged standards regarding numerical capacity, not to mention other standards that prison sanctions institutions must meet, for example, with regard to regular and prescribed nutrition, health care and the like. That fact was often warned by the Citizen's Protector, who was disciplined at one point saying that our prisons are at the level of Turkish, and that of the medieval ones. As things stand, for a long time many of our citizens have hardly been better off and out of prison. I'm just going to remind you of last year's initiative of one, I mean, Surdulic family, who volunteered to go to jail because they don't have to pay bills or eat. How many of our citizens today's fines for traffic violations are voluntarily traded for prisons, not to mention. Since they have not already been created an ambience to make money, which is always the task of state authorities, they are forced to bend in every possible and impossible way. In order to save as much and as scarce and as slim as possible the family budget, more and more of our citizens are willing to sacrifice their own freedom. One day of freedom, i.e. Prison costs a thousand dinars, plus what kind of three meals. Long ago in this country, only in better standing houses are eaten three times a day, and to earn a thousand dinars for many has become an impossible mission. So we and prisons become sort of social institutions or safe houses for the growing army of transition losers of our glorious democratisation and reforming society. There is still a time to serve the sentence, because in this country many people have become a punishment, which will soon be faced by those who are amnested and released, and already in an attempt to co-opt themselves in a society where freedom has become an overrated thing, and honor, honesty and morals of a completely overcome and anachronous categories, where many, it seems, is not the biggest crime to steal, but to be stupid and leave behind traces, especially those that can incriminate their close associates. For such a condition, one would have to answer, that he was carrying not only political, but also any other responsibility that he systematically turned Serbia into a "Cursed Ave", on the threshold of the 21st century where freedom can be bought money and the conscience feeds on an excessive amount of social power, with some of which, it seems, the greatest punishment and the very thought that they can lose even a fraction of the delicious cake of power, which they won't give up even if the whole of Serbia became their hostage. There must be no amnesty for that crime and for that crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3189	Thank you. Since we've exhausted the list of speakers, does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3190	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to have had the opportunity to attend and listen to a very lively debate from which there could be a lot of things and useful to get away with, and I am glad that this debate is so. What I'm not happy about is that about a law that really is an expression of political will, but the political will reflects the parliament of a country, a nation, and here our country and our citizens, has served as a market for cheap and expensive demagogy, and has not taken care of what is really clear and well said, that it is a law that needs to create conditions for systemic problem solving. If we are talking about the Amnesty Act, in general speaking about this proposal of the Amnesty Act, of course we have the right to compare it with our current legislative practice. In particular, when we talk about general amnesties, and last we heard, it was last executed in Serbia just 11 years ago, just over 11.5 years ago, in February 2001. When we compare those two laws, then we can really see that this law is much more rigorous than the law that was passed 11.5 years ago. If we look at it from the law, 11 years ago and over, the amnesty is exclusive to only two crimes. These are, according to Article 1 paragraph 4 of that law, a promise, or an anti-natural fornication over an powerless person and a promise, or an anti-natural fornication with a face that did not turn 14 years old. All other crimes were covered in a certain way by this amnesty. With this bill on amnesty, more than 40 crimes are excluded from amnesty, plus if we add to this the crimes for which the condemning verdicts have been brought by the Major Court in Belgrade. So, criminal acts of organized crime. That was correct and to be heard and said here by those who criticized the law. I would also like to say something positive about those who spoke out of the opposition, in the first place, colleague Batic, who came forward with her proposal for an amendment that was not accepted for technical reasons, but which was the only constructive proposal. Don't let criticism come down to criticism. If we want to do something good for the state and for the citizens and for the whole society, then suggest it. Everyone had the opportunity to propose some amendment that would affect the law, right on the bill, in this direction that you were talking about. Don't let us deceive people into depriveing themselves of the responsibilities of a person convicted of criminal acts like a felony of murder. Because they don't deprive themselves. So if you take it and read the views of the law well, but in detail and well, then you will realize that eventually on a person who endured 75% of his sentence will be applied this bill if adopted. Why didn't you look at the previous law then, so you'd see that it wasn't an exception at all, as well as a lot of other acts. For example, this law predicted amnesty 11.5 years ago, it predicted amnesty for those who were convicted of criminal rape, then for the crime against natural fornication, stonings, criminal association, etc. Indeed, it is not correct for people who were protagonists of the former law to teach someone moral lessons today and talk about how this bill puts prime criminals on the streets in the event of their adoption. That's not true. Amnesty has no name, no last name. Don't mix her with pardon. Who will indeed be covered by the amnesty in the event of the adoption of this law, this will be determined by the court, by making a solution. Let that happen. You said that the adoption of a law on amnesty comes in years of major political change when non-democracy regimes are replaced by democratic regimes. Here's an example from our neighborhood. Three years ago, an amnesty law was passed in Montenegro, for an identical reason. Was that preceded by an epochal political change? Same problems our neighbors have. Take a little interest in the situation, say, in Bulgaria, so you'll see what prison overbooking leads to. Serbia is not lonely here in the region or in Europe. Serbia is indeed burdened with many social problems that have only reflected on this portfolio. We heard in the presentation of a people's MP, it's a real piece of information, which is that over 12 years ago, an amnesty of a total of 6,000 people at the time of the punishment was covered by 4200 people. This amnesty covers slightly less than 3600 convicted persons. If you have in mind the overbooking of prison, if you have in mind the conditions in which these people live, if you have in mind that it's not just a problem of space, it's a problem and health, and if you really want to be constructive, as some of you are, it should be appreciated and respected until the end. Then make your constructive contribution, not by saying that nothing is right, because this is a bill of amnesty better than any law adopted so far that has come out of this home. If you're not going to admit it, at least don't say what's not true. You could hear a lot of it. It was also possible to hear that the judgments of this amnesty bill were terminated, with probably the one who stated it became involved in the reading of the Constitution, and in Article 145, paragraph 5, where it is nice to say that the pardon, or amnesty given, can be forgiven without a court ruling in general or in part. It's in a member who talks about the trial, about making decisions by the court. So it's a constitutional category, as we said, present everywhere in the world, in Serbia has not been for almost 12 years, and it's estimated that this is really the time to reach it. Are you going to find the missing sides in some general way? In every general act, you will. Unfortunately, Serbia has been pushed by political circumstances, many events longer than one, for over two decades into situations where it is constantly ahead of dilemmas, to choose between two evils less. I hope so, and I am deeply convinced that we will come to an opportunity, soon, hardworking and dedicated, to choose between evil and good and to choose well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3191	Thank you, Minister Selakovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want another person who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3192	As I said earlier today, I'm going to have to repeat briefly, because I'm surprised by the different ways of accessing arguments for and against this law. We have heard many principled, legal, precise observations today and many beautiful and attractive political observations, but the reality is beyond this hall and she says, I will remind you once again, that the need for such a law is technical, that more than a decade in various reports, domestic, foreign, international, among other things, as a solution to a number of problems and amnesty, is recommended for the following reasons, in practice, when you say overcrowded, that means, prisons that are inhuman, and secondly, insecure prisoners and by guards and by citizens where prison units are located. Because of such inhumane conditions, we have reliable data from practice that we are resorting to reality because of various solutions that are not illegal, but the pressure to resort to them as often as possible, which is from different releases, temporary, weekends, in various ways, people who are accused of the strictest acts. We have in practice examples of people who committed serious crimes that the police couldn't trace for years, because they did them on weekends and went back to prison. So, inhumanely to those who, for small offences, think of different traffic offences, were forced to be further criminalised, instead of sustained and re-evaluated. We bring out a whole series of data that exist in this country. We have pressure, let's not lie, because we're not a country that has high moral standards in citizens' behavior, let alone authorities. We have terrible pressures on the judiciary to make milder judgments, to delay judgments by reason, otherwise there's no place in prisons. According to the paper, it turns out that this information is not official, I was talking, don't talk just, the previous or that power, it's about the authorities, because we have situations where rapists, meaning convicted persons, are not going to serve time for alleged technical reasons for which they can, because of this situation, always and always happens by bribery and corruption, to create reasons that these people don't go to execution. Do you realize how the victims feel, because of course we're talking about how the victims feel, if someone who's sentenced to 12 years is going to last eight years and be released for whatever it is they're doing, but we're taking care of this, too. Why are we saying all this? Because everyone and the opportunity has been missed, I support the parts of what Mrs. Komic said, which Mrs. Trivan said, although I must say publicly, Mrs. Trivan does not keep her word. She promised to speak as long as I didn't go back to the O.R., and she said shorter, I'm kidding. So we missed the opportunity to show that the most institutions, the Assembly, brings this act, as we have found together, not as an act of mercy, not as an act of justice, but as an act of need, simply, that is reality, as the Constitution says they all have the right to work, but do not work. You can't, when you say, come on, here's a way to hire a hundred people, and you say, but that doesn't satisfy the constitutional right for everyone to get a job, of course we don't, but that's no reason not to do this. So, the act of need and that is why it is extremely important that we approach this vote, first of all, excuse me, Mr. Minister, but the laws do not compare with whether or not they went out in quality, as the amendments are not rejected in advance, because there is a possibility and I appeal to you personally and to the people of the Committee, to consider the possibility of possible and in this technical law, suggestions that can be amended to regulate one of these three members, the other seven are technically, that we should, because then it will certainly be easier for all to understand that there is one act of need. I say once again, no act of justice, no act of mercy, and least of all, God forbid someone's memory falls, an act of fulfillment of political promises. I guess no one's flaunting themselves with this kind of need for amnesty, not in any political promise. Thanks to the willingness to do this together, I'm sure that then the number of votes will be different, and that means that it will be easier for everyone in the future to do everything they have to do, because if it's not an act of mercy and it's not an act of justice, but only an act of need, then it's only creating a precondition, which I've pointed out, but at least one of the preconditions that some of the problems that have resulted in the present situation in prisons that would be most easily resolved, to build a new prison, but let's be serious, this isn't a story from jokes about how the Firefighters were saying, when you're already offering us a school, hospital, prison, give us prison, that our children don't go to the side. It's not prison investment. It is not possible in this way to discuss what we would like, because there are many ideal solutions, and this is a matter of a necessary choice, a necessary solution to spread out a little bit of an area so that they can start to change on the basis of everything that was seen seven, five, three years ago and now, that it is possible to make a more effective criminal policy, to make humane conditions, that there is no additional criminalisation and, of course, in relation to all that in at least one small segment, there are no political disputes as we have heard today and of course, these radicals for which there was no need today. Thank you, everyone who understands this approach, and I hope you too, Mr. Minister, will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3193	On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the principled review of the Amnesty Act. We move to item 2 of the agenda in the general search – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL PERSONAL DATA. You have received the bill submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SNS - one hour, sixteen seconds and 48 seconds; DS one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; SPS - 30 minutes; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; United regions of Serbia - 18 minutes; LDP - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Nova Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; Unity Serbia – eight minutes and 24 seconds; The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians – six minutes; SC – Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes; The League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina – six minutes; the Parliamentary Group of National Minority, People's Party and Rich Serbia - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to this item of the agenda, MPs: MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, parliamentary group of the URS, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the promoter – MP Srdjan Mikovic – want a word? Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3194	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, before you the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and this very applicable Law on the Protection of Personality Data has not satisfactorily defined the possibility of using personal data to raise funds for humanitarian needs, which protects and enhances the security of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and the exercise of fundamental human rights. Namely, our Constitution defines that, and guarantees the right to live, the right to special protection of families, mothers, single parents and children, the right to health and social protection, the right to a healthy environment and the right to preserve speciality. It is precisely, in a situation where we are all faced with the financial crisis, both in our homeland and in our environment, the fact is that it is necessary in a certain way to gather all those who have a good will in the affairs of collecting humanitarian aid, in order to meet the recorded needs, above all those most endangered parts of the population. Since there is a need for many problems to be solved in Serbia by collecting funds for humanitarian needs, and this is difficult and often impossible without using personality data, it is necessary to create legal preconditions for this. On the basis of the fact that, in the past period, due to the fact that the controllers of personality data, because of the provisions of the applicable personal data protection law, have ceased to process data for the purpose of collecting funds for humanitarian needs, the possibility of solving the huge problems of citizens, their security and the achievement of fundamental human rights has been reduced. Since it is impossible for the problem to be resolved differently by the adoption of a bill supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, I have therefore come to the point of being the one who has had the honour of proposing such a bill. Namely, my great friend Srdjan Milivojevic, whom you know as a former MP, asked me to receive a co-ordinator of the folk cuisine of Raško-prizrenska, Mr. Djordža Jovanovic, who visited Pancheva in August and explained to me in the rooms of the SPC the whole problem they face, among other things, the folk cuisine in the enclaves in our southern province. The fact is that over the last year, six million dinars were collected through an info-platnica for the needs of folk cuisine at KIM. He currently has six national cuisines and they provide daily hot meals for the two thousand most socially endangered persons on KIM. I was able to, as former vice president of the Red Cross of Vojvodina, for five years, perform that function, be familiar with the activities and organizations of the Red Cross, right at the gathering of aid, also for socially endangered and at risk categories of people at all. The fact is that these jobs are dealt with by the army of people in humanitarian organisations and trying to put pressure on the state authorities, on the authorities of local self-government, on the organs of territorial autonomy reducing, exactly, by collecting aid through humanitarian actions. The fact is that at this point, the current Act practically prohibits the payment of the Infostan payment in Belgrade, or the payment of Informatics in Novi Sad, or the payment of the EDB, or the payment of another public-communal company in local self-government, means that it is also forbidden to pay a particular payment which would appeal to the users of these public services that, if they can, payment for folk cuisine, that, if they can, payments for the treatment of a child from the Batten disease, to pay eventually some funds for the action of the Red Cross or to provide money for the purchase of an incubator. That's exactly the reason that led me to take steps to propose this law, to try to consult and consult all those involved. I just want to show you that, in addition to the draft law delivered in the process at the end of August, on 13 September, I have provided a supplement, an explanation of the bill, which has been explicitly stated by many institutions in terms of the bill itself, regarding the need to pass such a law. There is His Archdiocese Episcopal of Raško-Prizren and Kosovo-Methochian, Mr Theodosija, the Red Cross of Serbia, the Red Cross of Vojvodina, the Red Cross of Belgrade, the Office of the Children's Fund of the UN, UNICEF Serbia, the JKP Informatics of Novi Sad, the Association of Citizens "Mother of Nine Yugoslavia", the Gracanica monastery, the Fund of Ana and the Government of Divac, the Youth of the Yugoslav Association for Combating AIDS, meaning, JAZAS. I later delivered a second addition, an explanation, where I provided you with a statement from the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, which supported a bill like this. Just to explain to you in a certain way that there is a statement in this direction, namely last year's statement and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, in a letter from 28 November 2011, to Mrs Snezani Malovic, then Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic said, among other things, that he was aware of the importance of providing humanitarian assistance to those who are in need, I would ask you to, given all the reasons in advance, because he proposed the adoption of a whole law that would regulate this matter's protection of personal data, and especially the one relating to the possibility of processing personality data, not only to achieve the basic purpose, but also to achieve the purpose of collecting funds for humanitarian needs, initiates the work on changes and additions of the Personal Data Protection Act, i.e. to develop a new text of the Personal Data Protection Act. In this law-proposing business, except for people who are legally employed in the National Assembly, who have provided me with selfless help, especially with regard to the analysis of the bill, whether this proposal is in line with the EU regulations, to the support that I received from all the political groups that exist and that work in the National Assembly, and in general political life in Serbia, from the former Secretary-General of the National Assembly, who is now the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Veljko Odalović, who is familiar with the problems, above all in our southern province, to the president or representatives, practically, of all the parliamentary groups sitting in this Chamber and those who are not in the membership, means, in the context of parliamentary groups, rather than acting as independent MPs. Just what I've been facing lately, it's the hope that when we get together about some action that's socially justified for everyone and we're trying to get a certain bottleneck in the current legislation, we're sort of removing it. I think there's a chance that in other things we'll get together, no matter what we always keep our own self-resistance and certain disagreements, which is normal in a political struggle for everyone to fight for their own idea. I must say that in the process so far during the time it was possible to submit amendments, four amendments were made to Ms. Olgica Batic and two amendments submitted by Ms. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic of the DSS parliamentary group. I just have to say that these thoughts that exist and amendments to Miss Olga Batic and the thoughts that exist in the amendments to the DSS MPs, I was in the same dilemmas. I was in the same dilemmas about the application of Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with regard to the position of Article 3 42, with the fact that during the consultations that preceded the very submission of the bill, and also after that, including the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which yesterday had a session, where I was given the right to, however, be defined by Article 42(2), the collection, holding, processing and use of personality data, is governed by the law, and this is a blank norm which allows and which is practically confirmed that what I have proposed is absolutely in accordance with the Constitution. I also received support for this in a unanimous statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, despite the fact that these dilemmas existed with me when I started this job on Mr. Djordjo Jovanovic's initiative. I think this very session of the Committee is the dilemma of the race. With regard to what colleagues Mrs. Donka Banovic and Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic have made as a reasonable suggestion that using personality data other than those for which data are collected and processed by law can be only an exception in order to collect aid for humanitarian needs. In that sense, this whole law is practically an exception but only for that purpose. In that respect, I consider this amendment to be essentially justified in Article 3. Even linguistically, he could go, but I still think and I urge him to reconsider that because of the procedure, because in no other way does the proposed text speak, except for that purpose alone. Article 12a, which will be introduced if the bill is adopted, goes towards the fact that only for that purpose, the collection of funds for humanitarian needs can be used. That's an exception. So we can use the term and we can use it exclusively, but basically I agree absolutely with you, and I only think that the solution offered right now is satisfying that you and I think the same thing. In any case, I invite you ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, to accept this bill which, no matter what I suggest, I do not think it is mine. This is a law regarding a large number of people who can't do without our help. It is the law of all of them, all of them threatened and all those who have a good will to help the most vulnerable citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3195	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that an authorised SNS representative on this agenda is Mr. Vladimir Cvian. I missed that. Do the rapporteurs of the relevant committees, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3196	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted amendments to this bill and I have had the same dilemmas that are in these amendments and contained, but I have a few facts to make. Namely, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, not in this proposed form, as such is not lex specialis but is a lex generalis law in the area of protection by the Constitution of guaranteed human rights to the protection of personal data from Article 42 of this very most controversial member, which we are just mentioning, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, this law prescribes the protection of personal data, but in an extremely general way. What's interesting is that even the exceptions to the rules prescribed by the Personal Data Protection Act are determined in one general rather than in a specific way. Also, this law is not fully in line with relevant international documents. These are the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Data Processing, the Additional Protocol with the Convention, the European Parliament's Directive, as well as the Council in this matter. When the law itself was adopted, I do not mean this proposal, there were certain derogations from the provisions of Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the Commissioner for Public Information has also proposed to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of certain provisions of this law. In order not to further interpret the provisions of the law that has already been passed, since the draft law of Mr. Srdjan Mikovic should be discussed here, I would like to point out that also in the situation of a difficult economic crisis in which we are surely in place and, unfortunately, there is no indication that we will soon come out of it, we are all witnessing that a growing number of people need some kind of humanitarian aid. The Christian Party of Serbia is fully aware of such a situation and, in turn, is trying to contribute to poverty reduction. As small as she may seem, we've always responded to humanitarian actions. Soon we will present our strategy against poverty. In that sense, we also support the idea just given by the legislator of this law, Mr. Srdjan Mikovic. We believe that this solution, of course, can be better, like anyone, can always be better, because I'm afraid it also enables numerous abuses. In fact, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data is designed as a modest law that generally protects the guaranteed right to the protection of personal data. It is necessary that the law, which in total regulates all matter collection of humanitarian aid, regulates the matter of collection, the matter of processing, the matter of keeping and the use of personal data. It is true that it would be necessary to specify exactly what data on the person is collected, who is the processor of that data, under which conditions it is possible to access the databases of that data, who has the right to access that data, in which way these data are kept, to determine how the persons who have accessed the databases in the form of a particular register are recorded. And not only that, it would be necessary to precisely settle a number of technical issues. If the proposed legislative solution is adopted, I fear that there may be some kind of abuse, because the proposal does not determine which data is collected, who collects them and whose needs, etc. In particular, we point out that the promoter introduces a new term. This is the term "humanitarian need", which is not defined by the Personal Data Protection Act, which could in practice lead to different interpretations. By adopting the proposal not only to violate that Article 42. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the protection of personal data, is already in some way subject to the law. Namely, what will be worth the existence of the Personal Data Protection Act if we simply enable the avoidance of all the necessary protection mechanisms and by calling for one, in my opinion, a flat-rate term of "humanitarian needs". We must not forget that two months ago, the public information trustee and the protection of personal data, presented shocking data on the number of listening conversations, about unauthorized access to databases. Also, we must not close our eyes to the fact that our citizens in daily legal traffic are conditioned to deny the protection of the law, in order to allow them to conclude certain contracts. When I say certain legal faces, I mean banks in the first place. In such a situation, legislative changes must, above all, go towards improving the legal provisions and the protection mechanism of personal data, not only in the direction of putting beyond the force of the adoption of those changes, which will allow the data that are allegedly protected to not, in fact, be collected, processed, passed on and all under humanitarian need. In the end, I will point out that I have heard from the legislators of this bill that this is what we had a dilemma about and what we have consulted about, all the doubts of such a dilemma, as regards the alignment of this Article 42th Constitution. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, a unanimous decision has been taken on this matter and a united position is taken by all, and the Committee is represented by representatives of all parliamentary groups. So I will use this opportunity to say that, no matter what amendments I have submitted, which I have explained one part of this way and in my presentation, because such a unique position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislativeness is withdrawing its amendments on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3197	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3198	Thank you, Madam Chairman, MPs, although this little addition to the Personal Data Protection Act seems to be quite small and clear and precise enough that it should not be spoken of excessively, yet I think this topic should be opened. First of all, because it is very sensitive and very important to all citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens believe or do not report very often, precisely because their confidential data is kind of abused by the various people who call them on the phone, to the fact that the mail they did not order comes from them. They're looking for help in terms of who they should turn to and how to protect their personal data. Of course, it should be a signal to us MPs as much as this area is very sensitive and how much we can explain it, but also to citizens who are sure to listen to this TV broadcast can be helpful. Each of us daily leaves a lot of electronic tracks, working on the Internet, paying our bills electronically or in any other way, starting with making a phone call. All these data are very specific, personal and can be misused, used in an adequate way. It is also a fact that more and more citizens' records are being connected in Serbia, but this does not reduce their unauthorized use or misuse of data from those citizens. The information I'm about to say can sound incredible, even excessive, because he's very confidential, so please make sure I didn't misread or misread the data. It is said that Serbia currently has 350,000 public and private sector entities dealing with the processing of personality data, watch out for 350,000 different entities, while the number of records and databases is estimated at over a million. So, we all give our data in education, in social protection, in health care, in banks, we end up giving data through video surveillance in public places, in business and housing, data on the PIO fund. So all that data is in almost a million bases in Serbia. That's enough talking. I want to start a principle story from something that almost happened, and it can be a very good example of what I want to talk about. The Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Mr. Sabic, has instructed the government to propose a law on security checks. Of course, something must have caused Mr. Shabic to launch this initiative, and the cause was incredible. The trustee conducted surveillance at the Criminal Police Academy for the appeal of a girl who wanted to be a student of this academy and who took an entrance exam at this academy. According to the test results, the girl was at the top among the candidates, so she did a very good test. Unfortunately, the school didn't sign up because she didn't pass the security check, under quotes. What's still problematic is that she was not allowed to see the results of that check from this school, nor did they tell her why she was disqualified. What didn't go after the girl's hand went after Mr. Sabic as a person, an institution to say, and then the public was familiar with the facts that were quite shocking. The girl didn't go through that enrolment, not because it was something controversial in her biography, but because there was something controversial about one of her parents' biography. So today, children of Chetniks and partisan children are still in force in Serbia. Unfortunately, the story with Serbia is never over. It is little to say that the Personal Data Protection Act has been violated, that the trustee could have warned the Criminal Police Academy that he had to check his personality data, handle himself exclusively by law. Imagine that the Criminal Police Academy has to warn you that it works according to the law, how okay it is. Therefore, according to the Constitution of our Serbia and the Data Protection Act, the processing of personal data is permitted only if it is provided for by law or if the person whose processing of the data is subject to such data processing is permitted. Unfortunately, in practice it happens exactly the opposite. Data processing is usually performed completely inconsistencies or without consent. The third person's data is often processed, which is not allowed. It's about checking out, like this girl, one of the parents or some family member. It should not be said that the person whose data are processed has never been informed of the processing of data. We were almost talking about it, so we saw how many entities are unauthorized or authorizedly listening to Serbian citizens. The right to see these data processed is not respected, the person has no right to obtain a copy of this data, for which data protection is provided for in the Data Protection Act, and in certain cases criminal liability. In order not to compensate the DSS, as we talked about amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act, she spoke exactly the same way I'm talking today, just saying what kind of abuses can come from having such an inaccurate and broadly elaborated concept. I must say that our intervention of amendments to the law that you have proposed to Mr. Mikovic is actually for the same reasons. We wanted things to be completely clear and precisely defined, that it was exclusively about that. Although the humanitarian need for us was also something that we had to deal with, because it's a pretty imprecise term. We all know what it's all about, but in law it should be much clearer and a very precise definition. For these reasons, our amendments are addressed. Of course, a famous security check that is legitimately the right of the state, their purpose, species, scope, way of checking, as well as the way the data is processed would be the subject of this law proposed by Mr. Sabic, the government to submit as a proposal. Nothing would be too controversial if there was such a law. Why do I even mention that law that doesn't even exist? It's precisely because of the fact that the one that's in force today is an undefined and vast space for discretionary proceedings, which we also pointed out, because as soon as you have the possibility of discretionary decision-making on what's good or not, then you have the possibility that abuse is extremely large. Another of the causes of all the problems I have cited is certainly the Law on the secrecy of information. Otherwise, nearly three years, perhaps several months over three years, as this law began to apply, and the government that then committed has not yet brought closer to the criteria for determining the degree of secrecy. I must remind you that without these criteria, any confidentiality of any document has been disputed. The additional problem is, of course, that under the law of that time, the supervision of the implementation of this law was assigned to the Ministry of Justice, which has neither the people nor the professional capacity nor the sufficient number of people to deal with this problem, and therefore this problem remains unresolved. Another example, which is also an example of why we're actually getting into this fine language grinding, what's the example of bus plus cards that refer to students. There was also asked to fill in two documents, to fill in two forms for parents, but it was not said to parents that one did not need to be filled out and that it was filled in for marketing purposes by a particular marketing agency involved, and otherwise they took data from students of the type of address, e-mail address, phone numbers, and everything else, and then one of the parents complained, knew this data, but 99% of them knew how many percent of the parents didn't know they could protect their data. Then what happened? Then we experienced that Sabic eventually banned the processing of this data with phone numbers, addresses and email addresses. It is precisely for these reasons that the DSS parliamentary group, whose law is not controversial, understands the need, in particular we understand the moment in which nearly two thirds of Serbian citizens must address the state or some non-governmental sector, one part of the NGO sector, to receive any humanitarian aid because it cannot survive and for these reasons we are absolutely clear about the state of the national cuisine, especially in enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why we're ready to talk about the amendments that we've submitted, to see what's working, but please, either you or the government representatives who are not present at this time, because you're the representative of the promoters, that the next time we have these laws on the agenda we really try, in our best intentions and each other we sit down very precisely and we shake up those laws, because I'm afraid, I said, this is a very sensitive topic, a very sensitive area. Everyone uses the data of the people they take, the bases are different, I said. I'd like to make sure this goes exclusively for humanitarian purposes, so let's say what these are humanitarian purposes and how these data will be used. We're particularly concerned that you didn't say who was collecting this information. We're particularly concerned about what data people need to give, their personal data. So, the amendments we've submitted just explain all that. I say again, I understand the moment. We are very ready to talk about this law being passed as soon as possible, because this way many people, especially in enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija, will get at least one meal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3199	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3200	New Serbia welcomes the promoter who, with these amendments and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act, had primarily one humane and good intentions, which is to facilitate the collection of funds for humanitarian needs, since public enterprises that collect and process personal data of citizens are forbidden to send payments for any humanitarian action. These payments that citizens will receive with the bill allow everyone who wants to give it humanitarian aid, not to wander around and search the press and ask no questions about where they can pay the money. It has been shown that the provisions of a applicable law prohibiting those companies from processing citizens' data have reduced the possibility of solving huge citizens' problems. Citizens who do not want to pay money for humanitarian needs can always throw away a ballot or those who do not want to receive it should inform the company that is then obliged not to send them any more bills with an account. It is clear that these amendments will reduce the pressure on budget funds and local self-government. Of course, colleagues who have spoken show concern and changes and additions to this law on the abuse of personality data, but I would not speak of them at this time, because I believe that the proposing's intention was above all a good and humane and noble thing to help people in both enclaves and people who need help at all. On this occasion alone, I would like to point out one example, which is from last year, which shows that it is Mr. Mikovic's intention to help many who need help with these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which primarily refers to the request made by Omladine JAZAS, who on 24 November 2011 asked the Commissioner for information of public importance to give consent to an information account for November 2011, which would actually point to the fight against AIDS. Of course, the Commissioner was prevented from doing anything, and his reasoning is very interesting. First, the Commissioner replied that under the jurisdiction laid down by this law, the Commissioner was authorised to grant consent only in the event of the transfer of personal data from Serbia and secondly, that, in accordance with the principles of this law, the Public Undertaking for Infostan may process personality data only if it has legal authority or consent to the persons to whom these data relate. Given that in this case, and before amending and supplementing this law, the public undertaking Infostan has neither the legal basis nor the consent of a person to the personal data of the citizens that it receives for the purpose of achieving the combined collection of utility services for other purposes, e.g. I think it proved to be a problem. As a result, the NS parliamentary group will support this law, with the view to avoiding amendments and preventing all abuses in the protection of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3201	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are extremely pleased that a law of this kind has been found in the procedure, that is, the law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, a law that tries in a new way to regulate the matter of which there were certain concerns in practice. We are particularly pleased that we can speak today and confirm what the president of the National Assembly Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic said on the first day he entered the post, which is that the SNS parliamentary group will always carefully consider the draft laws, constructive, quality and extremely good proposals of the laws proposed by the opposition. One of those laws, we have no problem saying that, is the law proposed by counterpart Srdjan Mikovic. This is a law that really regulates one area, we say, that citizens have probably noticed it in their practice and in everyday life, that it is really a problem in that fact that when they deliver, say, Infostan payments, that it is currently not in line with the law when these payments come and a certain payment for humanitarian activity, that churches can't also use data for humanitarian activity, etc. In one word, the SNS parliamentary group and, on behalf of the SNS, I would like to express my gratitude for one such bill, with the final position on the proposal itself, whether we will vote in favour or in how we vote, we will bring when we see for the beginning of the amendment and when we see the position in the first place of the Legislative Secretariat. 39/1AD/VZ17. 45-17.55 We want to see if this is how the law is written in accordance with international standards, whether it is in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and in this context to see what the amendments give. I think in some way we've heard from all the speakers who've been commenting on the law, which is that some things still need to be seen, perhaps done, will have time. What I particularly want to stress is one of the maximum support for Mr. Mikovic's work. We are pleased that so many international organisations have given support to this text of the law. I'm glad that in the end, there is one agreement for such a law, or law, to be passed. As I recall, that deal was made over a year ago. The situation has now come to debate him, but I'm glad the time has come to discuss him. The final position of the SNS, rather than praising the constructive position of the opposition, will be given the moment when we see and what the Secretariat of legislation has to say about this matter, but also when we see other amendments, and especially when we get a view of the fact that such a law and such a proposal is in line with international standards. If all these views are positive, and of course, respecting the amendments that we believe will contribute to making the text of the law even better, I am sure the SNS will also vote in favour of this law and I believe that in that case we will have a consensus that perhaps we will all unanimously support the bill of our colleague Srdjan Mikovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3203	Snezana Stojanovic applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3204	Thank you. As an authorised representative of the URS, I would like very briefly to comment on this law. Before that, I would like to say that for me as someone who has been in parliament for a long time this is one of Parliament's holidays, because we have a situation that the law is proposed in the National Assembly, that it is proposed by a MP and proposed by a MP who is a representative of the opposition. I think this is a very good practice, i.e. the beginning of a practice that should be applied in the future. If I remember correctly, such examples were very few in the past, they were almost gone. It has been a very rare situation in general for MPs to propose legislation, so I think this is a very nice day for parliament, and that is why the debate here today under this law is so peaceful and quality. I think it's a really good practice in which parliamentarians exchange opinions in one dialogue, discuss the essence of the law and not just deal with political flossules, but are really dealing with what is essential to the life of our citizens. It is certain that there are good reasons to limit the use of personal data. It is certain that the right to privacy is one of the basic human rights, and as part of the right to privacy, it is certainly also the right to respect the limitations on personality data. It's something to think about in our country, something to think about especially when it comes to modern technology, and it's something to teach our children to think about when they're critically sharing their data with others or when they're unauthorized to use other people's data. It's a very common case on social networks. That's why I think you should be careful when they change into the Personal Data Protection Act. I believe that this case is not so and that it essentially does not violate this right, nor restricts it to the extent that it would endanger the privacy of the person, at least not to the extent that it is more significant, to put it this way, than the profits this law brings. He primarily refers to those who are the most endangered in our country. This must be a time when we have to think about them in particular. I want to point out that it's not just a difficult time to think about the weakest, the most vulnerable and the poorest. Even when times are much better, even when the state is not poor, it has an obligation and must think of the reals of the poorest and the poorest. Unfortunately, Serbia is a country that has a large number of poor. What is particularly worrying is the fact that in recent years this poverty has been growing quite rapidly. After 2006-2008 when we had a significant decline in the number of poor in Serbia, when it was 6.8% of the extremely poor, we have about 14% of the people living below the poverty line in 2010. I'm afraid the new data will be even worse and that this line will be, or that the number of those falling below that line will be even greater. What is particularly worrying is that the most vulnerable categories among the poor are the weakest ones again, which means children under the age of 13. It's something we all need to think about seriously. That is why any amendments to the law and any change that contributes to helping the poor to a greater extent, those who are particularly threatened with poverty, children, old people, people who do not have a job, single parents, people with disabilities or other particularly sensitive groups in Serbia, then it certainly is. So any such initiative is for support and, I say, requires somewhat less criticism than when other legal provisions are at stake. We are inclined, therefore, to support this law and to enable humanitarian organisations, through those who are already authorised to handle personality data, to achieve their work, or to collect more resources that are necessary for their work. I mean, no law is more important than the right of people to live with dignity, and in that sense, we are here to change those laws when it's necessary. I think this is one of those situations, and I believe that a large number of MPs will support this law. I'll just read you something I found when it comes to donations or humanitarian aid. It's one text in the paper that tells us about the paradox that sometimes the law is beyond human needs. It's about paveding the streets in a village. The text goes like this: "After one of the donors paved several streets, a drinking square and a cemetery in that place, at the door of those who did so, the city inspectors knocked." The man says, "I didn't believe they stopped the asphalting and told me we weren't allowed to perform this kind of work. They made a record of parts of the village that were paved and banned us from the settlement roads, as well as the introduction of water into the health clinic, which we also planned to connect to the water system. The residents will now step on the mud, the infirmary will be waterless and will not work, and it is all by law, while the people who want to help are working against the law. Isn't that crazy, the gentleman in question? "I would say that it is, not because, in the case of donor or humanitarian aid, there is no need to take care of laws, certainly to lead, cannot be built without permission, it is certain, but urban services in these cases must be much more flexible and work together with those who are willing to provide donor, or humanitarian assistance. In that sense, I believe that today we too need to show more flexibility and goodwill and to amend this provision in such a way that humanitarian aid is possible to the greater extent needed. Given that many humanitarian organisations from Jasas to UNICEF supported this initiative, I believe that it will contribute greatly to our being satisfied that we are doing this way, and that those who need help get the necessary help for their dignified life and normal functioning. That is why our parliamentary group will support this law and, as I have already said and I repeat once again, with the hope that we will continue to work successfully together independently of political commitment to the well-being of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3205	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a representative of Proposer Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3206	In any case, I find these discussions that were held during the principle debate useful. I share the view that this whole matter with regard to the Personal Data Protection Act should be reviewed once more, i.e. the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data before this National Assembly. However, this proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act went only to open up the possibility of collecting funds for humanitarian needs, only within that and nothing beyond that. So, the formula used is the one used by the trustees in a memo that was directed to the Justice Ministry and if there is an indetermination in that sense we can discuss. In that sense, I went to use that formulation so it wouldn't be controversial. To this day, I had a certain nervous system and a great nervous system of how my colleagues and colleagues would be determined according to a bill that comes here in the procedure and how competent committees in charge of certain areas of work of the National Assembly would be determined. Exactly two dilemmas were disbanded yesterday. Yesterday was the session of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, which unanimously decided that there was no dilemma regarding constitutionality and agreement with the legal system of this draft law. One stone fell from my heart. The second committee was a session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which is the parent committee for the field of protection of personal data. At yesterday's session, which began at 1400 hours, my colleague and colleagues gave me the right and unanimously supported this bill. True, no amendments, but it is supported by such a bill as is given in the proposal. Finally, at 9.30 p.m. today, before the start of the National Assembly session, a session of the Committee on European Integration was held, whose task is to consider the draft law and the second general act from the point of view of their flexibility to the EU and the Council of Europe and to give an opinion on the justification for the shortening of the procedure. So, the Committee on European Integration has unanimously been set up under the bill, that this bill is in line with EU and Council of Europe rules. The three filters that mattered to the National Assembly, to decide the National Assembly, on these committees were not a question of decision-making, unanimously passed this bill. Now it remains on me here and on you to agree in the tide whether there is a possibility that we can get enough votes, to help those, as the Vladika Theodosia, yesterday and today, with prizren's delicacies collected 35 tons of potatoes for the folk's cuisine, that we are going in that direction to help and to which help is most needed. That is why I again appeal here to my distinguished colleagues from the DSS, Mrs Vojić Markovic and Mrs Banovic, since there is no dispute, at least in front of the committees, in the bill itself, to consider giving up the amendments submitted, because then we have everything indisputable to decide when the day of the vote comes. I think whatever the need, every single thing about the Personal Data Protection Act should be considered. Many of us were in a situation, among other things, personally in a situation between 15 December 1999 and 1 November 2000, all private conversations were listening to me, this was the file. It's a clear conscience, because those who listened couldn't find anything they could put on my burden. True, this should not be a practice, it should be possible to protect personal data. It means that everyone is protected, but once again I appeal, if there is a good will, to think again. Only two amendments are in the process, and these are your amendments. If we made a decision today, we would know that it remains in our voting day to define ourselves according to the draft law that received the support of all three committees in charge at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3207	Thank you. Mr. Jugovic, you have applied for the word, but we have already reached the part where one who has not applied for the right of Article 96... (Alexander Jugovic, from the post: Why should I give up? That's part two of the discussion. Since you didn't discuss in the first part, please give up the discussion now. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic, using the rest of the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3208	Just a second to clarify this, because you're not taking the time on me, because it's obviously a distraction to what's going on. (President: To be clear, you are now speaking... I speak as an authorised representative of the DSS. (President: That's right, and use your second part of the time. Mr. Jugovic responded after not having discussed in the first part, and has the right in accordance with Article 96 to divide that time into two parts. How am I supposed to give him my word? I just don't think it's in line with the Rules of Procedure. All right. I will answer to Mr. Mikovic, the promoter, the DSS will not be an obstacle to the urgent adoption of this bill, above all because the DSS would never be a problem in such an urgency of passing such a law. Our amendments, we also made that clear, were only going in that direction to fix the proposal, so that no abuses would occur, and we were just working to stop this law from being passed. Don't count on us to get in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3209	Thank you. (Alexander Jugovic, from the post: Can I have a word? Mr. Jugovic, did you understand what I said? So, in accordance with article 96, your discussion as president or author of a parliamentary group, you have the right to split into two parts. That part of the session has already passed, and we moved on to that second part at the end of the session, when we crossed the list of speakers where there were no entries for the word. I asked if there was anyone who didn't use the first part of the law, and now you've called and you haven't been to the session so far. Don't get me to break the Rules of Procedure, I really can't. Don't be mad. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. (Alexander Jugovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! Here you go, Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3210	Just in Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure – President, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group who has the right to speak for up to 20 minutes, with this time being able to split into two parts. So, in the first part of the principled search, one part of the time of the SPO – DHSS Parliament Club was used, and now in the second part, I want to complete the exhibition. If you let me do it, I'll do it. If you feel that I have no right to do so, I will violate the Rules of Procedure by agreeing with you. Okay, Vice-President of Parliament, in order to speed up Parliament's work, I'm going to use it some other time, so I'm going to say what I'm about to say right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-23-0.u3211	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am terminating the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012 in order to hold a new session of the National Assembly, which you have already been informed of during the meeting of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012, which was called for tomorrow, or on Wednesday 24 October 2012, starting at 10.00 hours. This came due to the urgent need for the National Assembly to review and adopt the draft law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks, in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, which is in the proposed agenda of tomorrow's session. In view of the need to ensure the smooth functioning of the economy and the banking system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to prevent significant and direct damage to the financial system and its stability, as a result of this possible negative consequences for the economy of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to consider this bill as soon as possible at a session of the National Assembly. You will be informed of the follow-up of the suspended session in a timely manner within the meaning of Article 101(5) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
