ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8255	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8256	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, I have an application that I will ask you, Madam Vice President, to pass on to the President of the National Assembly. November 23rd. In 2012, I asked a parliamentary question concerning the way authorities were transferred to local self-government. I asked a parliamentary question at several addresses, including the first Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of the fight against corruption, organised crime by Aleksandr Vukic, if he knows what methods local SNS officials throughout Serbia are doing when they are transposing the government and transposing the local authorities. I also cited examples from various local self-governments, not only in Vojvodina, but elsewhere in Serbia, where committees belonging to different parties witnessed and claimed or tried to be bought, or were offered bribes, or were otherwise tried to convince them to change sides. I have received an answer to this parliamentary question that offends the dignity not only of me as the MPs of the people, but also of all the MPs and of this assembly. If anything, this Assembly should be unique, and this is about representatives of the citizens sitting in this assembly and the only people elected by the citizens sitting in this assembly. The answer I received reads the following: The Law on Local Elections regulates the election and termination of the mandate of the Committee of the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit. Under the provisions of Article 2(1) of that Act, committees shall be elected for four years. The law prescribed that committees be elected on the basis of lists of political parties and their coalitions and lists proposed by groups of citizens. In Article 31(2) of the same Act, it is established, etc.... The authorities of the municipality are set out in Article 27. The Law on Local Self-Government, which is the SO made up of committees, the President of the Municipality, the Municipal Council and the Municipal Administration. I am further told that the assembly's president is elected, as the president of the municipality is elected, as members of the municipal council are elected. You know what, this is such an insult to parliamentaryism in Serbia that I have no words for this answer that I have received. I, as a national MP in the National Assembly who passed the same law, need no one, and at least the Government of the Republic of Serbia to convince the provisions of this law. Please, we don't ask these parliamentary questions for order, we don't ask for reform and we don't ask for time to pass on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 11.00 hours. We ask these parliamentary questions because we were chosen by the citizens to represent their interests and because these same citizens are interested in the answer to those questions that we are asking and because we are interested in answering the questions that we are asking in the end. This is not an answer to my parliamentary question. I'll ask you one more time. I ask Alexander Vukic, does he know what methods local SNS officials use when transposing authorities, given examples throughout Serbia? Please, let me have the answer that is worthy of this National Assembly. Please, let me get an answer that makes any sense and ask the President of the Assembly to provide me with such an answer. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government, I believe, will try to humiliate the Assembly in every sense, the executive government is always trying to impose legislation as a more important branch of government. However, it is up to the Assembly not to allow it. It is not enough that we are demeaning this Assembly ourselves by canceling the vote until it is voted in the manner that the Government of the Republic of Serbia responds and thus directly annuls the will of the MPs, but we should also allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia to humiliate the MPs and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this way. So I ask you, on behalf of the defence of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia, to pass on to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to ensure that I receive a meaningful and accurate answer to the parliamentary question I have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8257	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8258	I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture about the media strategy, the implementation of the media strategy, the formation of regional public services, that is, the decentralisation of the media space in Serbia and the resistance of interested media space decentralisation organisations in Serbia. In fact, the state monopoly in the media was abolished in 1990 and then there were 1,500 printed media, 58 radio stations, five social-owned television stations. Then came a major private initiative, and we already had 35 private TVs and 13 social media houses in 1994. In 2007, the U.S. The law on the capital and the Law on Local Self-Government halted the transformation of media ownership in Serbia to a large extent, and in 2005, municipal and city authorities owned 113 local, electronic media. From 2005 to 2011, 58 media were privatised and all were privatised through auction, except for NIN. Half of the privatisations were not successful, even in excellent media houses such as Ibar News, RTV Valjevo, Radio Sombora, etc. In Vojvodina, only Radio Srbobran improved its program and obedience after privatisation. Fifty-six percent of customers had no experience in the media business. For what? Because the Privatisation Act envisioned the same privatisation process for the media as for all other companies and that the media were simply bought as potatoes at the market without any idea of the owner to continue its work, to improve its performance and to improve the privatisation and exit of the state from the media space. After the 2002 and 2003 laws that were to arrange the media space in Serbia, the situation became, we think, even worse. So today eastern Serbia except for private TV Best, there is no television house that works. The "TV Kraljevo" has failed, the "TV Cačak", the big problems are "TV Kruševac" and how many media houses have problems after privatisation we could talk about for a long time. This is why a Kragujevac initiative was launched in 2007 in front of the local self-government of the Public Enterprise Radio-Television Kragujevac, Novi Pazar, Nis and Pančevo. The idea was to make in Serbia what exists in many EU countries, to form six regional public services. The initiative has finally found good soil in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Culture and a media strategy has been adopted that envisions the formation of six regional public services. However, immediately after the adoption of a media strategy, interesting, primarily Belgrade media organisations who wanted as well as in everything else to manage their entire life in Serbia, including media life, felt that the strategy was contrary to European principles, regardless of what the European Commission's 2012 Report on Serbia's progress, published in October 2012, required accelerated implementation of the media strategy and was said to be absolutely in line with European principles. What interests me in the question of Parliament, since a media strategy on the formation of six regional public services has not yet been implemented, I ask the Government and the Ministry of Culture if they are exposed to the great pressures of interested organisations to change or not to implement the strategy for the development of information on the establishment of regional public services? Then, when the Ministry of Culture and the Government will implement a media strategy on the formation of six regional public services, in the end, when the Ministry and Government will deliver a follow-up and necessary set of media laws, because it is an initiative signed by 35,000 Nish citizens and it is about the development of information on the decentralisation of media space, based on which citizens would not only look at the "Belgrade Chronicle", but rather receive a guarantee for objective and timely information on events relevant to their environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8259	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8260	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, as is known, there are medical institutions that organise the stay, treatment and rehabilitation of users on the basis of the instructions of the competent medical committee, the Commission of the Republic of the PIO Fund and can provide accommodation, food preparation, drinks, third parties. Of course, these institutions must meet certain standards. I ask the Ministry of Tourism, do health institutions have to categorize housing units, point out the prices of their services in them and can they lease a accommodation unit outside their business space and sublet them to third parties?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8261	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8262	I recently asked the government if it would be fenced from a rally held outside the Assembly, attended by extremist organizations, along with the minister of justice. I asked that for political reasons, because if you don't get in the way of people who make lists, then they'll keep making lists and now we see that another man is put on some list, I'm talking about (not understood) by ours, these are your coalition partners in Arangelovac. Obviously it's not worth asking. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice Selakovic again, and on Saturday, unfortunately, I wasn't there, he said he was going to teach LDP how to write criminal charges, because we filed a misapplication for his participation at an undeclared meeting and he said it was done, reports are being written against the organisers, so I'm going to ask a few questions, it's going to be Mr Selakovic's training, when he wasn't good at the time he was learning. First question, does Mr. Selakovic know how to determine who's the organizer of someone together? The answer is – it is determined by the application set out in the summary. How is the organizer determined if the meeting is not reported? Well, in a court of law or a judge's office. Erem, the meeting is not registered because it cannot be registered, because according to the Law on Public Meeting, rallying around the assembly is forbidden, in front of the Assembly at the time of the session. Therefore, the meeting has not been reported, so the organiser is not known to the LDP. We filed a misdemeanor against Selakovic for three reasons: he led the column, spoke at the rally, and is the minister of justice. If he's taking it out now, so he says, it's not me, it's someone else, whether they're students, whether they're ours or yours 1389, so the right place is for a judge to say who's the organizer together. So I hope he answers me, if he learns, determines and determines who the organizer is, and I hope he responds to his civic duty, to appear at the judge for violations. His attempt to teach LDP something, including LDP to teach it. On Saturday, he also said that one LDP MP wanted to speak at the rally. That was me. I didn't want to talk at the rally, I was coming out of the building, yeah, they were whistled, but it's not enough to take off the badge, so become a Euroradical, you can call yourself Euroradical, but the Euroradical is still in the soul of the radical. Remember when Nikolic took an oath here, had an inauguration, the same thing happened, brought his noises, to whistle at us, and to touch him. It's proof that when a badge is taken off, it doesn't get smarter and better. I came out of the congregation and they whistled at me. Why did I go out the front door when I could go to Kosovo, knowing it was expensive? Gentlemen, Euroradicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8263	Mr. Ostović, please ask a question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8264	There'll be questions, I've got five minutes. Gentlemen Euroradicals, when Vojislav Seselj, Chief Seselj led the black shirt squads 20 years ago, I was not afraid of them. (President: Mr. Ostović, this has nothing to do with the parliamentary question, please stick to the Rules of Procedure. ) Please, I don't understand, please don't interrupt me, so I wasn't afraid 20 years ago when Chief Seselj was wearing his black shirts, and Mr Selakovic, if he thinks I wanted to speak, let him ask a few questions at the time of his chief of staff, Nikolic and Adjutant Vukic, that's true, if he's young enough, because at the time he was playing with buckets and buckets. Well, my question is...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8265	I ask the People's MPs not to get out of place and allow me to run this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8266	You see, on Saturday, Mr. Justice Minister said that an MP wanted to support the assembly and speak, and he was reprimanded. It's me. I guess I'm right about the public to explain that I didn't want to talk at the rally and I didn't want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8267	Mr. Ostojić, then you should have attended the session where Minister Selakovic was at and that you should have replicated what he...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8268	But I have a question for Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8269	Since the time is up, you have no right anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8270	How did the time go when you took 25 seconds from me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8271	And I've added that to you, five minutes and 29 seconds you speak, thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that politics has entered every segment of our lives, every bit of our lives, even sports. That is why I am asking the resolution minister for sport and youth Mrs. Alisi Maric, as well as the president of FSS Tomislav Karadzic. I could also ask this question on the Committee on Sports and Youth, that it exists, but yet I say, we are the only country in the world that has a resolute ministry, and there is no Assembly Committee on Youth and Sports. The same questions, as I'm going to ask these things, are being solved there. In fact, what happened, the FIFA World Football Organization has approved the satellite state, the phantom state of Kosovo, that its teams and its teams can play international friendly games. In fact, four days ago in Tokyo, it was the World Football Federation Executive Board that decided that young Kosovo teams, women's teams and all KIM teams can play international friendly games, and we all know that Kosovo is not recognised in the UN, that the Kosovo Football Federation is not recognised in the FIFA or UEF. However, the heads of the FIFA, they were not allowed to go public and to report this information, but the forms of the announcement were given to reporters by the decisions of their Executive Board. For the first time, this happened on May 21st when a decision was made that the Kosovo teams and the Kosovo team could play in international frameworks. However, the decision was withdrawn. Since it was withdrawn, the football alliance thus said it was a major diplomatic victory for Serbia's football. This spring, when the decision was made and the decision was withdrawn, that Kosovo teams could not play, many countries applied for their teams and their teams played in international frameworks, were primarily Giblartar, Aphasia and Republika Srpska. However, the FIFA did not consider these matters, their executive board did not consider. I'm interested in something else, so something else doesn't happen, that the "domino" effect doesn't happen. In fact, since FIFA has allowed players from KIM, unrecognized countries of Kosovo, to play international friendly games, I'm afraid other world sports alliances don't do the same. So we will have the opportunity to put their team in handball, basketball, volleyball, or in some individual sport, to compete in international frameworks. That's why the state and the football alliances have to react urgently to protect the state's interests. I'm afraid of something else, that the FIFA, perhaps tomorrow, does not order the FSS to play a friendly game between Kosovo and Serbia. To meet us, they will suggest neutral terrain, perhaps so will The Hague, and the judge may be Meron, the best judge in the world. I ask the question to Mrs Alice Maric and Tomislav Karadzic, how will the state react to this? How it will protect the country's national interests and sports interests, since we have so far heard no reaction from these institutions, neither the ministry nor the Serbia Football Federation, headed by Tomislav Karadzic. The question wants to be answered by the DSS, the whole nation expects the question to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8273	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I was not afraid of Chief Cedomir Jovanovic, nor when he had 176 MPs behind him, and even less of you gentlemen are afraid of you now. When it comes to asking questions, and when it comes to corruption, I ask the question of the first Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of the fight against corruption, organised crime -- what about criminal charges, filed by a certain Tomica Stankovic from the village of Klenja, the municipality of Golubac, against the current president of the municipality, Zoran Pajkic, and several others, at the beginning, in the first half of 2010, and in connection with corruption, what was it all offered to him, in order then, Zoran Pajkic, as the opposition's committee, to support the election for the president of the municipality? I also ask the question, what about the fact that committee member Ana Radomirovic, who later supported the president of the municipality of Golubac, Zoran Pajkic, was it true that she founded a working relationship in the tourist organisation "Golubac", immediately after the arrival of the DS to power? Did she come to that job? Did she receive travel expenses, or did she sit in the municipality of Pogorec, or in the territory of the township of Kostolac, where she lived? I also ask the question, that the other two councilors, who were then not belonging to DS and the new coalition, did they acquire anything from mobile or immovable property, immediately after the formation of government in the municipality of Golubac, by DS and whether this new property is the subject of corruption?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8275	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Dronjak and Ljubica Milosevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Mr. Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Government, I have called on the sittings to attend also Vlajko Senić and Ivica Kjetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Vesna Hreljac Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Business, Mr. Dejan Dabetic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Industry and Aleksandar Simović, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Industry – Public Debt. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a common principle and single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 6, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 24 of the agenda. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8276	Madam Chairman, Article 107 - Mr Ostojic's misbehavior, was injured, so that I would not mention his name if he did not seek a replica based on this. It is inappropriate to call the president of the state a name that is not like any Serb to say so, let alone the president of the state. I think the LDP organisation has been treating this country as an anti-Serb element since its origin, and so it has been throughout its course since the beginning, as it was in 1985 in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8277	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8278	You have no right to a replica. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir. I'll stay for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8279	Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8280	You can't have the same member twice in a row, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8281	Okay. Articles 106, 107 and 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8282	You first said Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8283	You interrupted me, I wanted to list Article 107, Article 27, Article 106. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8284	Please, sir. I'll stay, so you can't go from 107 to 106. You really think I'm a completely unintelligent person. Please, you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8285	Why are you interrupting me twice?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8286	We continue to work at last. The word is Radmil Gerov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8287	Article 27, way to conduct the session. The Honorable Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by hurting the centrifugal MP, Zoran Ostojić, did not give you the right to advertise Article 107, which he has the right to do and was challenged by the discussion of the previous SNS speaker. So he advertised Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, concerning the discussion of the MPs who spoke before him. Mr Ostojic has the right to advertise the same member as the one related to the discussion of the previous speaker. So in that sense, you violated Article 27, and I ask you not to continue during the session to violate the Rules of Procedure, to give Mr. Zoran Ostojić your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8288	Therefore, Article 103(2). The Rules of Procedure say - the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, which has already been pointed out. So the previous speaker pointed to the violation of Rule 107. Mr. Ostojić answered immediately afterwards and advertised the same member again. So it clearly says in the Rules of Procedure that he can't do the same. You think it's a new injury, I don't think so. If you wish, in the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? We do. ) Okay, in the voting day, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Mr. Ostojic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8289	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8290	Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8291	I'm advertising a breach of Article 109. The previous speaker put it in my mouth that I was talking about the president of the state. That's the wrong interpretation, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8292	Mr. Stay, I'll stop you right now. Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly refer to a warning to the MP. I don't know how I could have broken that Article 109. Rules of Procedure, since I didn't give anyone a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8293	You could have.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8294	We're going back to work. We're moving on to a common principle... I ask the People's Messengers to allow me to hold a session and honor the dignity of the National Assembly. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8295	Madam Chairman, since it is obvious that the conditions for starting work have not been met, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 112. I ask you to set a break until you concentrate on running this session, to continue to work properly, because this is not the kind of session that looks like this high house, not like the Parliament we're sitting in right now. Mrs. Kalanovic is here. She wants us to discuss the agenda. Please set a break and we'll start working after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8296	Mr. Milivoevich, you've probably gotten the wrong impression. I'm very focused on holding the session, and that's why we're continuing the session. So we're going to work on the agenda. We move on to a joint principled and unified search on: Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany... (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8297	Madam Chairman, I can always advertise Article 27, and here I am adding Article 32. We've been called anti-Serbs and you've been silent. Then it was said that I mentioned the president of the state, and I mentioned 20 years ago a man who was chief of chief and his name was Tomislav Nikolic. He had nothing to do with the state back then. He became president of the state only this year. How can you let someone in the congregation tell someone it's anti-Serb? You insult the dignity of the assembly. What are we? If we want to be offended, believe it's hard for someone with us to, but we've never used it. You know what, to colleagues who would like to be insulted, I suggest they come up with something more original, more recent. That's 20 years old, when the chief was making lists. So now you're making coalitions with lists-making organisations. I'm not insulting anything, I'm just telling the facts. The chief who led 176 MPs, you weren't afraid of him. I just wanted to say I don't want to go out Kosovo and the back entrance, whoever's in the assembly. I wasn't more afraid of them than I was 20 years ago. Why would I do that today? You weren't afraid of Chief Jovanovic with 176 MPs, but you were looking for immunity for shootings at a bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8298	Mr. Ostović, you've advertised Article 32's injury. Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Ostojić, from Place: I Member 27.) Okay, you've advertised a violation of members 27 and 32. We have already explained Article 27 to the previous speaker, and Article 32 says, "The vice president of the National Assembly is helping the president of the National Assembly do business in his work." Given the fact that I believe you've used your time in breaching the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to take two minutes of your MP's time, which you used to hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Ostojić, from the site: On what basis? ) pursuant to Article 103(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'll read the article, make it clear to everyone. "In the case of Section 7... "I'm sorry, this is attitude 8. I'll read the previous point of view. "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to make use of the rights provided for by this member of the People's Parliament, which does not comply with the provisions laid down in Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or otherwise abuses the rights provided for in this Article, the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. In the case referred to in Article 7, the President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to use the time used by the MP, misusing the right of the position of the first member, to subtract from the total amount of time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda if his parliamentary group remains time to search. "So I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Do any of the other applicants want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Does anyone else advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Earlier, Mr. Rističević reported on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8299	What am I gonna do? I called her earlier. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of article 108 of the 1st and 2. "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the session of the National Assembly. Because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give the measures of caution, word-absorbing or estrangement from the session. "It is related to article 107, which says that at a session of the National Assembly it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. So it's easy to measure a dead wolf's tail. It's absolutely not right. The man hasn't been found guilty yet. He's right where he is. The Croats bought "Storm", "Glass" and judgment, and this is how we judge our own. It's not nice and it's not correct, and it's the opposite of doing to the Rules of Procedure what one of my colleagues did, so, not prejudicing what's going to be there in the end. One more thing, this is an insult to a complete Serbian people. The word chief is the name for Chief Pavelic. During the rule of the chief, about a million Serbs died and it was the beginning of ethnic cleansing of Serbs from their centuries-old space, which was completed with action "Storms" and "Blash", Gotovina and Marchak...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8300	Mr. Risticevic, this has nothing to do with the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and give a word to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8301	Madam Chairman, the word chief can only apply to Chief Pavelic...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8302	Mr. Risticevic, I'm going to take away the time you've used from you from the parliamentary group as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8303	You can take it away from me. Let me finally say... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8304	I'll turn off your microphone. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8305	Rules of Procedure of Rule 108, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8306	Mr. Arsic, that member has already been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8307	Closer definition of breach of the Rules of Procedure. As no court case has ever taken place against me, so I've never had any needs...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8308	Mr. Arsic, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8309	I never had the need to call for immunity, which is why, as head of Cedomir Jovanovic, I had nothing to do with organised crime and I was never in Schiller.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8310	Mr. Arsic, please help me run this session. Is anyone else reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Predrag Mijatovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexander Jugovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Predrag Mijatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8311	Dear Chairman, several times lately we have warned you that the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8312	Mr. Jugovic, you didn't specify which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8313	Article 108. "All right, at the National Assembly session, she's taking care of... "
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8314	Article 108 has already been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8315	That's exactly what I'm talking about. Therefore, the MP may report several times to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, but various violations of the same member of the Rules of Procedure. So you unfoundedly took the word of Mr. Veroljub Arsic and Mr. Ostojić. Simply, Article 108 is most applicable when it comes to holding a session and when it comes to you. Lately in the last few sessions, you are not looking out in the right way about how to conduct a session of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8316	And there's a way for you to change that. Therefore, initiate the initiative. As for the infringement of article 108. Rules of Procedure, I think I explained that he wasn't a injured member. If you want us to make a statement about the injury in the voting day, you're welcome to say so. (Alexander Jugovic, from the place: I don't want to. ) The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8317	You just called me, so you skipped me. Article 104 is an offensive statement on the parliamentary group. I don't think anybody advertised that. I think if we call ourselves Euroradicals, it's kind of offensive, because it's misstated. Otherwise, I don't mind the translation of other people's words. I agree, the chief's in charge, so be it, President. So I think it's Mr. Jovanovic, you can call him a LDP partifier, because that means the same thing as Duce, which means the chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8318	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8319	I am advocating the violation of Article 103, indent 4, which you, Madam Chairman, have violated, since he states that the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured, by acting as president and to explain what these infringements consist of. All those who came forward explained why using the words is a chief and a variety of other terms used here by the LDP parliamentary group president, which is why it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and allowing such a termology to be used. That is why Mr Risticevic, I can say for any other MP from any other parliamentary group, is absolutely right and has the right to explain why this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's your violation of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman. You allow such terms, which violate the reputation and dignity of this National Assembly and the MPs, to be used. You can't take away their word while they explain why it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I find it scandalous what's going on in the assembly today. I didn't expect this rhetoric, and I didn't expect you to allow it. I appeal to all MPs to refrain from such indelicate and degutant, for Serbian citizens, comments. This applies to all Serbian citizens because we represent them. Please continue to hold the session in the manner in which the Rules of Procedure and the function of the first or second among the same, whatever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8320	Thank you. You are absolutely right, Mrs Joksimovic, but I really cannot influence every MP and in his way of expression. I've tried to get back to the agenda many times, but you all won't let me. Please, Mr. Milivojevic continues with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8321	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of Rule 101. The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. Please set a break of 10, 15 minutes, consult with the heads of Parliament, because the way you conduct the session of the Assembly, we're not going anywhere. Mrs. Verica Kalanovic came with the intention of working on the agenda. You have disabled the beginning of the session by having a scandalous session of the Assembly. Please set a break, concentrate, give 15 minutes of rest, consult with the heads of the parliamentary groups and then start working afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8322	Mr. Milivoevich, for the second time, you're telling me to take a break. You might be tired, I'm not. We haven't even started on the agenda, and it's in the interest of all Serbian citizens that we've been doing something here, not to discuss the breach of the Rules of Procedure for an hour. It's not my fault, and if you're not happy with my work, please use the Rules of Procedure and try to change things if you want to. The word is Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8323	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is Article 103, you told Mr. Milivojevic that he continues to suffer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not him going on, but you're continuing to hurt the Rules of Procedure. The only person who during this session of the Assembly can violate the Rules of Procedure, read the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is the chairman. Because he reacts, or doesn't react in a certain way. It is obvious that we believe that you are not responding correctly to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so do not transfer to the MPs, the responsibility for not leading the Assembly in the way that the Rules of Procedure prescribes it. No one insists on MPs to harm the Rules of Procedure, nor does it continue. The only one who can continue to harm the Rules of Procedure is you and you do it all the time. So please don't take your inability to hold a session to transfer to the MPs, because we are not responsible for it. We have neither elected you to the place where you are, nor do we feel that you are conducting the session properly. What we have the right to do is, I guess, the only right you can't take away from us, even though it's obvious that this ruling majority can do whatever it wants in this congregation, it's to point to the violations of the Rules of Procedure that you're doing by your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8324	Thank you. I'm really going to try to run the session according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's MPs to allow me to do so. I'd like you all to sit in this place and see what it's like to want to run a session according to the Rules of Procedure, and... No problem, I told everyone there were ways to start an initiative for my shift, go ahead. The word is made by MP Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8325	I order that you have injured Article 27. You gave Mr. Mijatovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8326	Mr. Stay, let me tell you something. We've been listening to article 27 for a while...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8327	A fellow MP was called to article 104, and you gave him your word, it's a replica. Then in that article...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8328	First, let me tell you something, you're yelling at me and I don't think that's right. We've already heard about article 27, we're going back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8329	I'm sorry to yell, I won't do it anymore, but if you're breaking into my word I have to raise my voice, I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8331	I had no intention of offending anyone and apologizing if anyone was offended. Mr. Mijatovic said well even though he shouldn't have gotten the word by Article 104. The chief means leader. I was talking about the events 20 years ago, the one who made the lists, the one who made the lists. The lists are being made today, and his heirs are making a coalition with them and participating in the myths. I'm sorry, the guy who made the lists 20 years ago was making...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8332	Mr. Ostović, is it always my fault when the Rules of Procedure is broken? The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is go back to the breach of the Rules of Procedure if I did, because now you're replicating and it's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8333	Did you give a word as a replica with a breach of the Rules of Procedure? As long as you give your word as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, we'll get back to you. We're smaller, but we're more active.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8334	All right, now I'm gonna break up with practice. Thank you. We're moving to the agenda point. This is a common principled single search on: - Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade (project "Improvement of the Technology of Exploitation in RV Kolubar in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce the impact on the environment") - Proposal for a law on the avoidance of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters, - Proposal for a law on the validation of contracts between the Republic of Serbia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes and property taxes, - a proposal for a law on the implementation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of the Republic of Serbia's proposals for the implementation of health-related to the Republic of Serbia's legislation. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint and principled single search on the agenda proposals under points 6, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 24, and before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups has come to you in material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1) and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: - a bill on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt on May, under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade (a project "Improving the Technology of Exploitation in RV Kolubar in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce the impact on the environment") - a proposal for a law on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes by the Government of the Republic of Serbia - a proposal for a bill to confirm contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to taxes on Serbia's income tax and the Government of the Republic of Serbia's implementation of the Treaty on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8335	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my great pleasure every time I come to the National Assembly because I first see representatives of Serbian citizens from the territory of the country and most often hear about problems that are in municipalities and cities throughout Serbia. I've had the pleasure of being here many times in the National Assembly since the formation of the government, just presenting laws in the area of finance and economy. Personally, I think it's perfectly natural that since the formation of the government on July 27th to this day, the largest number of laws has been from this area, looking at the overall situation, economically and financially, in our country and looking at all the problems our economy faces. I am very pleased that today, again here in this high house, I represent five laws relating to the promotion of the work of economic operators and the confirmation of a decision relating to the Republic Health Insurance Office. Before I begin to present the law, I would like to read one of the sentences from Prime Minister Dacic's exhibition in the formation of the government, because it seems to me to speak in a very picturesque way about the objectives and intentions of this government both from the beginning of formation and in the next period, when it comes to economy: "This government will be committed to creating a business environment that will provide our businesses with similar conditions, if not better conditions for working with countries in our environment. Also, this government will do everything to stop the fall of the national economy, to ensure its recovery and strengthening." In this light, the proposed laws, the first of which refers to the improvement in that area that we all agree to represent one of the most prospective areas in our country, which is the area of energy. I think we all agree that when we talk about improving energy, we talk on the one hand about the part of using our potentials, and on the other hand, about our increased concern for the conservation of the environment, because these two areas are inextricably tied up. Therefore, the project, which concerns the granting of guarantees to the German Development Bank for the project "Improvement of Exploitation Technology at the Kolubara mining base, in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts", should be seen with all three aspects, both technologically and socially. When we talk about technology, we talk about ensuring the use of lignite of a uniform quality, in order to raise the efficiency of work first Nikola Tesla and the Morava Termo Power Plant, and then the Colubares in general. When we talk about ecological, we're talking about reducing atmospheric pollution in power plants using coal from the Colubara. When we talk about social security, we talk about the safe and continuous delivery of coal and rational management of natural resources, which is very important for the citizens, but also for the economy. The guarantees of the Republic of Serbia amount to 74m euros, of which 65 credit is on favourable terms, and nine million is a grant or a guarantee. All MPs sitting in this assembly will remember a programme that the German Development Bank, together with various ministries and municipalities and cities in Serbia, has conducted both in the area of water supply and in the area of waste water and waste management, in the area of energy efficiency. Once again, it is a time to remind ourselves that most often these projects were carried out in several phases and that each stage meant credit on one side under more favourable conditions, and on the other hand, the grant that the German government had committed to the citizens and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The second law is the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters. The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus have seen intense growth in the total trade trade over the past few years. To remind you, in 2011 compared to 2010, total trade growth between our two countries was about 50% higher, both in the area of exports and in the area of imports. So the total growth records a significant increase compared to the previous period. That is nowhere near what the potential of the two countries' mutual trade exchange is, but it represents a significant shift compared to the previous period and a total improvement in the relationship between our two countries. For the first 10 months of 2012, the total exchange between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus also recorded significant growth. I want to remind all those involved in trade trade with the countries of the former Soviet Union and the formation of a common union between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan and certain changes in customs regulations. For these very reasons, on the one hand, in an increased trade exchange, an increased number of cases in front of customs authorities and one and the other countries, on the other hand, in an uninterrupted change of customs rules which are also related to the EU harmonisation process in Serbia, and in Belarus for the harmonisation process concerning the customs union, we propose this law, which will significantly regulate customs relations, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the Republic of Belarus. The aim is to properly implement customs regulations and to strengthen the fight against customs offences, to combat smuggling and other violations, to bring customs systems into line, to perfect customs techniques, to solve problems arising from the application of customs rules that differ in Serbia compared to Belarus. The next three laws are laws already in place, when it comes to Serbia in relation to exchanges with other countries, ahead of the assembly, and concern the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Serbia and other countries. International double taxation is gaining more and more importance in both the world and ours, realizing that today's global market is looking for roads to allow economic operators to do better business as possible, to allow a continuous and more intensive flow of capital, to enable companies from one country to open up to another, without any obstacles. Serbia has also directed its activities in this direction, so today's proposals for a law on the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Serbia and Georgia, Tunisia and Canada, will expand the number of countries with which we have signed agreements on the avoidance of double taxation to over 50. In this way, Serbia will influence the process of attracting foreign investment, opening foreign companies with reduced administrative procedures with us, both when it comes to investing capital and when it comes to employment. Serbia is involved in international financial transactions in a easier way. I will remind you that today with countries such as Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, Slovakia, Switzerland, Spain, Austria, the Czech Republic, these agreements are very successful. Today, Serbia is recording an increase in trade exchange after signing such agreements with countries with which it has already done so in the previous period. I will also remind myself that the law removes double income taxation, eliminates tax obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, technologies and labour between countries that sign the agreement. Finally, in addition to this set of five laws, the draft decision to give consent to the 2012 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund is also on the agenda. I want to remind you what it means to make a decision like this. The previous period marked that after the adoption of the budget, the Republic Health Insurance Institute is making its financial plan for next year. However, the financial plan did not include neutral funds from the previous year, which significantly reduced the planned budget for next year on the reconciliation of commitments to pharmacies and pharmacies. By changing this decision, in planning for the following year, the Republic Health Insurance Fund has the possibility, but also the obligation to use unused funds already in the planning process of the previous year, as well as the funds foreseen by the budget for next year. This is a way to do more proper planning, but this is a way and in a far better way to supply people with medicines, and to reconcile our obligations to those of whom we order medicines. We think a decision like this will be very useful for both citizens and for the economy of Serbia. At this point, I would also like to mention that a decision like this has been initiated by the DRI, but is supported by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, in order to introduce both financial discipline and more transparent and rational spending of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8336	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8337	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, if you'll allow me, Madam Chairman, let me just say that I really understand what kind of problems you are in when you chair the assembly. I truly understand that there are some discomforts that arise when MPs call on the Rules of Procedure for breach of the Rules of Procedure or report for replication. You have to understand one fact. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure are literally in one reverse proportion to the contents of the agenda. The less interesting these laws are on the agenda for MPs, the more the Rules of Procedure and the Replic Institute will be used. So you must understand that parliament is the place where certain political views are faced, certain political views, because parliament is the best place for it, not the street. Therefore, when you apply the Rules of Procedure, you must bear that in mind and not understand anything personal when MPs, at least when LDP MPs address and ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure. I think today's advertising of the Rules of Procedure has just served that purpose, that certain political views should be expressed and that is completely legitimate. Let's get back to the agenda, which is ratification of international contracts. Most of all, I will remain on this loan to Serbia's Elektroprivreda. We have no doubts about the objectives that are to be achieved with this loan, and this sustainable energy development and environmental protection are really necessary. Where credit is taken to that end, it shall be fully justified. The budget law in its Article 3 also provides for a guarantee for the loan. As for the legal cover for the loan, that's totally fine. However, I would point out specifically and stress the fact that out of 74m euros, the loan is ninem euros in donations, a donation from the German government, the German state. It is important to be aware that these are grants and not small funds. When we analyse this bill, we will see that Serbia provides a guarantee of 74m euros, because there is one dose of retention by the lender and I think one precaution of the German government, when they are afraid that maybe the ninem euros donation will not be used most fully and used. It's now talking about some kind of country's credit rating, because if there's a possibility, and a small possibility of not taking advantage of the winning donation in the best possible way. I don't think that's commendable for this country at all. There's another segment of this part of the ninem-euro donation, and it's about how we treat these donors, those countries that give us grants, and we literally need every single euro. I would particularly draw attention to all ministers, that when they are planning any gatherings with extremists in front of the Serbian Parliament in the future, they will consider when the EU states are called at the meeting, when the International Court of Justice is attacked, that, in that case, they, in some part of their attack, are also attacking those countries from which we are receiving and how much assistance. So we simply show to what extent the policy that should be far more progressive today and far more pro-European than that of the 1990s policy, which in itself meant this kind of expression of dissatisfaction, such as the extremist outbursts in Belgrade in front of the Assembly, or the National Assembly of Serbia and in general in the whole state. Normally, I expect this government to be serious and will make sure that the ministers no longer demonstrate on the street, but every kind of dissatisfaction to show up where it is supposed to be, which is in the government's session and that they together create a policy that will not be a basis, there will be no infrastructure and bases for extremists who almost daily make lists for the shooting, making lists of unspeakable people. To a large extent, then, what has been declared by the government, that is, this government, is different from what is said on the streets by those who greatly support this government. When we talk about EPS, we cannot forget the fact that in Serbia, the price of electricity is very low. The electricity price is 0.05 euros per kilowatt time. She's far the lowest in the region. However, we should not forget that the average salary in Serbia is around 380 euros. We must not forget that every third person in Serbia is unemployed, and those who are employed know to what extent their work can be charged and how much it is again on a very low level. When it comes to social cards, when it comes to new tariff systems, it must also be taken into account to what extent any collection of electricity would affect Serbian citizens. Serbia's electricity has been mentioned very often in recent days in terms of the reorganisation of the overall EPS, and we cannot lose sight of the fact that this reorganisation is again in the function of one centralisation, because it is largely jeopardising Elektro Vojvodina, and it is jeopardising it in such a way that according to the reorganisation plan that the Elektro Vojvodina account is also being transferred to Belgrade, the entire property being transferred to Belgrade, which is explained by some efficiency that is so needed and which is lacking in the functioning of this public enterprise. You know how, by its definition and mode of operation, a public company carries that risk with it not to be functional, efficient and when a public enterprise, such as Elektro Vojvodina, has a 97% charge on the territory of Vojvodina, when it is a positive business, it is already a miracle unseen, and when in this way it wants to save EPS, along with the many loans given to this company, then it is incomprehensible why little in a different way is uncapitalised by the EPS, but destroys Elektro Vojvodina. It will be destroyed because whatever was centralized, whatever was entered into that part of the centralized government in the end turned out to be completely irrational and led to loss and that led to the collapse of that segment, anything entered into the common register, into the common centre or otherwise centralized. Elektro Vojvodina is just one of a series of problems that have occurred within six months since this government was established. It began with those difficult decisions of the Constitutional Court, and it continued with the amendments to the Budgetary System Act, and then the issue of the Vojvodine Development Bank was raised, and then there was such a strange vote on the draft law on the budgetary system, i.e. amendments and additions to the budget system initiated by the Vojvodina Assembly, when at the first moment the law was voted on, it was given to the majority in this Parliament, and with a reason that the technical error was practically anneededed by this vote and the legislative proposal was ultimately not voted. You allow yourself, when I speak to you, I mean this authority, this parliamentary majority, to be distracted during the vote, to be completely uninterested which consequences will produce your vote, because that is actually your decision. You're all MPs. When pressing the key, you vote yes or against you in fact confirm or suggest that one legislative proposal be rejected. This is not a naive thing at all, and that is why you should really get more serious when on the agenda of the topic, among other things, and that Vojvodina needs to be given a balanced regional development. We have come into a situation of this great enlightenment, of this strong commitment to equal regional development, of helping more developed regions to those who are less developed, that Vojvodina has a problem with the average salary which is far below the average salary of the Republic of Serbia, that Vojvodina has a problem with budget financing because insufficient funds are transferred to Vojvodina, and that few of the powers entrusted to it or which it cannot finance from the incomes of the originals left to it, nor can it do so through the transfer from the Republic budget. All in all, when we speak of ratifications of international contracts, we are in fact confirming the work of this government on the international ground. It is contracts that are our relationship with the international public, with the international legal system, so if we have that ambition to be part of the international community, if we have the ambition to be part of the EU, then we must act in accordance with the EU, those EU standards. When we talk about ratification of international agreements or we talk about the Law on the Budget System or when we talk about the province or its ability to survive as a province, we have to make sure that we don't lose ourselves somewhere in translation and that we don't turn into a country in terms of one state, one leader, one nation, one church, and that for minorities we don't have the hearing or the will to change that ideology a little bit, and that concept of the entire state arrangement, which is not since yesterday, and it's a very complex problem, but once we should start to change the approach to that concept, or change it as a whole. Why is it so terrible to decentralize this country? Why is it so scary to be decentralisationd or to remain decentralisationd EPS? It has been shown in the case of "Electrovodine" that it works perfectly well when there is a certain autonomy and a certain degree of independence in such a successful public enterprise.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8338	The word is made by Minister Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8339	Dear People's MPs, I entered the Assembly this morning thinking that these are life-interesting topics and, to be perfectly honest, I don't like to hear that the breach of the Rules of Procedure lasted an hour because of the inattractiveness of the points I'm about to give an opening statement. I understand that I am also concerned with politics that attractive topics are political topics, but I see from some of my dealings and state affairs and politics that to a good extent and economic issues are intertwined with political issues, and we must carefully address the facts when we talk about economic issues so as not to rule out big and accumulated political issues and dissatisfaction. Let me give a few clarifications, if I wasn't precise enough in the opening presentation or if my opening presentation was somewhat shorter than it should have been. The issue of guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. a guarantee defined by the budget to the German Development Bank, and according to the loan, and according to the grant, is a common thing. This was the case in 2000 when we received a grant to resolve water supply issues in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and we received 60% loans in 2004 and 40% of the grant to solve water supply issues in eight cities and municipalities. I remind you that four were from Vojvodina – Vršac, Sombor, Pančevo and Sremska Mitrovica. From central Serbia - Sabac, Kraljevo, Smederevo and Loznica. The credit was 60%, and 40% was a grant, and the guarantee for the purpose of spending was the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what projects were carried out on the territory of the municipality. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development at the time was in front of the government, as the project bearer, and that at one point ten million grenades with full work completed by nine million. The German Development Bank in its visit, where I was from Serbia's side representative of the Republic of Serbia, expressed its special gratitude and identified those spent million euros to produce technical documentation, to include 12 other municipalities in the project in the second phase, which has been done. So there's no mistrust here because someone demonstrates in front of the mouth or the National Assembly, but this is a common practice. The German Development Bank in front of the government of the Federal Republic of Germany provides for the use of grenades, as well as for the purpose of spending credit to the Republic of Serbia, and for the project related to Kolubara. That's the first thing. The other thing, which is connected on some basis in your discussion, is that the issue of this guarantee is something that has a series of things that can in one pretty bad way be accepted by citizens and Vojvodina and Serbia, in general. First, everything that's centralized has failed. I don't want to remind you of what happened in the previous period to the Development Bank that wasn't centralized, and I don't want to remind myself of what happened to the parts that ran the projects in the previous period. I think there's a lot that's been said in the end. I don't think that some of the things run from the level of the central authorities are wrong and directed against regionalisation and the interests of citizens of any part of our country. I think that this thesis is very dangerous because at some point certain activities, with the right to raise efficiency and rationality, etc., are centralized at the level of the whole country and to be interpreted as incurring to the interests of citizens, whether it is the AP Vojvodina or the city of Nis or any other municipality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the energy situation, let's look at what the energy situation looks like at this point. It is true that at this point we have a price that is about 0.46 relative to 0.83 euro cents per kilowatt. It's true that we have gas that has a third of the lower prices than they are marketable. If we look at where the losses of "Serbiagas" reflect, we would see that 158m euros currently owe the heat to "Serbiagas". You know what heat they are. The gas is not heated by the Trieste, because there is no pipeline. Let's look at what a total energy situation looks like and let's not isolate something that works out well and say, this is mine because it works well, when we know that EPS is the biggest heat in central Serbia. We can't look at one thing, when it suits us, from one angle, and another from another. We can't because it can affect our citizens badly because we say Vojvodina has the lowest average salary in Serbia. There isn't. You know I'm a very detailed statisticist at this point. I have an entire sector that is the former Development and Old Yugoslavia and Serbia Institute, in general, as a special sector. In 2011, it is true, Vojvodina came down below the republican average after many years and has 0.98% of GDP compared to total. Remember that southern Serbia has 0.88%, and Šumadija and Western Serbia 0.73% of that same average. It is not true that at this point, the Vojvodina has the lowest wages. Thank God he's gone, and he should be much bigger. We should all work on the lift. All my activities in the previous period are aimed at ensuring that Novi Sad connects with Croatia and Corridor 10 through Fruska Gora, with the tunnel and with the exit to Ruma, so that Srem, which is very attractive to foreign investors at the moment, is tied up. If we cast out such facts before the citizens of Serbia, in front of this high house, before the MPs, we get a picture that at this moment all of us sitting here are not thinking anything else, but that at some point we are going to take something to the government of Vojvodina and give it to the central government. It's just not true, and I couldn't feel one of those things.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8340	The word has Mrs Popovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8341	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I really do have an understanding of your position. You are part of the Republic government and there is clearly one disharmonic between the republic and the province government, because the other coalition is in power in the Republic and the other in the province. That's completely understandable. So when you talk about not thinking about it every day, at any moment, and at any time about taking something from Vojvodina, and adding it to the Republic, I understand that. So I really didn't say it that way. I've just set a few examples that have been constantly pulling and happening in the last six months, since this coalition has been in power. These are facts, so it's a much broader problem that we would now develop and conclude these problems within two minutes. However, what would I particularly point out? It's that the loan is 65m euros. Ninem euros is Germany's donations, and we guarantee 74m euros. Okay, that's fine, but even in your explanation you wrote that. I've read your argument – in case something doesn't come back, don't use it the way it's supposed to and why the dedicated loan is actually closed. I only read your explanation. You've answered that I always accept it, but I'm saying that it's actually a picture and an opportunity for us to be who we are and how the donors look at us. Independently, it's just a matter of seconds about Vojvodina. Whenever you put the average, when you put the least and the most together, and at the end of the day you get the average, when you count on the actual GDP of the Vojvodina, when you count the salaries that are in Vojvodina, then you get to the one below average again. So, I'm very sorry that Serbia still has undeveloped municipalities and cities, that their salaries and 60% of the average salary, but there was an opportunity to change that. There was an opportunity for those underdeveloped regions, underdeveloped cities and municipalities to develop. What was going on? How did the money spent for years get used?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8342	Mrs Popovic, it's been two minutes and 49 seconds. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8343	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, it was really hard for me, as an authorised representative of the DSS, in these six proposals, five laws and one decision, to find a common denominator and find some measure that I should talk about and how I should talk about. I especially felt very uncomfortable talking about our co-operation with Belarus. Let me remind you, this is the country we've imposed sanctions on, if I'm not mistaken. It was morally difficult for me to speak. I have defined myself to speak precisely of this decision, of giving consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2012, precisely for the reasons mentioned by the Minister. I'm looking at the same thing so I can see what's life for our citizens is important. I believe that this decision is very important for what is their treatment and the need to get some services that are ultimately guaranteed by the Constitution. You will all admit that it is very unusual that, at the end of 2012, when the financial plans for 2013 are adopted, and we, in the end, brought and adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and even for the Fund, talk later about the amendments and additions of the Fund for Health Insurance for 2012. Here's the thing. On the last day of 2011, on 31 December 2011, on the sub-account of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the budget was transferred, the neutral assets remained 2,661.000,00 and there were 834,078,000 dinars on the budget sub-account. I must say, the auditor made the first proposal on how to further use these funds and decided to bring these changes to the Fund's intervention. I mean, what's this all about? The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Fund for 2012 increased total revenue and revenue by 2,661,034 and, of course, increased both expenditure and expenditure, so that the total planned income and income, expenditure and expenditure are now 212,805.034 dinars. What does this mean? This increase was actually created only by the transfer of neutral funds to budget sub-accounts, unless this foreign exchange account for 2011, because of that account, of course, is being treated by our citizens abroad, so that it could not be transferred. What is very important to say is that these total expenditures and expenditures of the Republic Fund for 2012 have been increased by the same amount and in general in relation to the increases in appraisal for prescriptions. That's the whole point of this decision. What was very problematic to me, and this is written in the light of this proposal for a decision, is that the Republic Fund will continue to reconcile its obligations to all pharmacies and pharmacies, in accordance with the means available, and at the same percentage of the invoiced amount for medicines issued on a prescription for the month according to the age of debt. When such a nice bureaucratic sentence is translated into one simple language, we only get one message. The fund will, of course, continue to settle the debt, but the debt will be settled on the spoon for a very long period for those awaiting the reconciliation of their debt. Why do I say that? Last week, we adopted a set of health care laws, where health insurance and health care and the creation of public debt from health institutions. The DSS MPs have indeed expressed doubts that everything written in the laws will be possible and can be realised, especially when it comes to public debt. It's simple, from the discussion that was then conducted, from everything the Minister tried to tell us, because some things were obviously not available to her either, it says that we do not know, nor does it stand as a special part of the law, what the DSS stood for, or who made the public debt, or how much it actually amounts to, or why this debt was made, or what those who did this debt would bear, and only burdened the citizens of Serbia to pay it back. Let's look at some more facts about this. The government, when we talked about the 2013 budget, said the projected inflation in 2013 was 11%. The budget of the Fund will not grow even for this planned inflation. Then what else is waiting for us? We are expected to raise the price of medicines by 20%, because it is necessary to correct the value of the euro first, because we have an unreal euro rate when paying for medicines. The course began in June 2011, when those decisions were made to pay for the 99-euro rate, and today it is 114, if I followed correctly, I think it was so much yesterday. The wholesale imports have losses of over 20% and precisely from that fact the course is completely unrealistic. Representatives of both domestic and foreign drugs have already warned the government that at some point they will stop delivering drugs and medical equipment. So it's not just medicine, it's medical equipment. They ask the government to bring that course to the level at which it is really and everywhere possible to buy the euro. In addition, the wholesalers say that when they delivered it, they had already paid customs and had already paid VAT, so their cost is much higher. Of course, if you don't get me completely wrong, I'm not an advocate, I'm not a lobbyist, I'm not a drug dealer, I'm just the one who wants to warn the government about the seriousness of it, because the consequences will be borne by citizens. They're patients, they use services. If the drugs collect, it will, of course, be seen to each of the Serbian citizens when they have to buy the medicine. Also, what I've noticed, let's say, for dialysis material there's no increase at all, the increase is zero. Even that 11% inflation is not guaranteed. Well, it wasn't taken into account and there was no increase in the cost of dialysis material. That's what's most lifelike. A large number of citizens are asking for these services. I ask the question – is it possible that we do not take care of it? Then, one third of the drugs that are in use are from imports, two thirds are domestic drugs, but with a very high percentage of the import component, about 30 to 50%. That'll also tell you about the drug collection. So, this area called drug-gathering, I just partially touched it. These are very life-threatening issues, and we need to take care of them. It's an interesting part where the price of drugs is formed. It really sounds silly, most open to say, because in that decision they direct us, all those who are interested in reading it, I ask them to read it, because this government is giving us this decision to look at the reference countries, it gives us websites of reference countries, and for Serbia it's countries Slovenia, Croatia and Italy, so now we have sites to look at the price of the drug there. In the decision to put up sites of other reference countries for us is really a little strange. Then, from the budget of the Bureau, we see that they owe 17 billion and only have the funds until June. What's up by the end of the year, what's gonna happen by the end of the year? In the end, the government's budget is also at a deficit of 130 to 140 billion at the moment. Then, the food costs. It's life's questions. Food costs in the institution's budget are estimated to increase costs by 5% in 2013 compared to 2012. That's when we talk about this 11% projected inflation. We all know, we've been going around if we weren't users, at least we've been visiting people in hospitals, and we know how well healthcare institutions are, and what kind of menu it is, how high it is, how calorie it is, how much for a diet, it's just a question of what patients are going to eat, if we haven't found fit to increase those food costs by as much as inflation is projected. We don't even need to talk about food quality. Then, energists. Energy is projected to increase by 7.04%, and I say again inflation is 11%. Electricity, a monitoring media minister of energy, announces a 20% increase at some point that could be tomorrow. The gas's already picked up. Here, when we talked about it, the director of Serbiagas told us that the price of gas cannot be a social category, and it is a very normal reaction of someone who is also the director of Serbiagas and the MP, which is a legally impossible combination, but in this case it is very successful. Indeed, take care of how health institutions function and increase energy costs by 7.04% is non-serious. The fund does not provide for the salaries of 700 doctors of medicine, four nurses and 280 health workers. No funds are provided for salaries to replace those doctors who go to specialization and subspecies. It's a 1.8 billion dinar figure, and that's all based on contracts signed by the Health Ministry. Today, the fact is that health institutions instead of paying for medicines and paying for medical equipment, pay 13,600 employees of doctors more with which contracts they made by the RZZO. From what I've said, it can only lead to one conclusion, and that's very simple. So, late payment and debt settlement will continue and will grow from month to month, because by law that we have turned 13 billion debt into public debt, I guess it's only the first of similar to that. It's obvious there's going to be a big new debt here. The debt, as it is possible to repay it, if it does not turn into a public debt again, on the back of Serbian citizens. Madam Minister, I must warn, in the past package of laws we passed, there was also a bill on payment deadlines. This law is quite fine from all perspectives primarily from businessmen, but I must warn you that paying for this public debt is completely different. So I'm wondering if it's possible that we health care institutions, that chain to repay that debt, so law enforcement won't apply to health care, or it's something else in the middle. Please simply check how contrary these two laws are. I have to comment on another fact which is obviously a problem and which is why healthcare is in this state. The fund is a health bank, it's the only real source of funding for health care, and it's natural that when it's in this condition that the entire pyramid that's relying on it has come into this state, it's almost collapsed. According to the tax administration, employers, entrepreneurs currently owe more than 139 billion for health contributions. About 55,0000 employers do not pay contributions to their health insurance employees, do not pay at all or in that payment terribly late. That 139 billion is a large amount of money that is missing and clearly needed for the health system to work. The Republic Fund planned that in 2012 health institutions and treatment will work, with around 206 billion dinars available for 6.9 million inhabitants. Of which, 143.6 was supposed to be income from contributions. If out of that 143 billion, 139 billion were not paid, then you can imagine how the Fund should function. More niggers, out of the Fund's total debt on the basis of contributions, 30 billion dinars won't be able to be paid at all, they'll know they won't be able to charge, because many companies have gone bankrupt, they've been wiped out of business registers, they've been liquidated, and that's still a problem because these funds should belong to the Fund. In Serbia, a health contribution is collected at a rate of 13.6% per receipt, but even if all 1.7 million employees and all 1.6 million pensioners paid contributions, and I say that it does not pay more than 55,000, it means that if these contributions were regularly paid, it would not be enough to treat all 6.7 million residents treated by the Fund, because along with those who pay health insurance, they also treat members of their families. In addition, 1.25 million people without income for whom the government is being treated are being treated, and the state stands out five euros each. I wish the Minister of Health was here to comment on this, too. And now instead of punishing employers, we have passed a few laws here where it is very easy to determine who pays the contributions, and who doesn't pay, but instead of the state now sanctioning those employers who don't pay contributions to their employees, the state appears as well as the one who owes itself. Since 2010, the government has been legally required to provide for unemployed, refugees and displaced persons, which is around 1.25 million people to pay RFZO 52 billion dinar, and has paid 1.6 billion in the 2013 budget, and has not provided for the funds to settle its debt. I don't know if I've been convincing enough how vital this is to the citizens of Serbia, I think I am because these are numbers, and when the numbers speak, the gods are silent, so the Greeks say. What I'd like to say is that as a state and you as a government, you have to be much more serious when laws are passed. First, the laws clash with each other, here around the bill and around the bill deadlines, and these are directly two opposing laws, and then they are asked Serbian citizens to take responsibility for everything that the government is unable to implement or planned badly. I think even something that, let's say unusually, that at the end of 2012, we're talking about amendments and additions to the 2012 law instead of going with the 2013 story, I don't think this is going to fix it either, and that, like the last time we talked about it, you have to enter a deeper law called health reform. Obviously, the system is prone to fall, not prone to fall, but almost Serbia's citizens have the right to be treated, to be warm in the hospital, to have medicines they can get and to eat for the time they spend in the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8344	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8345	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, MPs, I will only remain on one draft of the law in my discussion. This is the proposal for a law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank to lend a public firm to Serbia's Elektroprivreda for a project to improve exploitation technology in the Kolubar mining base in order to increase efficiency and thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts. I want to point out a few things on behalf of my parliamentary group when it comes to this law. First of all, our principled attitude, the view of the SPS, that when it comes to borrowings, we always look at it in two ways, from two angles. First, why are we in charge? If it's for investment investments, we support it. If it's for consumption, we're against it. It's obviously an investment investment here, and that's why we support it. The second reason, is that, or another way we have, approach, in considering this question, is that, can the one who uses the funds return the loan? In other words, does the state, when it guarantees one loan, itself have a guarantee that whoever uses it will be able to repay it? Since it's a powerful giant, economical, energy-y, I'm sure it'll work. The second thing I'm trying to say is, I want to support this approach. At the beginning of the exhibition, the minister said he was still dating from Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's exposé, when the government programme was presented, the need, the great urgent need for Serbia to achieve economic activity, to invest in infrastructure, energy, agriculture, economy as a whole. Because only she can make a new value, she can hire, she can make money, and then it'll be easier to make a budget. We support it and welcome it, especially we are witnessing in this area that this investment cycle has already started. We are witnessing the revitalization of Baja's garden, Gerdapa, here's Kostolic, here's now at the Kolubara mining base. We believe that it will be very soon on the agenda and attesting an agreement with the Government of Italy on investment in Serbia's potential. It will be one big momentum for Serbia's economy. Ms. Minister said in her explanation, I may repeat something, that improving the technology of the exploitation of the Kolubara mining base in order to increase the efficiency of the plant and reduce environmental impacts, that the project has technological and ecological and social significance. Technologically, as there would be an increase, of course, through carbon homogeneisation, there was an increase in energy efficiency and ecologically, as environmental impacts would be reduced. Just, I want to say a few words about this second, I want to present to the Serbian public the area that includes the so-called five municipalities, Lazarevic, Obrenovac, Ub, Lajkovac, partially and Ljig, which is recognizable in Serbia because there is a powerful energy giant who produces electricity more than half the needs of Serbia. I want to represent that end in another way, as an end which, as a consequence, has a devasted area entirely. What do I want to say? You know, the Lazarec municipality area, partly Ub and Lajkovac, has significant energy potentials based on which huge carbon-exploitation surfaces have been developed. In addition to that, a powerful thermal energy system, TE "Nikola Tesla" A and B, and "The Great Blacks". So it's a powerful economic economic giant known for producing more than 50% of Serbia's electricity needs. It's about people who have sacrificed their jobs at a temperature of plus 50 and minus 30, so that Serbia has a stable energy situation, to have enough power, all the recognitions about it. At the same time, I must draw attention to the public of Serbia, that these very large energy giants have become a significant factor in environmental degradation. Large amounts of gas, ash, dust, and wastewater that pollute air, land and water are daily excreted, both underground and surface. By burning coal in TE "Obrenovac" and "The Great Blacks", huge amounts of ash are created that are partly released through the chimney, while the remaining amounts are delayed at the dumps. It's over 200 tons of various particles coming out of the chimney daily and over 17,000 tons of ash a day. So, if this is considered not to be properly treated, because they are huge, by several hundred acres, and unfortunately make them as multipliers, and not as in the modern world, cassettes, smaller, but cassettes, and when all of this is considered, in an unfavourable direction of wind, and there is always an unfavourable direction of wind in that area, the whole area is being filled with large amounts of ash that contain heavy metals. I presented these few data for reasons for the public to understand that this area, these five municipalities of Lazarec, Obrenovac, Ub, Lajkovac and Ljig, is also recognizable in the demoted environment. It's over 200,000 people living in the area. It's an area where air and land and water are at risk, there's no fourth. What was I going to say to this? It's all the settlements that are flooded with it, Grabovac, Dren, Skela, Great Blacks, Stepojevac, Leskovac, Hots and not to add any more. What's my message? My message, by supporting this bill, is that we support it for the reasons that the funds that are being received, invested in investments, in the investment cycle, we make some new value in the technologically improved electricity production process, because through the homogenisation of coal, the amount needed for the same amount of electricity produced and the ecological and social moment that Mrs. Minister was talking about is being reduced. I wanted to send two messages. Every project in this area, which comes before this assembly, where it runs such a single cycle, must have mandatory environmental protection, ecologicality. So I welcome this, that it has one approach, one that has concluded that contract and one that has given money, that the protection of the environment is one of the conditions for obtaining credit. Another message, for this devastated area, this is a good step, but it's not enough. The state has to face that big problem and take it to solve it. We're going to support the bill for all of these reasons, and I just wanted to represent once again that this area isn't just the production of electricity, but also the destruction of the environment, and it has to be addressed parallelly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8346	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8347	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in his opening statement, Madam Minister, you said very little about the laws that are on the agenda today, but that is why as MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear and that is nice of you to say, that you love what you are in the National Assembly today, where MPs from different cities of Serbia are sitting, and that some practice you had in the previous period, and you explained that in the current situation in which the state is, were often financial, economic laws on the agenda of this Parliament. You've had opportunities from the MPs to hear about the problems of the cities they come from. It's sad, Madam Minister, that MPs tell you nothing but problems. It simply indicates in what state our country is. From the moment this government was formed, we have a worse and worse situation in our country. The fact is that there is an increase in the reference interest rate, and thus credits. The fact is, too, that the increase in VAT also occurred by an additional increase in prices, not only 2%, so that citizens with their average salary can buy much less at the store today than they could at the beginning of this year. Also, by increasing the capital gains tax, we have sent a message to investors that this is a unstable investment country. Inflation is worth over 13%. We have an unstable course of the euro. Monthly, over 10,000 citizens of this country lose their jobs. For this reason, you are indeed in a position to hear from the messengers what a bad condition is in their municipalities. I believe you'd be far happier to hear from the MPs that in one of their municipalities, where the roads are paved, that a new factory has opened up and that citizens in these municipalities live better today. I do not wish to abuse, and now I am talking about Negotina and Eastern Serbia, where I come from, I believed that, as it was said yesterday that the Borski District is impervious, that Minister Mrkonjic, your colleague in the government, went yesterday because of such a problem and did not attend the session of parliament. But then I heard he was at a concert in Zajecar, the day before yesterday. He obviously didn't go there to help us, to have better and better ways to go. You also said, Madam Minister, that one of these draft laws is about a guarantee agreement, that it will improve energy. I'm going to have to quote you, you said that means improving the technological, environmental and social aspects. There's really nothing to add, because I think that by giving guarantees, you can really improve the energy sector. You have spoken to us and read part of the Prime Minister's exposé, which speaks of the country's economic development. But what you did not say, Madam Minister, in your opening statement, you said after your presentation before our member, LDP, Mrs Judith Popovic. That's when you said that you and the great Elan entered this assembly today, that you were talking to the MPs about the proposals of the laws that are on the agenda today, and that you were very sorry and uncomfortable, that you had the opportunity to hear from the MPs, that an hour was debated about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, instead of the laws, as if they were not attractive enough for the MPs. I must tell you that, one of the reasons is, the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the MPs. We, as MPs, receive all the laws, maltenes, by emergency procedure. Today on the agenda we have such laws. The laws, which you yourself said, should allow foreign investors to invest in this country, these are the ratifications of the agreement, are under emergency procedure in the National Assembly. The government's explanation for such an emergency procedure is that, unless by the end of this year, parliament does not ratify these agreements, then these agreements will not be able to be applied in 2013, but would have been applied since 2014. I see you agree with me. What is not said anywhere is that contracts, international contracts, are tied to these agreements, signed on February or April of this year. Then did it take the government of the Republic of Serbia, six months, to propose these laws to the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, or could we discuss these laws a few months ago? If something is important, and these international contracts are important for this country, then the government must show seriousness and deliver them to Parliament in time, not at the last minute, at five to twelve, and that we as MPs are considering them by emergency procedure. I hope you won't give us any important contracts in the future as a matter of urgency here. As for giving guarantees to the German Development Bank, for a 74m-euro loan, we believe it should be invested in energy, but what is missing here is the economic viability of such a guarantee, such a single loan. What are the deadlines under which the Kolubara Mining Basen will be able to settle the loan, or Serbia's Elektroprivreda? Can the electricity return that loan, or will that loan be returned to all citizens? You, Mrs Kalanovic, said that issuing a guarantee provided by the budget is a common thing. She is. But for every guarantee given by the Republic, we must have economic viability. I'm not against the problem of environmental protection, nor am I against investing in the energy sector, but in how many years are we going to pay for this investment? When we tell the citizens of this country – 74m euros, I don't think it means anything to them, because they don't have 10 euros in their pocket. If we say it's almost eight billion, it doesn't mean anything to them either, because they don't have 1,000 dinars. Now all I want to do is compare how big the funds are, even for this country's budget. So the amount of the guarantee, the amount of the loan, is equal to the budgets of almost all local self-government in Timoška krajina or transfer, which receive municipalities from the Republic of Serbia's budget in southern and eastern Serbia. It's such a big guarantee. This is equal to a minimum, meaning a minimum wage for 400,000 people, or those funds are equal to, as much as four single aids, as is now being paid to pensioners in Serbia. Those aren't even small funds. It is more than it is given for dental services in this country, on an annual basis, twice as much as it is spent on dialysis and that is one quarter of the resources needed to pay off medicines that citizens take on prescription. You'll agree with me, dear Minister, that these are no small funds at all, for which the state guarantees. I really expected from the expert director of the Kolubar Mining Base, to give us this bill, i.e. You as a government, he gives you, and you give us, in what way will a loan like this be paid off. That's what you, as I say, might be the easiest thing to understand, is the subsidy this government or the previous government would give to 25,000 new jobs. If this loan will provide 25,000 jobs, or provide us with salaries for 400,000 people, it will have such an economic effect, then I think the loan is worth it. You told us here in an explanation that you're not even sure what the interest rate is. I'm not saying that the interest rate is high, but it will be determined on the day of the loan. When I said it was equal to the value of a quarter of the funds, given annually for prescription drugs, then I would say little about the changes to the Health Insurance Fund's financial plan. It is perfectly acceptable for me to have the agenda today, and if the DRI said that the excess income from the previous year should be easily defined, it is entirely justified that these funds go to pay for the medicines, but that only once solves the problem that exists in the health care sector, because a complete reform of the health system is needed. You're not a health minister, and I don't know how much you know how the Health Insurance Fund works, but one of the big problems is next. If a health center has a hospital and a home of health, where local self-government has not taken over the founding rights of the homes of health, there is one really illogicality that increases costs in this country. The director of the health center can't, if his health care doctor gets sick, hires his doctor from the hospital. He can only hire a doctor from another town for such a thing. I think it's far higher costs than being hired by an existing doctor who works either in a health care home or in a hospital, than other doctors are coming. This is practically delayed by the patient’s care, for it is far faster to deploy one doctor to another workplace than to wait for a doctor from another city to come to you. I'm saying this because the Fund absolutely accepts the costs if a doctor outside of the health center is involved, and not accepts the costs if a doctor from the health center is engaged. I think that's where the law needs to be amended, which will cut these costs. Without a comprehensive reform of the health system, we cannot solve health problems. I know you want to settle some of your debts with surplus income from previous years, and I think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8348	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8349	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Minister Kalanovic, as I come from Lazarec, and since I worked at the Kolubara Mining Baseline, part of the Kolubara company – coal processing in Vreoc, I have an obligation before my fellow citizens and voters to refer briefly to this bill, but I will not talk about it in a formal sense, but I will look back on its essential importance for the Kolubar area and the Republic of Serbia in general. We all know what our country is meant by the Kolubara Mining Base. The Kolubara mining base provides coal with oil-based thermal power plants that produce half of the electricity in Serbia. It's a huge and complex process system, which can't stop at any time, which means its maintenance requires large funds. We are all aware of the needs of our country to produce every kilowatt of electricity in our country and from our resources. In addition to the extraordinary efforts of all employees at the Kolubara Mining Baseline, which have for many years been recording the record digging of lignite, the need for modernization in the exploitation of this resource is a dry need. It is this law that the Republic of Serbia gives its guarantee that the funds will be provided. It is about granting a loan guarantee to Serbia's Elektroprivreda and the Kolubara Mining Basen, related to the project to improve coal exploitation and environmental protection. Germany's bank, which guarantees itself with today's law, has provided 74m euros in funding, out of which it has loaned 65m, and nine million has been granted grants. The project improves lignite exploitation technology at the Kolubara Mining Baseline in order to increase the efficiency of the work of thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts has a technological, ecological and social character in order to provide safe and uniform delivery of coal and rational management of natural resources, as well as to reduce atmospheric pollution of thermal power plants used by coal from the Kolubara Mining Base. Realisation of this project would ensure the use of lignite of uniform quality, which is excavated at the Kolubara Mining Baseline, which would allow for an increase in the efficiency of the work of the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant Obrenovac and the Morava Termopower Plant in Svilajnc. It would improve the exploitation of coal. There would be an increase in the energy efficiency of the thermal power plants used by this coal and the adverse environmental impacts would be reduced. Using carbon-efficient carbon monoxide emissions in combustion would reduce by 400,000 tonnes per year, leading to the savings of the natural lignite resource of one million tonnes per year, thereby reducing the cost of producing kilowatt hours of electricity and having greater reliability of the work of the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower plant. The investment is projected to achieve total savings in an annual exploitation of around 26m euros. These indicators assured Germany's Frankfurt Development Bank in May that it is a project of wider ecological but social importance and that Serbia's Elektroprivreda can also compete for non-commercial lending. Green credit lines. The Arum Advisory House, according to study visits carried out, in co-operation with employees at the Kolubara Mining Baseline and the Elektroprivreda Srbija Directorate, produced the necessary documentation for the process of considering loan approval and the Action Plan for environmental protection and social issues. The environmental significance of this project cannot be measured by money, especially for the citizens of the Lazarjeva and the Obstetric region. Since I worked near the Grand Blacks Termo power plant, I know exactly what kind of air my fellow citizens breathe in. Environmental protection is an obligation of the entire society to the environments where coal is exploited and processed into a final product, lignite and electricity. If these citizens lose their most fertile land for the benefit of the entire community, centuries-old hearths, entire villages, even the cemetery of their ancestors, then we must provide them with at least cleaner air, and there is no dispute that this law on granting a loan guarantee to Serbia is doing just that. For all these reasons, the PUPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8350	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8351	Dear President, Ms. Minister, I will talk about granting consent to the decision on amendments and additions to the 2012 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which provides that the surplus funds that have been made to the sub-accounts of the indirect and direct users of the Health Insurance Fund will be used to meet the commitments made during the previous years for the medicinal products and medical materials delivered. The other day when we discussed the deadlines for the reconciliation of the commitments made by the state, we heard from the finance minister that the debts by the state, relating to health institutions, hospitals and the republican fund, amount to over 30 billion dinars, so that these unfulfilled three billion dinars, as far as they were found to be surpluses on the sub-accounts of the users of the Health Insurance Fund, would probably not have a significant impact on the reduction of these debts, so that the state would have to find other mechanisms to settle these debts, which was passed by law, in part and settled. That's when I was talking, and now I'm going to repeat a few of the situations concerning one-off theft, the obvious thefts that have been going on and that are probably happening in other areas of the Health Insurance Fund. One of the problems that public health has is that not all health services have been adequately evaluated, so let's say that some operations, relatively complicated, are valued with very low amounts of resources, and that some other things are exaggerated. On this basis, doctors who need to perform several operations receive very little money and health care institutions earn little funds. This leads to major dubiosis and delays in the delivery of materials, delays in payments to suppliers, etc., all being maintained on a completely poor health policy in Serbia. One of the major irregularities that occurred in the previous years in the Health Fund concerns the acquisition of dialysis material during 2010 and 2011. In February 2010, in order to protect the privileged supplier, the company that is likely to have some personal dealings with people running the Health Fund changed the conditions and rules on the purchase of dialysis materials. In the rulebook, she said that only those companies that sterilize dialysis devices can participate in the purchase of dialysis apparatus and dialysis materials. In this area, there is only one producer that sterilises dialysis apparatus, which clearly indicates that the responsible person from the Fund, or several directly affected the idea that, through the conditions of the competition, a draft of who will be selected supplier in the contest for the purchase of dialysis apparatus and materials. On this basis, according to a very detailed analysis by people dealing with this problem, only in 10 months last year the state, or the Republic Health Insurance Fund, is damaged by over 150 million dinars. I'm sure in other areas of supply there are such failures. One of these is that there are several institutions in state health institutions that have apparatus for hyperbaric chambers. There is a hyperbaric chamber in Banjaca, two at the Institute of Physiology, at the Zemun Health Centre, from both recently and on VMA, but these services provided by state health institutions are not fully covered by the fund. By contrast, one private person has four institutions for hyperbaric medicine, across Serbia, with 12 lying places in hyperbaric chambers, whose services the Health Insurance Fund fully covers, and these services pay about eight and a half thousand dinars per treatment. This through a clear calculation that in one hour through his hyperbaric chambers 50 people, a day about 500, if it is considered that 10 hours is a working time, on an annual level it is over 100,000 patients, multiplied by 80 euros, how much one treatment costs, it is easy to calculate that the sums are multimillion dollars. I'm sure more than six, seven, and even eight million euros. The Gamzigrad Banja facility has one such hyperbaric chamber but has managed to register 10 hospital beds for the provision of hyperbaric chamber services in the institution. She managed to contract with the Republic Health Fund only three treatments a day. Imagine how much money is poured out in private hands in this way, I have nothing against private people to provide such services, but it is completely abnormal that state institutions, financed by the state from their budget and by the Health Fund, have purchased appliances from state-owned taxpayers' couples, are not financed by that same health fund, but are financed by the 100% amount of those private institutions that provide only certain services that are profitable. I also have evidence for this matter, so I'm going to hand it over to you and ask you to give it to Mr. Vice President of the Government who deals with corruption and crime. I'm sure he'll find a lot of work here. If this is expelled, there will probably be more money in the Health Insurance Fund, and therefore less debt to suppliers, better health insurance and better health care workers, and of course better patient health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8352	Thank you, Mr. Lapchevich. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8353	Mr. Chairman, I'm glad you're here because we're working on the agenda, not the Rules of Procedure. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I am very sorry that you are here. You are from Triestenik, I am from Kruševec and only a year ago I praised you in this hall, I have no reason to blame you for anything, if you drive that highway from Pojat to Trstenik and Vranjska Banja, I will support you as much as my abilities, knowledge and skills allow. This is where I expected the government to send someone else as a promoter. I'll also tell you who. I expected the promoter to be someone who would explain this particular responsibility, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. You know why? There was no press conference and there was no televised visit by Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, not to say that Serbia's scandalous new debt is for this much or so euros. I'll give you some advice. On Saturday, from 10.00 hours on Radio Belgrade, a wonderful show is being broadcast. It's called "Mozaik of Time." There you can hear what each of us has been saying in our past. This show serves to fight against chicken memory, but it also serves to prevent us from forgetting that there are two political programs, one when you are in opposition, and the other when you are in power. The example works, as Serbia only through the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia" Belgrade, is in charge of 74m euros, I will only tell you what was once said. It says – Serbia is already in debt 80%, and this was said in October 2012 from Zorana Mihajlovic's mouth, her words. Serbia is already in charge of close to 80% of GDP and therefore must no longer be in debt unless it wants a scenario that Greece and other countries have. Then he says, the moment the SNS takes power in this country, there will be no borrowing until a law on public procurement is passed. This is an empo borrowing without this famous, famous law on public procurement, which appears to be written in old technology like this platform for Kosovo, so none of the ordinary mortals can see it. Then it tells you – Serbia has the highest energy and energy prices, primarily oil and its derivatives, but we will have to reassess these high electricity prices. Then he says – we have prepared a new White Paper, with a program until the changes in which we will explain to the citizens of Serbia that they pay the most expensive fuel, the most expensive electricity, and that they get the worst possible quality. That's what you say when you're in opposition, and when it comes to power, it's said, two days ago, the electricity will add up 25%. The government of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of Serbia, sends you a card on January 1st and will account for an electricity bill of 25%. How much is 74 million euros? I have a lot of family in the country. My brother lives in the village of Ducalovici. Its 74m euros is the same as 30m euros. He never saw that money, but he did it in these winter days, after he broke his leg, so he sits at home, likes to convert it into liters of milk, pieces of eggs, rocks of heifers, tractors. It says – 74m euros at today's purchase price is 185m gallons of milk, as much as we are in debt today. Who drinks so much milk? I knew that Serbia would grow honey and milk when you came to power, but milk seems to be sour, and honey is nowhere to be picked up by bumblebees. It says – 74,000 heifers cost this loan, 12.5 million pieces of eggs, 7,400 tractors are given for credit for which we really shouldn't give a dinar, because the justification for the loan is that the amount of oil used will be reduced. That doesn't stand. In the last 10 years, the OB complex has significantly increased the reliability of the system and the number of working hours, and the efficiency of the thermal plant and this loan will not help any further improvement. It goes on to say -- Serbia can provide energy security through biomass, through hydroenergy, through alternative energy sources. With the government's biggest responsibility for DS, several city heats in Serbia have received good credits to move on to alternatives to heating systems. Why am I telling you this? I'm telling you that if you really want Serbia to enter Europe, I don't just know whether it's with kim or without kim, after the border crossings, I'm not sure, since I haven't seen the platform. It appears to be shared by the ruling party's MPs. Looks like it doesn't matter what the opposition thinks about Kim. I guess the ones who made the problem, they should solve it now. It may be the smartest thing for you, but it's not for Serbia, believe me. This borrowing leads to major problems in breach of the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Serbia, but also leads to even more difficult compliance with some European standards, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. When you want to go to Europe, you must also respect some European standards. MPs of the ruling majority should know that Serbia currently emits around 60m tonnes of CO2 alone from coal electricity production. If such a loan is accepted, it is expected to increase that imbalance. Of course, if you want to go to Europe, then you have to adjust the emissions of carbon dioxide to European standards. If you don't do it right, then there's nothing from Europe. If you take this kind of credit for what you wrote, it means you've given up European integration. Then let's see who authorized you to do this. You're declaring yourself a European government. These loans are declared to be an anti-European government. I think this government's key problem is next. Whenever you sign these loans, when you go to America, England, west, what Mr. Vukic promises in English, it cannot be translated into Russian. So, just think about whether this is really necessary, recalculate this to liters of milk, rock heifer. You have this expert from the Peasant Party. Count it into the number of tractors and then explain whether it can, can't, whether it's good for the future of this country or not. Ask the orbit of the model, he'll make it very clear to you, and then remember what you said at the conferences in front of the government building, that you said that no loan debt would be without the Public Procurement Act. Then fill the pen with some ink that you can see, not use this, stealth technology written, so only you see what it says in the platform for Kosovo and the Public Procurement Act, and Serbia sinks into a new credit line, with all the captains of the sinking ship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8354	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8355	Your Honor, it's always a pleasure to listen to you, as soon as I understand that language better, but I have to say something that is related to the total representation of the laws passed at the government meetings in the National Assembly. In addition to confirming this guarantee agreement, four other laws are on the agenda. I personally believe that with sufficient arguments and competence, I have defended the entire package. As far as duties and translation into liters of milk and respect for the Law on Public Procurement, as someone who has been involved in projects at all stages for a long time, it is clear that the implementation of a project needs first to secure the budget. We're doing it these days for the famous Moravia Corridor. Thank you for your compliments. I truly advocate that this project finally be realized. I also advocate the implementation of a project related to raising efficiency and establishing a balance in CO2 emissions and exploiting tons of lignite. If we look closely, this project also has an ecological component and there is no reason to worry whether European standards presented through the "Europe 2020" document will be respected through this project. In the end, the German Development Bank, as you know, requires in the approval of each loan, and Serbia delivers and visas a study that clearly describes the effects of the project, and this is the answer to the question whether or not this project has an excuse. As for comparisons with liters of milk, if you were to compare today to our sea farmers how much the Moravia Corridor costs with liters of milk or with pieces of eggs, everyone would say – is it possible that so many of our cows and so many liters of milk are spent on one such project? But we're making it so that tomorrow a lot of heifers, a lot of gallons of milk and sweet and sour will be taken right out of our Navy. It is also this project that we associate with energy that we cannot compare with liters of milk from the forest, but rather with the things we discussed at the beginning, with getting lignite of equal quality, with raising energy efficiency, with neat security and secure coal supply, with an ecological component that will provide Europe 2020 standards tomorrow. I understand the criticisms that come into account – why Serbia has not brought a national development plan over the past seven years, which will be in line with "Europe 2020", but let's not put up with criticism now as to why Kolubara, who spends 74 million on these three components in the next period, is in charge of a million and 700,000 liters of milk, which should be provided by the citizens of Šumadia. That's not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8356	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8357	Mrs. Kalanovic, I understand that you and I as Morats understand each other well. I had no objection to the Moravia Corridor. On the contrary, I repeat again, I will vote and you will have the support of all my friends and friends and associates and people from the DS and people in the region, that's absolutely fine. We're never going to convert it into gallons of milk or heifers or tractors, because all these corridors are going to go to some markets and it's going to feel like an inflow in our local budgets. This will make our end progress and I am very grateful to you, and I hope that we will continue to cooperate on this project, without any problems. I only have a problem with the purpose of these duties that I've talked about in this way, and that doesn't bring such benefits as the Moravian corridor. On the contrary, there are also big problems for the Republic of Serbia's budget, and for some ecosystems, and for some of our standards that we need to meet, in order to join the EU. I'd like to ask you to separate these two things and separate them. You have full support for everything you're doing around the sea corridor, we'll never recalculate it one way or another. I am convinced that, regardless of all the problems we see at the government's night sessions, you will overcome these problems, that this Moravian corridor will be completed, at least to begin during the term of office of this government, but we cannot agree on this. What some of them used to criticise strongly when they were in opposition, and now they're doing twice as much capacity as we are, we have to keep reminding them. We're going to stick our finger in that angry sea pepper and right in the eye to shut up and say, did you talk this out when you were an opposition, and what are you doing now when you're in power? Gentlemen, you have two morals: one which you proclaim, but you do not adhere to it; and the one who proclaims it, you shall be silent about it when the time of power comes. It can't be like that. (President: Time, Mr. Milivoevich. ) I thank you, Mr Stefanovic, for finishing the last sentence. So these are two separate things, because these are two separate things – the moravia corridor and the borrowing for Kolubara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8358	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's an old people's saying - that it's my idea to rest my head a little. That's my comment on the exposure of some colleagues. (President: Don't, Mr. Risticevic, that's an offensive term. Please continue exposure on the agenda. I didn’t mention anyone, I only mentioned a people’s saying and you don’t have to beg me. I'm going to vote for these guarantees anyway. I'd say right away that the Minister of Energy is not here, because he's in Vienna and he's visiting the energy community, as far as I know. Just enough to say it in the introduction. Of course, I will vote for this guarantee for the reason it applies to energy. Energy is one of our development opportunities. Of that 74 million, as far as I know, nine million is a grant, and that's a grant. It would be a sin not to vote for it, especially when it comes to an important branch that is Serbia's perspective. This is where we voted for various guarantees. I haven't been able to vote for the bridge guarantee. The bridge, which leads from one local community in Belgrade to another local community, has been guaranteed here, a guarantee that is not like this productive one, and that bridge has served to translate thirsty across water. He didn't serve anything else. In the end, that bridge will come out 600m euros. We are better off forgetting the guarantee we gave 150m euros, that we no longer give any guarantees of a similar nature. We better forget that bridge and make another cheaper one, near a traffic station, for about 20-30m euros, than build a traffic station because of a guarantee issued in the previous assembly. Fortunately, I haven't been able to vote for that kind of guarantee. How much milk, bread, and so on, with precise precision, I can't tell. I'll certainly support the energy, but I can't support any guarantees that apply to the bridge in the future. How is it that the capital, to whom we have given these guarantees, is owed 802m euros, through the law of legal duty, and someone has to answer, and we listen to his followers here teach us moral lessons? How is this city in charge of 802 million euros, and whoever runs the city is a billionaire, and it's a multibillionaire? In dinars, it's over 100 billion dinars from 2005 to today, which have earned the private firm president of one party, who once ruled this country and ruined everything she could have ruined. To translate into eggs, to understand me, someone who has over 100 billion, for the period from 2005 to today, has earned 10 billion eggs. So much for eggs and eggs. Also, when I translate 100 billion into bread and milk, I get three billion gallons of milk, or three billion centuries of bread. You can feed 30 million families a year with that. I'll ask that uncle, who's the president of one important party - uncle, is this all your bread? As for the next items of the agenda, I will certainly support the agreement with Belarus, for the reason that, apart from the EU, and here there are great definitions for joining the community, the Euro-Asian Union, which is currently made up of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, and in the future, some other countries should join. It is a great opportunity for both the Balkans and Serbia, above all, because I believe it will open up a chance for our economy, which will also include a dose of political stability, global political stability, which will be created in these two blocks and what we will be able to choose, and not only choose, but also to co-operate with both communities. It's a chance for our economy, it's a chance for our agriculture, it's a chance for our energy, and it should definitely be used both in the east and west, as the President of the Republic says - we're a two-door house. It's his fault. It's not ours. This second agreement should allow our honest and upright people to finally earn something in their country. How is it that our people are very valuable, appreciated everywhere in the West and abroad, wherever they work is valued as labour, valued as a professional workforce, only in our country cannot achieve what they can accomplish in the white world? It's a matter of political regulation and creating ambience in their own country, that what they do in other economies and in other countries can also be done in their own country. We need to give our people a chance. These before us have created a state with no chance of development, no chance for the present and future generations. We have to stop it and we have to get into some kind of fame, that we have regained the honor and dignity of this country, to allow our people to finally raise their heads, raise their heads and the flag of their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8360	Replica, Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8361	As a graduate farmer of agriculture, for livestock farming, I understand many things and many forms of behavior, even in the price of eggs, the price of milk, the price of pigfish, and I am sorry that they do not understand and do not know those who are presidents of the Peasant Party. To ask them how much an egg costs at the market, they have no idea, to ask them how much a liter of milk they buy, they have no idea, they have no idea, but to ask them how much it costs to raise 100,000 euros with falsified documentation, there are experts. The potato seal, they don't say how much the potatoes cost, but they know the potato stamp to make, so you have no idea. Believe me, they're experts. I'm surprised some expert organizations didn't take them to consider their virtues and proclivities. You know, when we talk about how much the bridge cost on Ada, it would be good if you made a deal with each other -- whether that bridge cost 250,000, 300,000, 400,000, 500,000, 600,000, and then when you made a deal with each other, at least be unique. Every time you throw out another piece of information. Every time you have some new information, some new number, some new number that should fascinate Serbian citizens. Before you remove the speck in someone else's eye, cut the logs both in your head and in your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8362	Mr. Stefanovic, you have no basis. Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Stefanovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8363	Mr. President, I know I don't have the right to a replica, but it's a broken member of 106, and I think that's clear to you. Although with all the excitement and joy we listen to the representatives of your coalition address the Serbian public in this way because it brings us only benefits, I do believe that you as president must react in these situations when it comes out of the agenda so drastically. This wasn't just about getting out of the agenda, it was about being drastic. There were some things that concern some other forums, if you want other bodies, maybe not the Assembly at the moment, so I really don't see if we're talking about borrowing, an agreement that's very specific is actually the point that we want to point out. I am sure that you support me here and I believe that you have even had the elements to give the notice to the MP in question at one point by using an expression that is extremely offensive. You may not have heard it, but you have it in your stenographic notes. I don't want to repeat it because it's really below every level. Therefore, before such expressions are used, those pointing to others for legal affairs, for jobs for which there are all documents to turn primarily towards their rabbit, their axes and others and to pay taxes to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8364	As for the insult, you know that in this House I am highly opposed to it and I ask all the MPs in all the sittings that the language and tone that we speak to each other and who we speak in this Parliament are such that we maintain Parliament's dignity first and foremost. The debate that lasted in today’s day was somewhat colored through the presentation of some MPs in a way that could be interpreted one way or another. When I allowed Mr. Milivojevic to speak in his debate in the way he felt he should interpret the subject, which I believe is his right, I had to give it to Mr. Risticevic, and he used it in the way he felt he should talk about the subject he was talking about, if it was an offensive word I hadn't heard, in the political frameworks allowed metaphors. If someone else spoke that way, I wouldn't interpret it. In principle, he avoided directly mentioning or insulting anyone that the Rules of Procedure allowed. I prayed and prayed to all MPs to be very sensitive to the fact that we would not have the need in this National Assembly to talk long enough about the violations of the Rules of Procedure or to talk through replicas, but to talk about a subject that is on the agenda. The topic on the agenda provides the broadness and opportunity to talk widely about all the social phenomena that exist in our country, and I allow that debate. Once again, I ask all the MPs of the people to respect the possibility that we should be tolerated and that we should be quite aware that the words we use can be offensive to other Members of the people. Here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know how far the Rules of Procedure will be broken at my expense. Look closely at all the stenograms, I didn't mention any of the names of any of the parties. It's just that I've been commenting on just the speeches of my previous colleagues, and I'm not guilty if someone recognized myself. I'm being rude here. I've already been nominated several times for making potato stamps. The only seal I have is the seal of the People's Peasant Party. If they think that seal should be made of potatoes, I admit that mistake. Unlike them, I'm not funded by tycoons, I'm not funded by anyone, so if I did it then I certainly made it out of nothing, but I can't remember. I'm guilty because I'm from some poor party and they think that I made a stamp of potatoes and it's a sin they've been accusing me of for days. I made myself clear. This country is in charge of about 50 billion. The public debt we found and the hole with which it was to close the repayment of the public debt, which has reached, is over 20 billion euros. The total debt of the population's economy and the public debt of the state was close to 50 billion. That is what we need to talk about, and that should be imagined by all those who talk about the price of milk. Of course I know what the price of milk is. Of course I know what the price of bread is. Of course I know what the price of eggs is. I know how much Krushevac heat owes. It owes 7.3m euros or if you translate it into eggs, they like to be translated into eggs, it's 73 million pieces of eggs or 21 million centuries of bread, or 21 million liters of milk. (President: Time. ) The price of a liter of milk depends on whether the farm is small or large. The ransom price, unfortunately, varies with them. The cow wasn't a cow. A liter of milk wasn't a liter of milk. I admit I don't fully know all the prices. Mr. Risticevic, it's been two minutes. I end up in one sentence. I don't know since it's the price of milk, let's agree to that, but he doesn't know how much money his boss has. Let me ask him in the end, I don't know, because he's one beef? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8366	Mr. Babice, on what grounds did you answer? (National Ambassador Zoran Babic, from the post: As an authorised representative. You have time as an authorised representative of the group, but Mr. Stefanovic is before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8367	I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, with all due respect, and yesterday we talked about, the passion of fighting political and debate, I don't know if you've missed hearing a few very clear insulting expressions that are sent to a very clear gesture and a view that speaks more than a thousand words in the DS direction, and then it's said that our boss has money, and then there's a book that I'm not going to mention that's about the eggs, and it's sewn together with a man who's doing something illegal under the grain. There are a dozen other examples that a colleague has in one skillful way through a constant insinuation in one really offensive way, which does not last for more than a few seconds during exposure, I'm sure you're registering it as well as any MP in this room. So, please, not because I have anything personal against the MPs, or this is directed towards the SNS, but I'm just trying to protect the integrity as far as I can as an MP so these things don't happen, because believe me, we might have an MP who would use very plain terms that are inappropriate, but where will that take us? I think we're out of those times. I do appeal to you. You must have registered those expressions in this presentation. Give me a warning. On behalf of the DS, I believe that the condition is fulfilled more than once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8368	As for this, I ask Mr. Rističević to give any terms... We should develop in Parliament a kind of understanding that if MPs of the other parliamentary group say that they find your way of speaking to them offensive, I think that you should take it to the knowledge and that you do not discuss it in the future, because they may find it offensive. I'd like it if in the debate they didn't translate any more categories, if it could go one completely different normal way. Since we're done and there are no registered speakers on the lists, I'm asking if the authorised representatives want a word. Mr. Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, every law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia referred to in the assembly procedure is a common position of the entire government, and that is a good step and a good move in relation to previous experiences, to the previous government, when every ministry was a feed for itself, when no one was allowed to interfere. In this is the answer to the asked question – which is why Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, energy minister, did not come to explain this law, but was done by Mrs Verica Kalanovic. Behind each proposed law stands the entire government and can come any minister or prime minister. On the other hand, I am aware that each of the MPs can speak in their own style, in their own spirit, as they think and what they think, that there is a constitutional category of immunity for the spoken word or for the cast vote. It's okay. When there's fear in the debate, I don't think that's right. Scaring citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the highest legislative home, from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is dangerous. Here we have heard from one of the previous speakers a message to the citizens of Serbia – prepare to collect electricity, prepare for disaster in Serbia, there will be an increase in prices, I don't know what. That's just not true. That the computer or laptop serves for something other than playing games, it can be seen that Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, the most responsible in the field of energy, who is now fighting and representing the views of the Republic of Serbia in Vienna, in the energy community, has announced that there will be no electricity and gas collection and that social tickets for endangered citizens and a new tariff system will be made. It doesn't matter from the power collection. But what one of the previous speakers, and not even the entire political party he belongs to, cannot forget that they also said in the election campaign that Serbia would be sanctioned if Tomislav Nikolic wins. Tomislav Nikolic won, became president of the Republic of Serbia, became president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is Serbia under sanctions? Of course not. It is an internationally recognised and respected country wherever it appears or whoever comes to Serbia. Was it said when the governor's election... (President: Please, I apologize for interrupting, to link the debate to the topic. Of course. Is the course in Serbia ever more stable? What is the value of the dinar compared to the euro? I'll respect what you've told me. You can't learn to stop threatening, because no one believes in your threats anymore in Serbia. It's a good thing you learned to multiply, unlike some previous period when you just added, but I'm just going to ask you one thing - what is the stock fund in Serbia? That milk and that liter of milk, that one egg, it must be produced. What's the stock fund after 12 years of your perilous authority? Finally, some dissonant things were said about the price of the bridge on Ada. Yes, the SNS comes out with new prices, with higher prices, because as some invoices come out for some access traffic, for some new works, of course that price increases. We have lost the answer to the question – why and why and who is responsible for the change from an extra building zone to the first building zone? Who is responsible for losing eightm euros in revenue to Belgrade's citizens. (President: Please return to the topic. All right. Just one more sentence. The SNS will support this law in the voting day because it is a new borrowing, but unlike the previous period, this new borrowing has an end-user and has an improvement in all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8370	The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8371	Articles 106 and 107. It doesn't seem common to me that an authorised SNS representative uses his exposure as a six-minute replica. I think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially when that replica is completely off the table, except for the excuse for Minister Mihajlovic, who is in the energy community. That's okay, but it's not right that we're discussing here right now without any of the ministers in the O.R. That's, like, not right. Why didn't you notice that? That is not respecting the president of the assembly and all MPs. That's where we'll agree, so whoever's in power. To bring out these things, many false things, these are not insinuations now, this was now a salva of propaganda sentences that have no basis in fact. Now we could answer like this in order, all that's said, and then Mr. Babic would answer to me. That way we won't end up anywhere. President, you should react in these situations, because you will create a parliamentary avalanche of mutual accusations. We were all in power or in opposition, all of us were part of this political system in one way or another. If they're going to take things out, who's in charge, who's paying taxes, who's not, who's been in jail, who's not, we're going in one very bad direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8372	I agree. I also agree with what you said about the minister. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8373	Mr. Chairman, you just injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly where it is said that the MP has the right to reply, if his exposure is misread or part of his presentation is indicated. Mr. Babic has repeatedly cited parts of my presentation and therefore I demand the right to replication. (President: Continue your statement to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. ) I would have spoken to the Rules of Procedure, but I think I had the right to reply, because in the replica I wanted to show on the laptop that EPS has announced more expensive electricity since 2013. Maybe you don't know this EPS director from your political party. He's called Life Jovanovic, but look what the laptop says, I don't say. I ask the camera to record it – "EPS announced more expensive electricity in 2013". I don't scare the citizens, they're scared by the CEO of the EPS. (President: Just to inform you, the EPS director is called Aleksandar Obradovic. ) Here I see what one of the directors of the EPS says, said, announced the collection of electricity. That's what the news in your party paper says, it's not said in independent media since 10 December 2012. I'm just reading how it's written. I wish some of them knew how to play laptop games, not play Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-18-0.u8374	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) (Zoran Babic, from the place: Replica. I don't think you have the right to a replica, Mr. Granny. I'm closing the hearing because there are no more reports. We'll continue our work Thursday at 10.00 hours. I'll let you know why Thursday. I have reached an agreement with the parliamentary group, as Mr. Vukic cannot be present today for health reasons. I didn't want a set of laws talking about the Department of Defense to be conducted without his presence. I think MPs must have the right answer. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, in today's session, you have the right to request a notice or an explanation based on this member of the Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Neven the Florist. Here you go.
