ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find that 126 MPs attend the sitting, and I remind you that Article 88 is paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly shall exist when the agenda is established, if most of the total number of MPs is present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Given that today, on the basis of Article 287 of today's session, MPs have the right to inform. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? National MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4758	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, this question, that is, I will ask you this request for an explanation because you, in the description of your affairs, have the obligation to represent parliament in the country before the public opinion here and abroad in front of others. It is a question that MP Sinisa Kovacevic asked the Serbian government the day before yesterday and it is about a halabuca that was raised in public on the issue yesterday. I remind you that MP Sinisa Kovacevic asked two questions, and in fact he repeated them, because when he set them up the previous time about a month ago, he did not get the government's answer. One issue concerned dogged films from Serbia's budget that had never entered distribution, and another issue concerned the monopoly position of some marketing firms in Belgrade and their cross-border right to purchase or rent a minute at RTS. These issues are common, but at this point they may be even more important because they wanted to give, to ask the ministers for an explanation of possible and very likely corrupt actions contained in both cases. We will wait for a peaceful answer to this repeated question or rather to repeat two questions, and we will respond to that answer. But what happened yesterday has nothing to do with those questions. We received an unhemental attack on MP Kovacevic from the ranks of RTS, of course not sticking to the topic he spoke about and on which he asked a question, but referring to his specific qualifications. Ambassador Kovacevic has given qualifications regarding the content and quality of the RTS programme, that is correct. These qualifications are strong, but they are neither rude nor rude, nor cursing, and the apostle has the right to do so. He used the team and certain, to say, rhetorical figures whose MP has the right to serve and which are from the domain of some public speech that we know very well. This was used to react to RTS and the theme has been replaced. It was simply not what the MP asked, but the way he asked. In that reaction, he was not protected, so to speak, spared neither MP Kovacevic nor his family, which is the worst. Mr. President, given your capacity to represent Parliament, I have two questions and two clarification requests in this regard. First, it refers to the need for the government to respond quickly or react within the framework of parliamentary regulations of time from 15 days to a parliamentary issue. It really has to be done because it's been a very long time and twice the same question has been asked, and the answer hasn't been answered. It's not just about this issue, it's about the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs and the respect of this institute by the government. Another issue concerns the position of MPs today in Serbia in this society and in this public opinion. I draw your attention to something you know well. Today, by law, the party can register if it has 10,000 signatures. Under our election law, an MP can enter this bench only if at least 220 thousand voters stand behind him. The MP has one feature that has no public function, which is representativeness. As such an MP, he has the right to be morally protected, not only by immunity, which is a classic institution of protection for MPs, but by protecting his, if you will, names as an MP who is in the Assembly and representing citizens. So the second question is for you – what can be done and will you do something to protect the names of MPs in Serbia's public opinion? This is not about public opinion as such, but about certain groups that use a rather anarchical situation of disenfranchised freedom in Serbia today to say what they want, to mud the MPs, to put on a pedestal his family and thus to reduce the importance of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4759	Thank you. MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4760	I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, what will he, the Ministry of Trade and the governor of the NBS do about stopping the price of basic food products that have increased by 30% in the last two months? I am particularly asking, given that global food prices fell 1% in October thanks to the cheaping of grains, oils and fat, and since the European Commission has turned our attention to abolishing monopolies, because there is not enough competition on our market, and that there is a need for more freedom to market economy, which has not yet fully lived in Serbia. A second question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, since the launch of the Office for Rapid Responses has been announced, which should facilitate and improve the position of investors, to shorten procedures, to shorten administration, to give all potential investors all necessary investment data in Serbia within 30 days, when will the office begin their work? Also, a question for Mr. Alexander Vukic, as he is in the task force for the rescue of the Red Star football club. The biggest legend of Yugoslav football is Mr Dragan Džjic, which we like from the SPO. As co-ordinator of the Security Service, has there been any knowledge, which has been public for the past few years, given the situation in the court files, that Mr. Djajic will prove his innocence, that his arrest was on other grounds, rather than on those presented to the public? Was there a warrant that the greatest legend of Yugoslav football would deliberately be humiliated by putting handcuffs on his hands and making it the task of officers to make the greatest legend of Yugoslav football, in this way, recorded and presented to the public? The issue of Ministerial Health, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, what will happen within its jurisdiction and is there a plan for the Ministry of Health to reconstruct the existing and build new rural hospitals? This is a new European principle and many former Yugoslavia countries, such as Slovenia, have particularly stimulated the work of doctors in rural areas by increasing their salaries by 30 or 40 or 50% compared to the city's employees. A question for the prime minister – when will the police administrations of Novi Sad and Nis get their chiefs, because these two police administrations have been functioning for more than three years without their commanders? As police minister, what will they do against police officers who acted in a shameful manner yesterday during the implementation and execution of a court decision in Belgrade? Also, a question for Prime Minister Dacic – is the government planning to draft a bill on agricultural cooperatives, because cooperatives in the Republic of Serbia have a long tradition since 1894? It's not communist fluid, like some people wanted to play. At the beginning of World War II in Serbia, there were 3,500 thousand agricultural cooperatives that fully justified the purpose of their existence. Regardless of some socialistic experiments and wandering in later years after the Second World War, in the process of transition, the cooperative has completely died. If we want to prepare our agriculture for European agricultural policy, for the European market, we need to revive rural cooperatives and thus help our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4761	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and those of the 27th and 154...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4763	You have no right to seek the advertising of the Rules of Procedure during the search for information and explanations of the Members of Parliament. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4764	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask this question on behalf of the workers of Nis, workers of the Electronic Industry, workers of the "Builders", workers of the Nis Machine Industry – Vagonka and MIN-engineering. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, to provide some peace and quiet in the O.R. Your Honor, your MPs are not listening. (President: I ask the MPs of the people to allow the MP who exposes it to do so according to the Rules of Procedure in the intended manner. ) A few days ago, I was with workers of the Nis Machine Industry – the drive of the Vagonka, where the police similarly arrested the mother with the child yesterday, tried to confiscate the machines for the MIN-Vagonists from the executive court. The workers, along with the machines, welded themselves inside their factory without giving up their machines. I believe that the state and this Republic government must ensure that these workers are able to carry out their work uninterruptedly, their production and that these machines that are very important to them cannot be assessed as miserablely as they are assessed by an institution. A machine that costs 25,000 euros that is estimated to be 2,000 euros and that such a machine should be seized. Today I think it takes fighting for new jobs and I personally think we should fight to preserve existing jobs. On behalf of the workers of the Vagonka, the Electronic Industry, "The Hawk", I convey to you that workers, not only Niša, but also workers in other Serbia's environments, have unsettled salaries. Only in Nis 4.136 workers have salaries they haven't received. Mr. President, I ask you to remind the Members of the SNS again, because I am being distracted in my presentation. I know that many are more important than workers, so I would ask you to hear what problems workers have, not just Nis, but all of Serbia. In Nis 4,136 workers did not receive salaries. A total of 93,628 salaries are owed by the state, the collectives owe to these workers. I ask you -- can we make this a question to the Republic government, if the previous Republic government could make a solution to missed earnings, a solution to the integration of internships, that this government finds a solution to the same principle, since the previous government has found a solution to connect this internship by recognising them every month as a minimum profit, minimal? In this case, Nish trade unions and Serbian trade unions are demanding that these salaries, which are due by employers, be paid by the state to these workers, be minimum waged by 20,000 dinars. If on the Nis case alone you have 93,628 salaries that are not paid to the poor workers of Nis, you have to separate two billion dinars to pay for this. I ask you and the entire Republic government -- how will these workers pay their communals, how will they pay the electricity, how will they pay the water, if the state, the companies don't give them money, not pay what they earn? Please, since the budget has not yet arrived on the agenda, plan to put two billion dinars, at least for the workers of Nis, the poorest part of Serbia, into the budget and to compensate those workers for that minimum amount of receiving 20,000 dinars as a minimum. It is also an appeal for other workers, who have not received salaries in Serbia, that this same principle, which I propose on behalf of the Nis Workers, on behalf of the Nis Unions, be a formula throughout Serbia for the 20,000 dinars to be the minimum wage with which these workers will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4765	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, yesterday we witnessed an unkind event in Belgrade in which police applied inappropriate force against a citizen who dared to say - be ashamed. It was not just about an event she directly attended, i.e. The forced emigration of the Matic family, rather than I think it was related to a broader context, which is a policy that has been being run since the last months, since this government has been formed, which is a policy that spreads uncertainty in society, which spreads a sense of insecurity among citizens, which spreads one tension in society and which certainly shows that our rule of law is in serious crisis. When a government does not boast of some concrete results to improve the quality of life of citizens, it applies the methods it tries to make them extremely insecure, trying to intimidate them and trying to control them in this way. I must say, the police are also showing by this reaction that there is a certain tension among them. I must say, probably to your surprise, to understand them. A new law on amnesty on the loose will find a man who pushed a policeman's torch into his mouth. In a way, I think the police feel threatened again, because many of whom they have barely arrested, so to speak, justice and law, will be found at large. On the other hand, I'm going to make one maybe a little tasteless joke, but it seems to me that the Amnesty Act has freed up enough space for citizens who are increasingly shouting in the streets – shame on you, for what is happening right now in our society. One of the questions I'm going to ask today, I think the public deserves to answer the question as soon as possible – how many officers were involved in the move of a four-member family with two children? According to what we saw, there were several police cars, several dozen police officers in uniform and a few dozen police officers in civilians. It is an absolutely inappropriate amount of force vis-à-vis a four-member family, regardless of what context this is happening. That's the first one. Secondly, I think the public must be informed as soon as possible of this – who ordered this kind of action. Third, I think the Department of Justice must consider a case that was a cause for this kind of eviction as soon as possible. I must say that the policy of intimidation is seen in the recent Constitutional Court decision, that it believes that the National Movement in 1389 and Ours should not be banned, unlike the Face Movement that was banned in May of this year, its operation is prohibited, and when you look at the sites of both organisations, you will see that their contents are identical. I am interested – by what criteria has the Constitutional Court made that decision? I'm not asking you a question, I'm talking to the public, I'm going to ask a question, don't worry. I know it's good for you not to be banned in 1389 and ours, but that's what it is. So, at the same time, Ours appears in public with new lists of organisations and individuals who work, they say, against the interests of Serbia and the Serbian national interest, and these lists, as we know, are actually lists of gunshots. I have to say that those of us who are a little older, who have gray beards, we remember how the lists started, they are the invention of a spiritual leader and spiritual father of a movement that rules today, i.e. A party that rules Serbia today and I have to say what I said somewhere, which is -- we survived those lists, we will survive these too. But the question arises – how does this state think it refers to those who openly threaten a different opinion. I have to say that what concerns me is that there is a man sitting in the government who has also been celebrated by making a list of non-national individuals, he's in the Ministry of Culture and Information, and he's in charge of informing. So I ask the question - how will the government deal with those who make lists in the future, what are the direct calls for shots that are inappropriate because of a different opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4767	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Zlata Djeric, Dragomir Karic, Gordana Comic, Emir Elfic, Stefana Miladanovic and Ivica Tončev. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for today's session to discuss the 2nd item of the proposed agenda, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, to attend and Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior. With the call of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda. Before setting out the agenda for the sitting, pursuant to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. National MP Petar Petrovic suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a member of the High Council of the judiciary of Law School Professors, who submitted a joint session of the council of law departments in the Republic of Serbia on 13 November 2012. Also, the proposal to consider this point by an emergency procedure was submitted by the promoter, by letter dated 14 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There was no vote by 128 MPs, against and abstentions, by 28 MPs, and I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put on the agenda of the session of the emergency proceedings, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. No 28 MPs voted for 128 MPs, against and withheld, and I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a MEP OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF PROFESSORS We are moving to work on the established agenda. First item - Proposal for a Member of the High Council of Justice from the Order of Professors of Legal Facultys. You have received a proposal from a candidate for a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professors, who submitted a joint session of the Faculty of Law Deans in the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You received the details in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a hearing on a proposal for a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of Law School Professors. Do the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want the word? I'm sorry, there's someone in the Rules of Procedure. Just sign in. Mrs. Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4768	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm advertising members 27th and 154th. Rules of Procedure. It has been 15 days since the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted by the province of Vojvodina's parliament, came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, within this legal period, we have yet to see even a hint that, at the end of 15 days, it will be put on the agenda of the Assembly's debate on this law. It's very important that we clear things up. Does this parliament take seriously the bill that came from the circuit assembly or not? Be clear about this, given that it is very important to decide on the law in a regular assembly procedure, as the deadline for this parliament to discuss the budget is approaching. If you seriously think about not jeopardizing the constitutional rights of the province of Vojvodina by denying it in part the funds that belong to it under the Constitution, in that case you should amend the existing Budgetary System Act. For now, an initiative to amend the law exists only by the circuit assembly. If you don't put it on the agenda before the budget debate begins, in which case it is at least irresponsible and very irresponsible. Therefore, we expect you as Parliament's president to respect, above all, the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Article 27 and Article 154 which provides for the way the draft laws arrive in the procedure and in what time period.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4769	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I think you are wrong, no member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, because no member of the Rules of Procedure provides that any law must be found on the agenda within any prescribed time limit. So, businessly speaking, I don't think you're right about breaking the Rules of Procedure. As far as this is concerned, I think the subject is serious, which we are trying to reach a consensus on, and in the next period until the budget is put in place, you will have an opinion on what most parliamentary groups think about it. As far as the formal legal party is concerned, Article 27 and Article 154 do not provide for the obligation to put a legal proposal on the agenda within a certain time-limit and I do not think that on that basis you are wrong when you say that I have violated the Rules of Procedure in any way. Of course, if you are not satisfied with this explanation, the National Assembly will declare themselves in the voting day. Are you happy? All right, thanks. Mr Petar Petrovic, rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, president of the Committee, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4770	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, as you know, a while ago, the resignation of a member of the High Council of the judiciary, Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic, Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis, was established here. Afterwards, the High Council of the judiciary entered into the legally established procedure of electing a new member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professors. They finished the job, to our satisfaction, very quickly and very high quality, because last Friday at a meeting of all the law school officials in the Republic of Serbia set out a proposal, the proposal is today ahead of us, that a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Law School in the Republic of Serbia is proposed and nominated by Professor Zoran Stojanovic, professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade. Unlike some earlier proposals that we had the opportunity to wait for a longer period of time when there was a need for a professor to propose a professor who would be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as provided for by the law, this proposal came very quickly and came through a unanimous decision by the Dean of Law Schools in the Republic of Serbia. I won't talk much about Professor Zoran Stojanovic, his results and works are best told about him. For many years, he was a professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, and today he is a professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Behind it are many books of criminal law, many scientific papers from criminal-legal matter, and in this way I think that the election of Professor Zoran Stojanovic will give the High Council of the judiciary, as it will, unfortunately, help with its experience and knowledge to make this body work even better and make decisions that will not come under review before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as has unfortunately happened in the earlier period of time. To avoid much debt, I conclude by asking all my fellow Members and fellow MPs in this House to unanimously support the proposal and to elect Professor Zoran Stojanovic as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Law Faculty in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4771	Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Judita Popovic, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4772	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and we are fully aware that it is really necessary for the High Council of the judiciary to be completed in relation to this member who comes from the ranks of higher education institutions. Reading this proposal, reading Mr. Zoran Stojanovic's biography, we do not really have any objections as to the choice of a specific person. It's just that we don't even want to get into a debate about the same thing. However, it is very important, whenever we talk about the High Council of the Judiciary, to mention the fact that the High Council of the Judiciary is treated in public, what the government's relationship with the High Council of the judiciary is, and whether this High Council of the judiciary has the integrity it needs according to the constitutional definition of its position in this state, i.e. in the judiciary, in the institution of the judicial authority. In fact, when we look at the relationship that is best expressed through some media-accompanied system of attacks on the High Council of Justice, which, for a miracle, comes even from the Justice Ministry, or Parliament itself, from the Justice Committee, etc., then we can see the fact that the High Council of the judiciary is under serious pressure. So, if under pressure, this pressure is political, and political pressure is not allowed to be applied to an independent branch of government, which is actually a judiciary, and the High Council of the judiciary has the ambition to be an authority that chooses judges who are the backbones of the functioning of the judiciary. The pressure was best seen by a statement by the President of the High Council of the judiciary, from several months ago, it seems to me August or September of the month when Mrs Mesarovic said she did not think that the High Council of the Judiciary should be responsible for all the mistakes made during the start and implementation of the judicial reform. This already shows that it has a certain deviation in terms of the role and position of the High Council of Justice in judicial reform and forwards itself and the entire High Council of the judiciary is Abolishing from the fact that judicial reform has stopped somewhere. It is obvious that there is no political will to continue with the reform. It is political pressure, when the President of the High Council of the judiciary responds to you in this way in public, because the High Council of the judiciary also forms part of judicial reform. Not only the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but every judge in particular, together with the Ministry of Justice and the entire government, with all the institutions of this state, represent those bearers and factors of one reform, in this case, concrete reform of the judiciary. That's one good indicator to which the High Council of the Judiciary is compromised. Another very good indicator is that today we are choosing one member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, since previous Professor Dr Predrag Dimitrijevic resigned and resigned after a serious media haranga he was exposed to. In fact, the media harangus encouraged the fact that it was a problem whether the professor was in conflict of interest or not, given that the dean of the university is also a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. It was a pressure, since the dean of law school can really only raise the quality of his work in such an institution as the High Council of the judiciary, and not to humiliate it and not in any way question the legitimacy of the decisions made by that High Council of the judiciary. So, the fact that Mr. Prof. Predrag Dimitrijevic resigned, only talking about having succumbed to certain political pressures. You will allow pressures through the media, through various statements, so all the attacks that have come to his status could not be driven by simple criticism of the public, but it is a clear political position that the High Council of the Judiciary is an institution that must succumb to certain pressures in order to implement certain interests through this High Council of the Judiciary. So, this is very worrying because if we really want to live in the rule of law we must not allow such a single body, as I mentioned earlier, to be treated in this way, is a place and way to be set up, chosen, in fact, by judges working in courts, supervised, controlled, or referred to by law only in terms of the Constitution and the law, and in no case subject to certain political pressures. What happened yesterday is a very good indicator of how the law is implemented in Serbia. This is one of the most recent examples because in the enforcement process it is simply unacceptable to humiliate a citizen, any one of these countries, it is unacceptable to endanger his rights just to execute a court ruling. So there is a very good view of the extent to which one real approach is missing, therefore, of the very judiciary itself in the functioning of the law, in law enforcement, and in this particular case and the endangerment of human rights. So neither the High Council of the judiciary, nor the courts, or the judges individually, nor the prosecutors, nor the police are exempt from respecting the integrity of any citizen of this country in accordance with the Constitution. In that case, if they notice weaknesses in the functioning of that system, they should indicate and take all the steps necessary to correct it. Unfortunately, there have been many times lately that the question of whether we really live in the rule of law, whether we really want to live in the rule of law and whether this government is counting on it to be serious and that the rules of play, procedure, therefore the laws to this extent strengthen that no one outside the institutions can function and outside the institutions to create a policy in this sense that any rights are at risk. So whenever we talk about justice, and specifically today about the High Council of the judiciary, we must first of all bear in mind that both this Parliament and the executive authority must respect both independence and independence, and the expertise of the judicial authority, and to the extent that it is respected on a daily basis by citizens on their own skin. One of the concrete things is to say that the Justice Committee will not discuss the matter until 11.00 a.m. on a proposal to elect members of the High Council of the judiciary and that it is simply incomprehensible to the extent that even the selection of members of the High Council of the judiciary is treated as one ordinary, quite everyday thing in Parliament's work. The proposal to elect a member of this high court body is very important to mark as a work to show that we here in parliament are counting on the fact that from now on, members of the High Council of the judiciary and those elected by function and those elected in the way that the law provides for it from the ranks of the judges, or from the ranks of the professors of law, that they will be able to work and that they will primarily respect the institution in which they are located. So we expect both parliament and the executive authority to respect the High Council of the judiciary. We expect to avoid future political pressures. We expect to avoid attacks on each individual member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to leave it to those who work in it, to leave it to the judicial authority to be the one who is competent to decide on its members, on its judges, on its work. If they have certain objections to the laws and if they think they need certain laws to change, they should initiate and they should be those initiators who will actually withdraw one modernization of the judicial system. Unfortunately, we have so far not had the opportunity to see this kind of approach either by the judicial authority or by the prosecutors, so the lack of both the functioning of the entire judiciary and the application of the law. It is this fact that those who know best, know best, and in fact those who work in law enforcement, in particular during the trial, in the course of filing certain lawsuits and all other actions that involve the work of the judiciary, so they are those who know what difficulties they face and they have to show how difficult these difficulties are to overcome. Not even the executive authority can say that, neither can parliament. We here in parliament can discuss, we can influence transparently everything that happens in terms of the functioning of the judicial authority, we can talk about what kind of relationship the executive authority has with the judiciary, but we cannot affect their work, nor can we call anyone, but this is precisely from the Constitution that this burden of responsibility, independence and independence are borne by those who are actually chosen to work and function as judges. In the end, I would just add one more fact, a very important fact, that it should come out publicly and say what is going on in Serbia's judiciary? So far, it's just a hint, so far it's just a media story about how some laws are going to change. It happened that the Constitutional Court brought judges and prosecutors back to those jobs they were in before the judicial reform was initiated in terms of the election of judges and prosecutors. It happened that we have a third more judges than it was when the general choice of judges was made. We still have the network of courts we had. In addition to the hint we do not have concrete decisions on this, we do not have legal proposals, so we do not actually have what it takes to really bring the courts into a position that they can work independently and independently. If you have a third more judges than the law requires, you're breaking the law. Unfortunately, it is happening that in Serbia it has become absolutely daily and the usual to break the Constitution and the laws, therefore, to violate the Constitution, which was brought in 2006 without our support, because at that time we have already said that this constitution is retrograde and that this constitution is in such a form, with those solutions that it foresees, simply, will not be able, in the right sense, to live and to stop Serbia somewhere. That's what happened. Instead of going to change the Constitution, unfortunately, the Constitution is being broken, and that is simply unacceptable, because if there really is political will, because that is all that remains as a question, that we live in the rule of law, then first of all we have to respect our own Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4773	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to clarify one thing, if I understand Mrs. Judith Popovic correctly. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has discussed the election proposal, i.e. the candidate for a member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, at a session held at 9.45 p.m., and at 11.00 p.m. on the agenda, it is up to you to discuss the report of the High Council of Justice, the State Council of Prosecutors, and after that report when the Committee passes, will come with a proposal for conclusions before this House and before you fellow Members and fellow Members. Therefore, today is the topic of selecting a senior member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, not the topic of consideration, the work of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4775	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4776	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd just like to apologize, if I really did give one incorrect piece of information, that the Justice Committee wasn't discussing this, but the fact is that 15 minutes before this session was started, but I was essentially going to say, and that's one lapus, simply, that at 11 o'clock we're going to be discussing in fact a report on the work of the High Council of Justice. So, I apologize if I gave that one minor inaccuracy, once again, to the chairman of the Justice Committee and the members of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4777	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal of a candidate for a member of the High Council of the judiciary, from the law professor's office. We move to the next item of the agenda, it is a unique search of the proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on Border Control in the Drum, Railway and Water Traffic. You've received a bill from the government. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to article 170 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups you got in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. We'll only wait for a representative of the government to join us. Dear People's MPs, I am setting a five-minute break until Minister Obradovic joins us. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the draft law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. Does the representatives of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4779	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Government about the law that today is subject to consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. As you have seen from the content of the law you have received, it is a document signed and concluded by the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mr Ivica Dacic and for the Government of Hungary by Shandor Pinter. This is the result of negotiations and talks within a mixed committee, and they lasted several years and now this law is before you. The Agreement shall contain the principles and rules on the joint co-operation of contracting authorities responsible for the control of the crossing of the state border, the place of national crossings, the working time and the character of traffic. If you look at this law, you will see parts that very precisely regulate road crossing issues, border crossings and crossing content, so everything is explained in detail. The control of the crossing of the state border shall be carried out independently in the territory of the Contracting Parties, with a closer definition of the authorisation of the business. The only exception to this is crossing the Horgos-Resca road crossing, Article 11. The draft law, in a common location located in the territory of the Republic of Hungary, which makes it different to define jobs and powers in border control. The Agreement shall also contain final provisions laying down the way in which the issues in question are resolved, its entry into force and the expiry of the previous agreements which regulated this matter. I'd like to tell you a few more sentences, the border between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary is 174.4 kilometers long, there are more crossings. The law very precisely determines the regime of crossing state borders, determines what state crossings are, so this will mean for, not only the crossing of the border between the two countries, but also for future good relations between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Serbia. Article 13 also contains what is the future road and border crossing, so that the law is very precise and regulates all issues, and is done together by our and the experts of the Government of the Republic of Hungary. We expect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt it, and thus it will come into force. That would be brief, all that I wanted to tell you. If there is any need for more detailed explanations, I am at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4780	Thank you. Do the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4781	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I just have to say that I find this law in the Assembly to defend the minister of education and education, but with you, the Socialist is all possible, as your president loves it in one song to say. I'd look back on this agenda point, years back on the political key, huge financial resources went to Saturday, which is why some cities and the entire districts were stuck. We can also see that very easily if we are reading the material that we have received on this agenda point. Sombor and the entire Western-Baba district may have felt the motherhood of the state the most. Over Somboro is the closest direction towards the countries of Europe, especially to those cities where our diaspora is the most widespread. It is this data that suggests that an increase in the number of border crossings and the retegorisation of the only existing one, which is Bački Breg, Herceg Santo, is a necessary need that exceeds the regional benefit, because it has great importance for people from all over Serbia who are directly or indirectly connected to our diaspora. Our estimate is that it's directly or indirectly connected to this story I'm talking about, over a million of our people. I said, the retegorization of the only crossing there is, and that is the crossing of Backi Breg, Herceg Santo, and when I talk about increasing the number of border crossings, then I would especially like to mention the border crossing of Ridjica-Gara that was occasionally opened, so that people on one side and on the other hand could communicate, cooperate economically and that in some way villages that are located in an invisible position, try to position it much better than it has been the situation so far and what the circumstances in the country have allowed them to do. The inclusion of the reconstruction and construction of the Vrbas-Kula-Sombor road route, the state border, the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020, with the priority that works start by 2014, through amendments proposed by the late Vladan Batic and I who have been accepted, is a great opportunity for a whole region that has unfairly become a appendix, although it has many potentials. We think now is the right opportunity to open up the story of the Sombor Airport, when we talk about borders, that it's a real opportunity for our agrarian, that the opportunity for better use of the Danube, that this is a good opportunity to revive our villages, as well as the opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises that fill the budget, which are big losers in this economic crisis. It is too high to spend words to explain how close travel infrastructure is to potential investors. We must say that Hungary is already largely in the EU, that Croatia will be tomorrow, that the state of Serbia wants to be a part of this European family as soon as possible, and Sombor as an outcast department and the entire Western-Babas district, but also Vrbas, the Serb, the municipalities that rely on this story and who want to take advantage of their potentials, simply this opportunity must be used, and the state must also take advantage of the potentials they possess. Regional co-operation through the use of various European funds simply imposes itself on us as an imperative, even in spite of the inertness of the local government so far, but good roads and a number of border crossings are a basic prerequisite for the development of this region. The fact is that certain opportunities are being opened, and in order to achieve them, it takes a little more determination of the state and of the state's desire. I believe we won't miss a chance like this, that we won't wait long to realize it. In the end, I would just take the opportunity to say that, when it comes to the past government, that the only man who has any understanding on this matter, when we talk about the potentials of Somboro and the Western-Baba region is the Minister of Spatial Planning, Mr Oliver Dulic, who at this point is one of the most attacked people when it comes to politicians and I purposely want to point out that this is the man who had the understanding, given the fact that he comes from Subotica, that Sombor is a completely deserted environment unfair and that the environment needs help. I hope that this government will understand and that Sombor will never be a appendix again, but that there will be a locomotive on our way to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4782	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4783	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the SPS Parliament Club in Voting Day will support the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water traffic. By supporting this agreement, we are actually in favour of the objective of confirming this agreement in the Republic Parliament, which is to establish a more efficient and common system of control where both Serbia and Hungary would participate, but also other EU countries and EU countries that feel the consequences of illegal crossings. There are many common interests between the two countries, between Serbia and Hungary. Here, first of all, I mean the fight against crime, the common policy that needs to contribute to countering and countering illegal migration and false asylum seekers. Serbia and Hungary have achieved good results when it comes to the past period of time, when it comes to the repression of organised crime, the common policy on the prevention of illegal migration and false asylum seekers. This co-operation is, in fact, improved in a way by this agreement, which is very precise and clearly defined common jobs. Some data that may have been heard over the past period in public say that some eight million people have crossed the Serbian-Hungarian passport border in the past, while there were several thousand who did not have a passport at the time. The inflow of illegal migrants is a problem that exists in other countries. It is certain that the biggest problems are precisely the permeability of the border in southern Serbia and insufficient capacity to accommodate people who are illegally crossing the border. So, clearly, the border between Serbia and Hungary is actually the border with the EU. This agreement, which is the interest of both states, is the interest of both Serbia and Hungary, needs to make the border impenetrable, impenetrable for crime, illegal immigrants, and, on the other hand, easy to pass for citizens of both countries, to reduce the traffic jam that existed on this side of the border crossing even during tourist seasons. In realising this very clear and precisely defined goal, the agreement we are talking about today also provides for the establishment of a joint office, which will be on Hungary's territory and which is in fact a continuation of very good co-operation between the two police, police and police in Hungary. So this is just one of the bilateral agreements between Serbia and Hungary. As we could hear, there are also a number of others in preparation, including an emergency co-operation agreement, an internal control co-operation agreement, a period of tourist seasons. Also, I would say that this agreement opens up the possibility of co-operation in other fields as well. New border crossings will be opened, which will facilitate cross-border crossings, not only by road, but also by river crossings, which will certainly affect the rise to a higher level of co-operation, for example, in the area of tourism between the two countries. Of course, the excellent co-operation held by the two ministries, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of the Republic of Hungary, contributes to the improvement of the relations between the two countries, but also to the improvement of the relations of the two nations. This contributes to one and a more peaceful and peaceful life of citizens in Vojvodina. In the end, I want to say very clearly once again that the SPS MPs' club in voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4784	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4785	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, New Serbia will support this agreement in the voting day. We are very aware of the importance of signing this agreement and its ratification in future co-operation between Serbia and Hungary. To that end, for the sake of its better application, we want to point out the importance of this law, which is very precise and clear, but also some provisions that should not be changed, but simply the problems that need to be overcome in its better application and operation. The agreement between the two governments should allow harmonisation of goods control across the state border, on the one hand. On the other hand, the state border should be easily transitible to citizens and impenetrable to illegal migrants and criminals. As Mr. Obradovic said, Mr. Dacic, signing this agreement on January 24th in Subotica with his colleague, Shandor Pinter, said the aim of this agreement should be to better control so-called. green lines, given that more than 3,000 asylum seekers are in our country and that more than 5,000 illegal migrants have entered our country and that we have a major problem with asylum accommodation capacity, since God’s Word and Banja Koviljača can only receive a little more than 150 people. It is very important that this agreement in Article 20 enables the opening of a joint office, according to a respected counterpart, Milicevic, who will allow the exchange of information between the two countries with a special reference to immigrants, human trafficking, drugs, vehicles and other goods. We also welcome the government's efforts to decommission the most frequent crossings and to open a new border crossing between Bačka Vinograd-Atohal, as provided for by Article 6 of this law. Article 14 of the Treaty provides that Contracting Parties may agree to carry out joint control of passengers in rail traffic while the train is standing or during transit, all in order to reduce the waiting time for the crossing of the state border. Thus, this member will facilitate the position of passengers using the train. What is particularly important to this law, apart from what I said, is Serbia and Hungary's economic co-operation, as well as the experiences Serbia needs to take advantage of Hungary for faster EU accession. The two countries also link the Danube Strategy, and Serbia and Hungary jointly implemented 183 EU-funded projects with 34.3m euros in border international co-operation. There are certain problems in the realization of these pre-accession projects. Their overcoming should be the top priority of this government. That's something I wanted to point out in my presentation. The problem is that most of the projects, about 70, refer to so-called. soft projects in the area of economic co-operation, education, culture and less on infrastructure financing and environmental protection. It's obviously easier for people to design projects from areas that don't require additional permits from the central level of government, because then the whole process would take longer. Given that the government's priority is to reduce the procedures for obtaining permits, I expect it to simplify and shorten the procedures, so that money from European funds, obtained for these border co-operation projects, is also directed to infrastructure and projects in the field of environmental protection. Another obstacle is that Serbia has not yet signed and ratified the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Co-operation or so on. The Madrid Convention. We are not one of five countries that has not signed this Convention, although it gives a legal framework to local and regional authorities to co-operate with cross-border municipalities, without fear of jeopardising national sovereignty. One problem is the lack of capacity for one part of our municipalities to prepare projects according to EU standards, as well as the obligation for participants to co-finance a project with at least 15% of the value from their own sources. To solve these problems in full, it is necessary for the local self-government and regional development ministry to enable the education of works of municipalities to be written according to European standards, and for our municipalities to be able to finance these projects in the redistribution of budget funds, because their profits are multiple, and the loss of these funds is permanent and irrevocable. Comparing Serbia and Hungary's economic indicators, Hungary last year had 80 billion euros in exports, and Serbia had 5.4 billion euros in exports. On the other hand, Serbia is the second largest export market in the former SFRY and the first import market for Hungary, which means that Hungary imports more from Serbia than from Croatia. Serbia's exports to Hungary have increased six times over the past ten years, from $11.6m to $856m. The foreign trade exchange between Serbia and Hungary in 2011 amounted to a billion and 208m dollars, which is an increase of some 16% compared to 2010, and I believe that these statistical indicators will be even better this year and every following year, as this government recognises the importance of co-operation in the region, which is also confirmed by recent visits by President Nikolic Macedonia, Greece and Hungary, and that ratification of this agreement will allow for even more effective co-operation in all areas. In order to create a coherent and cooperative region with a sustainable and secure environment, New Serbia will support ratification of this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4786	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4787	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I simply felt obliged to ask for a word about this point for the reason that yesterday when we got the agenda, I later came to lunch and in the hallway heard from my colleagues that this is a technical question, we'll soon solve it, it doesn't matter that much. I have a different opinion. This bill is very important, not only for Vojvodina, not only for the citizens of the northern Vojvodina, but for the citizens of Serbia as well as for many Europeans. As we heard earlier, about eight million passengers cross the border crossings that are few in the north of the country. I wanted to welcome this agreement that was finally signed. According to my information, as early as 2005, the Hungarian state proposed that this agreement be made. It's been almost seven years, and thank God and some people, we finally got to the point of finding it before us. In addition to these crossings that are verified for the crossing of faces and goods, they are Kelebija – Tompa, it is Horgos – The Thrusts, just a couple so called. Malanian crossings have worked in the last period, i.e. in the past period. When the holidays came, when the time came for New Year's Eve, when it was religious holidays, believe me, at these crossings you just couldn't cross. It's been waiting five, seven hours. Those of our fellow citizens who work and live outside Serbia, and wanted to come, to take advantage of two, three days of their vacation, simply lost here when they came in and when they went out for half a day, sometimes more. I have many friends who, unfortunately, have left the country and live in Germany. Zolica this year, the summer he arrived, he waited 12 hours for a new crossing on the Horgos highway. So, in any case, we help them, too, and also our citizens living in the north of Buck, who sometimes have to do some work over, in Hungary, and how we help, because we wait 30 km from the Hungarian border, wait 12 hours okay, believe me, it's not easy and it just pisses all our citizens off. That is why I am particularly pleased and I am pleased that with this bill, two crossings by Bajmok – Bacsalmas, Djala – Tisa Sigget, finally obtain verification and a regular transition for natural persons. Until now, it has been restricted only to the citizens of Serbia, for our citizens if they went with our country's registration. This law frees all citizens of the EU, citizens of Switzerland and others that they can pass from morning to evening. I think we're significantly relieving the border crossing that's overloaded. I must say, a colleague who first asked for a word used words to surprise him that someone must defend, or that Mr. Minister must defend this law. I don't care who comes from the government about this bill, but it's not like it's the word "define." This law should not be defended, this law should be supported. This is extremely important for a huge number of our citizens. However, the same colleague who mentioned these words mentioned something very important, which is not foreseen by this bill and I have to support it. So two goods crossings are not enough for the Republic of Serbia. The third law provides, as Bački Breg – Herceg Santo said, for now for goods, i.e. 3,5 tonnes of trucks and provides for a possible variation of up to six tonnes. We in Senta have a customs station that's overloaded, we have in Subotica, which is absolutely overbooked. As a businessman, I know what's going on and how many trucks and drivers are waiting. I think our ministry and our authorities have to work to open up another crossing, to train right around Somboro, namely Backi Breg – Herceg Santo line to train the traffic of goods and large trucks and to train it with all the services so that we can receive the goods. It is very important and important and a great help will be the opening of two new border crossings that have not worked so far. It's going to be a little strange, but the old Horgos-Reske crossing, which is 500 meters and 100 meters from this crossing, has not been operational for the past ten years. Four years old, five times I'm going to Hungary. I always come across a problem about how to cross over because of the crowd, and we're always wondering why you don't use an object that's 100 meters away. I'm glad that you've now predicted this agreement to be put into operation, regardless of how many people are, so on foot, bicycles, motorcycles can cross, but I think it'll help the same thing. More important is the opening of the Bačka Vinogradi crossing – Ashutalom, between Subotica and Horgoš. I think it will make a significant contribution to easier traffic and crossing the border. I want to refer to one more question. A few previous colleagues talked about, that in addition to these benefits that we get for the citizens, with this agreement, that is, with this law, we will do one more big thing, which is this green border, this particular migration, that the colleague talked about a little while ago. I have to tell you, the greatest migration pressure has two police departments. It's the police administration of Subotica and the police administration of Kikinda. So 100% of all migrants go through this territory. You need to know that our administrations operate at 50% capacity. So we don't have enough police officers on the ground in Kikinda, or Northboa County, or Northboa County, and that's the same problem in Subotica. It's up to 60% full capacity. They've got a lot of problems. These people are making huge superhuman efforts to control that green border, along with the Hungarian state. As my colleague said, I know that co-operation between the two states is very good. It is such good co-operation that I must say that three weeks ago, the head of the Kikinda Police Administration, Mr Jovic Dragan, had just received a special line of Hungarian police, or interior minister for extremely good co-operation between the two countries, i.e. these two regions there. Therefore, I think that even in this function, with the adoption of this law, we will help easier control of the border crossings on both sides. I don't think there's any dilemma for me and my colleagues from the URS parliamentary group. We don't defend, we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4788	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4789	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is of paramount importance for SVM that we are finally discussing a law confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. We heard in Mr. Minister's statement that this agreement was actually signed in Horgos on 24 January 2012. I must stress that the Hungarian parliament ratified this agreement immediately, on 13 February 2012. The question arises – why are we in the process only since 11 October 2012? He hasn't even been in the process before, and it's a good thing he's finally on the agenda. The question arises – why has it been so many months? As for the SVM parliamentary group, already in 2008, in fact on 6 November, at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it is necessary to open new crossing points, both for business and for citizens themselves. Hungary was already ready by then, but this whole procedure has been extended. There is currently a meeting of businessmen, which is why Mr. Pastor is not present, in Kickinda, and there is evidence of how new border crossings are and how significant this agreement is for the businessmen themselves. I must also point out that Mr Ivica Dacic, when we asked the question, answered in writing on 12 December 2008, when he stressed that indeed the then government had reached a conclusion confirming the basis for negotiating the conclusion of the agreement. It was 2008, and now in 2012, it's November. The agreements so far are from 1983, 1996 and 2000, and of course, they now cease to apply. What we've heard in previous exhibitions is what we all know is a real problem at these border crossings, that there are huge detentions that have made it necessary to prevent and remove these obstacles and traffic congestion. I have a few things to commend from this bill on confirming the agreement. This is, for example, Article 6 which stresses that in cases where economic or social interests so require, the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties may also obtain the opening of temporary border crossings at the state border. Article 24 says the parties will consider establishing other border crossings other than those contained in this Agreement. It is extremely important that Article 20 stresses that a common contact centre is being established on the territory of Hungary, at the border crossing, on the highway for international traffic of passengers and goods of Horgos. What was said was that two river crossings were highlighted. There is one on the Danube near Bezdan and one on Tisa near Kanjiža, as well as two railway border crossings, Subotica – Kelebija and Horgoš – Reska. Speaking of railways, as far as railways are concerned in this section, what SVM welcomes is, in any case, to speed up passenger control and to simply reduce waiting times, the contracting parties can agree to conduct joint control of passengers in rail traffic while the train stands or during transit, which is very good. Road border crossings, what's most important, we certainly have to commend, that instead of the five so far six plus one is proposed, and that's what I would call six plus that one in the future. It is extremely important that at the border crossings of Baimomk-Baxalmas, Djala, Tisa Siget, so far at these border crossings, they have applied only to citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Hungary, but from now on they also refer to EU citizens, other countries that are signatories of the agreement on the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation, etc. It is also significant that working hours, ranging from seven to 17 hours, are now from seven to 19.00 hours, instead of eight to 18.00 hours, or I go to 16.00 hours, which is an improvement of several hours. The question is, why isn't the working hours between 00.00 and 24:00 hours? They're probably technical reasons, but that's the question. He's mentioned so-called. The old orti road crossing of Horgos-Resca, which works on the territory of Hungary from seven to 1900 hours. Of course, it says so – when the necessary technical and infrastructure conditions are provided, traffic will be granted for vehicles that are not allowed on the highway, as well as traffic for pedestrians, bicycles, only at the old border crossing of Reska-Horgoš. But it has been stressed that international traffic at this crossing as well as longer working hours can also be granted temporarily. What we heard in the exhibition and what's interesting is that the official premises for the needs of the officials of the Republic of Serbia provide Hungary, as we know, as well as that officials of the Republic of Serbia can exercise border control to comply with the laws of their country, here in these common rooms, in the same measure and with the same efficiency as they do in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in their own country. So in this joint location, it's very important. It is also mentioned the future road crossing of Bačka Vinogradi – Ashothalom. The transfer control shall be carried out at a common location, located on the territory of Hungary. Hungary has invested 2m euros in the facility, with EU funds. It is said here that, after providing adequate technical and infrastructure conditions, the date of opening the border crossing will be agreed on a diplomatic path. The question is, when will this happen? Is it February, for example, or do we have a plan when it will be? This transition will work as Bajmok and Djala. Following the provision of appropriate technical and infrastructure conditions, international passenger traffic across this border crossing may be authorised, or working time extended. Finally, I must further point out that for the old Horgos-Resk road crossing, it would be necessary to sign a statement of intent, in order to compete with EU funds to renovate this border crossing. As far as we're aware, the deadline for the competition is the end of November, so a few weeks. The last meeting, if we're not mistaken, was August 29th. Since then, that question has neither been opened nor mentioned. To conclude, another question – why are we only now ratifying this agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4790	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4791	Dear fellow MPs, the President-in-Office, we have an agreement before us that is in every sense the crown of the two governments' multi-annual efforts. No matter who's in power in this country, every government has tried since October 5th to make this deal. In every sense, this agreement should be supported. I think it is very important that some things, which have definitely been confirmed as problematic in the border belt towards the Republic of Hungary, are opened up to as many of these border crossings as possible over time and to find means to hire new people who will be able to stay in certain places for 24 hours. It's very good that there's a very clear perspective here. Hungary is one of our most important neighbours of the Republic of Serbia, the Hungarian people are very close to our people, we live in co-existence and in harmony with the AP Vojvodina. I don't have to say how much the Republic of Hungary so far is our rights and perhaps the only, in terms of trade and economic relations, gates with the EU and of strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. What we can certainly say is that the making of this agreement took too long. There were major obstacles on our part and administrative and bureaucratic nature, human nature. Again, we have a problem with the most successful ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to Prime Minister Dacic, it is the MUP. So, the MUP is not able to even today to ensure full operationality and human resources of the two most important police administrations. In this sense, it's police administrations in Kikinda, Subotica. These are the real indicators of insufficient efficiency of the MUP and that is what should be righted by the government as soon as possible. I want to say one more thing. This agreement comes to the People's Assembly in secluded if you want to visit the President of the Republic of Budapest in the most positive sense, where the President of the Republic confirmed the closeness of two states and two nations and gave clear indications that this relationship would continue to develop in a positive direction. What is irrelevant in this whole story is two things – firstly, President Nikolic said in Budapest when the issue was raised... It is the subject of relations with the Republic of Hungary, and this is an agreement with the Republic of Hungary, and in that sense I have to explain that we are not just talking about border houses and crossings here, but we are talking about what they are for, and they are for the best relations with neighbors. So, I have to say that President Nikolic pointed out by means of a device that the AP Vojvodina must have its own Constitution guaranteed rights, which is what he said in Budapest. That goes for probably the 7% in the budget. Therefore, I think it would be good for this government to listen to President Nikolic's word... (President: Mr. Stefanovic, this is not a topic. ) The second topic is what is said in Budapest, we are going towards historic reconciliation with the Hungarian people. This agreement is part of the broadest possible relationship with the Republic of Hungary. But since Budapest is being told by the head of state that we are going towards historic reconciliation then I think it is convenient and useful to explain to us who we are dealing with, where we will be calming down, especially in Bačka that interests us. When we meet two people who are known auditers in their countries, Mr Orban in Hungary and Mr Nikolic in Serbia, we are interested in what extent they are going to go with the revision of history, whether the Serbian president will bow down to those who killed the Jewish, Serbian and Roma population in Bačka, whether the same monument is said to be dedicated to the first victims from 1944 to 1945, and where they will be dedicated to those who died in the New Zealand raid, and whether it is possible that no one has conducted the president's cabinet that we have formed a historic commission to determine the exact name and name of those who committed crimes and those who are victims, because he knows that unfortunately there are cases in Vojvodina... (President: Mr Stefanovic, please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... that on the boards the people who are victims stand names and those who have committed crimes. So we have to avoid it and that's what we don't have to deal with. We need to make peace with innocent victims, worship them, not those who have committed a crime. I'm afraid two state summits don't look the same way. That's what concerns me as a people's MP and citizens of Serbia living in Vojvodina. You know very well what I'm talking about. This agreement is certainly important, if you will, part of the mosaics of building the best possible relations with the Republic of Hungary, but let us not forget that we are a country in transition and on our way to the EU and that Hungary is our very important neighbour, but that in the Republic of Hungary there are people who view our recent history very differently. Therefore, make sure that before we start with historical reconciliations, we complete the quote, to determine who we are at peace with and in what way, and it seems to me that we from the DS know a lot about these things and we can clearly talk about it regardless of these nervous and inappropriate comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4792	Does Minister Obradovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4793	First of all, I would like to thank the MPs who took part in the debate on this law and point out that the Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic, is not with you today because he is in an official visit to the Republic of Slovenia and that is the only reason I think he would be very pleased to be here today with you instead of me, because someone who essentially initiated this agreement in relation to his final creation in 2008, and eventually he signed it. You have seen in the content of this law that it aims to improve traffic, road, rail and river, traffic of goods and passengers, that in addition to six planned openings of the 7th border crossing. I would like to point out on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the opening procedure of the seventh crossing has been initiated and that this law provides a legal basis for what is good, because it will speed up the opening process, that, in addition to the seven border road crossings, we have two railways and four river crossings, two on the Danube and two on Tisa. He's right when he says this law shouldn't be defended. In itself, it has a lot of quality and should absolutely support it. Why hasn't he been in the process before? One of the essential reasons is the election. As you know, as much memory serves me, somewhere in February, there was a marathon session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in March, and then it gave up and then the elections followed, so the government's constitution was on July 27th, and now the law is on the agenda. I hope that the National Assembly will accept this law and thereby confirm the character of good relations between the RS and our neighbour, Hungary. What I would like to highlight is Article 20 and Article 22. – forming a common contact centre, as the essence of this law is not only the improvement of co-operation and the acceleration of the flow of passengers and goods, but also the joint action of the two countries at border crossings to prevent illegal migration and to prevent similar criminal acts. If you look at the content of this Article 20, which speaks of forming a common contact centre, you can see that there is absolute willingness to improve co-operation for the benefit of citizens and two countries. The formation of a mixed commission is foreseen to implement this agreement. What is important to mention, perhaps even at the very end, is that the law is so well-conceived that the time-defined content of the work of these road crossings is. If there is a need, this is a question that has been asked, due to the great crowds created at a certain time of year due to the great inflow of passengers, then it is possible to agree diplomatically to extend the working time of these roadside crossings and to facilitate the flow of passengers. In any case, proposed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of the Prime Minister who is in Slovenia today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that in the voting day this law is passed and thus indicates that Serbia is committed to improving co-operation with its neighbours, of course to the Republic of Hungary. No wonder the border crossings, I say, on the edges of the EU towards us in certain parts of the year are such that it causes a certain duration. As much as our police have worked hard, there is a certain procedure when you have to check the identity of passengers and vehicles, and it takes a certain time, because there are no border crossings within the EU and can be freely traveled. So we are on one side of the EU's borders, which is why the process of crossing the other is time-consuming. In any case, this is a good opportunity for the law to be passed and good relations to advance, and for passengers and goods to be accelerated. As far as the other issues are concerned, I propose that in the election day MPs exercise their right to request answers from the relevant state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4794	I am concluding a single search on the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all sitting agenda points, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, November 15, 2012, starting at 12:00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-15-0.u4795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a candidate for a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Law School Professors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on a proposal for a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professor's order, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Zoran Stojanovic, a regular professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, who submitted a joint session of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – no, abstention – one, 11 of the 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen most of the votes of all MPs as a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professor Dr Zoran Stojanovic, a regular criminal law professor at the University of Belgrade Law School. Let me congratulate you, on your own and on your own behalf, on your choice and wish you a lot of success in your work. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on Border Control in Road, Railway and Water Traffic. I remind you, on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to that proposal of the law, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – two abstentions – no, two out of 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I remind you that we will continue our work on Tuesday at 10.00 hours.
