ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u7994	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. To determine the MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Dronjak and Aleksandar Čotriæ. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, for the sake of a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 5, 7, 20 and 23 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Velimir Ilic, the Minister of Construction and Urbanism and Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Transport, called for the sittings to be also attended by Pavle Galić, assistant minister of traffic. We continue to work on a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 5, 7, 20 and 23 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 5, 7, 20 and 23 of the agenda, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the terms of the economic crisis, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. Does the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, the minister of construction and urbanism, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u7995	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extraordinary pleasure today to continue a project that was launched in the previous government, but it is not finished, and that is why we have proposed today to discuss the law on the aid of the construction industry and the construction industry, that a project that has been done be brought to an end. You may also know that at the outset as a MP in the opposition, I was in principle against this law the way it was conceived, but it was voted. Projects have started all over Serbia. They're done in part and they have to end. We have big problems that projects that have started, most of them haven't been paid to date. The current situations that came from the previous period are over 2.5 billion and by the end of the year all payments must be made to construction firms that carried out the work. Also, these projects have begun to work. Some are half, some are 80%, some are 30%. They have to finish. It would be sad to see these projects fail now and that is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the proposal for parliament to extend the law to 2013 and 2014, so that all projects will be completed. It's a better situation now. Why? The government has allocated budgets for projects to be carried out in 2013. So everything that's going to be done will be paid. That is why it will be one legal aid, an incentive for construction, which is an engine for the development of the Serbian economy, and will also certainly be an incentive for construction industry producers. You know, it was one of the conditions for 70% of the company's labour force to be domestic, that the equipment be domestic, and that's the incentive of the domestic construction industry. I'm sure you come from cities where these projects are ongoing and many are done and cannot be left behind. Their preservation is extremely expensive, so we have to finish them off and bring them to an end. Therefore, I ask you to support this law and help us simply to live, which the builders are asking of us. First, they want us to pay off all previous years' debts and make sure that everything they do in 2013 is paid in time and in 2014 to end it and to bring it all to an end. The second thing is very important, since the debate is united, we have one change to the Law on Planning and Construction, which has caused many reactions in Serbia. When you mention the conversion, all comment in their own ways, however, the conversion when it was brought and adopted stopped complete construction in Serbia. Before the Law on Conversion was passed, we had 180 thousand construction workers in Serbia. We've got 78 grand today. Since the adoption of the Convertation Act, all major investments have stopped. In particular, only a single conversion has been made since the Law on Conversion was passed in Belgrade. That conversation was done by the company Advanced. No more conversions have been made and no more projects have been implemented. It is currently estimated that over two billion euros of projects are waiting for implementation, but until conversion is done, no building permit can be obtained. The concept of conversion is unknown to any bank. A foreign investor cannot get the funds to pay for the conversion and no one will support it and everyone has made a point to us that the only one in Europe has the concept of conversion and no other state. Therefore, in order to defuse the projects that are in the stage of preparations for obtaining a building permit and construction, we must postpone the conversion until the planning and construction laws are passed, which will be brought in the shortest of six months and come to parliament here with you. It is a system law that had to be done very carefully and well because it should encourage both planning and construction in Serbia. You know that construction is an engine for the development of Serbia's economy, and that's why we need to make it very carefully. We have delayed this change, or delaying the conversion, so that no compensation can be made and that building permits can be obtained to the law that we will comply with. The law itself will have this item that is purely political, where we will all simply make a common decision, talk about it. If we abolish it at last, then we will together and abolish it and come here to parliament as a new law that must simply be passed. You know that we are on the ranking list of third countries in the background of the issue of building permits and opportunities and conditions for construction and logistics provided. It's devastating to us. We're required to stop the conversion. Here, and today some have written a memo, and banks and everyone else, not to make this a change of one attitude, but to permanently lift it. However, we cannot do so until we have passed a new law on planning and construction. My proposal will be to finally end it, because with that conversion we can't continue to work. Don't let anyone want some controversial privatisation to wash through conversion. He says we gave it away for nothing, but he'll make up for it through conversion. There are other ways to tax it, to do it, etc., but conversion as a conversion is an unknown concept. So in order to launch many projects, we have to work on it. Conversions to the interior of Serbia are those that are free of charge and have nothing to pay for. Otherwise in Belgrade, only one conversion was made in three years or four. Construction that is in a difficult situation has asked us to resolve this issue, and everyone who is interested asked us to fix it, banks, the world bank, everyone is looking for a new law on planning and construction. Everyone's asking for a permit on one counter, everyone's asking for a building permit not to be paid in advance, but to be free, and in the course of construction, to make use of the permits concesively peaceful. Everyone wants to just pay for what the city or municipality invests in that building facility, and there is no price and some obligations that are not executed on the ground. Everything an investor can do alone can't pay again. So this is a law that we'll definitely pass in six months and we'll cover it all. We have to work very seriously to get into a system of banks that finance certain projects. All consent has been obtained for this delay of conversion until the adoption of the law. I asked for consent from all relevant institutions in Serbia, from various associations, from builders, from the Republic Public Defence and all ministries in the government, the Secretariat of Law, the Office for European Integration, and all unanimously delivered a positive opinion that this must be done in order for the construction season to be met ready. The conversion was a matter of corruption, and that's why she didn't even come to life. Everything was as individual as what and who would judge and in what way, so no one would pay it. So we have to deal with it. Only those who had the funds were able to make the conversion. To get from the banks, they couldn't do that, because the bank doesn't fund the conversion. Therefore, I ask you to support us to make this decision, to change a member who is controversial, with the obligation to adopt a new law on planning and construction here together in six months' time, and to receive for him the support of all the institutions that are necessary. It is an extremely important law and we have already requested the opinions of the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Development Bank and all those currently financing projects in Serbia. All foreign investors have stopped with their investments due to the unresolved issue of conversion. You can't explain to them that they need to pay for the conversion, because they can't possibly understand that notion. We can't explain because they can't understand. In order for everything not to stand in Serbia, we must do this together. I welcome you on behalf of my colleague Milutin Mrkonjic, since the debate has been united, which is currently being prevented from coming here. There's his associates, if there's anything they need, they'll help this issue that's on the agenda. There are the gentlemen who came from the Department of Traffic. Therefore, I ask you to support us to do something together, to run and unplug this plug that was created in construction. To start building and manufacturing construction materials and hire thousands of people, to get at least those 100,000 builders back to work and get jobs like it was four years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u7996	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u7997	Dear President, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, encouraging the development of the construction industry due to the negative effects of the global economic crisis did not produce planned results in the previous period. Neither the construction industry recovered, nor the number of employees increased, nor the liquidity of the construction sector increased, nor led to job creation. All these were the promises of previous ministers, at the time of the adoption of this law, the justification for voting in the Assembly for one such proposal. In order to pass this law, it has been pointed out that domestic construction companies will be employed. We received assurances that 325 last government projects will be financed from already provided budget funds. That is, 250 has been provided funding from the budget, and for the other 75 projects, funds are entirely in the hands of authorised project promoters. A moment ago, in an informal conversation with Minister Ilic, I learned that from what was planned to be paid to domestic construction firms, very little, or almost nothing came into their accounts. This is an indication that the justification for the adoption of this law did not serve the purpose of recovering the domestic construction industry, but once again showed carelessness and neglect towards everything that comes from Serbia, because I do not believe that any government in Serbia would treat foreign construction firms in this way. It announced that 113 projects totalling 5.4 billion dinars would be approved by local self-governments from Vojvodina territory, 11 projects 4.2 billion in Belgrade, and 126 projects worth 7.9 billion dinars approved by other local self-governments. I ask the question, by what criteria is it decided... Mr. President, please, if you could remind your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u7998	I ask all colleagues to allow Mr. Jugovic to complete his exposure in the normal atmosphere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u7999	I ask the question, by what criteria is it decided? Has anyone ever looked at a demographic map, what projects will be of priority, and what are 325 projects? I am convinced, taking part in Serbia's political life, the similar size of its political party, that those people who have had political influence in their local environments have provided through ties from the ministries, the financing of these local self-governments. So without a systemic problem resolution, the problem of the construction industry has been resolved, with a promise to reduce the number of unemployed. I have here some of the speeches that were released in 2010 during the adoption of this law, the minister who says that for each invested dinar in the area of construction, we would get three dinars for investment in other sectors of the economy. Every new job to get four new jobs in the branches they support. That's exactly what I'm saying 100. Thousands of builders lost their jobs in the previous period. We cannot talk about some effective effects of this law, especially when it comes to employment. Even if everything is ideal on this plan, we're facing another problem. The relevant organisations dealing with the supervision of public finances, for example, the Coalition for the Control of Public Finance and Transparency of Serbia, see the Law on the Encouragement of Serbia's construction industry as unconstitutional under the economic crisis. They even filed a constitutional court assessment of the constitutionality of this law. They consider the provisions of this law in direct contrast to the Serbian Constitution, the CEFTA Central Europe Free Trade Agreement 2006 and the EU SAA. The justification for extending the validity of this law to this government is that the objects that have already begun to be built remain on the wind and cannot be left to negligence, but must be finished. However, if the law was subsequently suspended, that provision to suspend the Law on Public Procurement, I ask the ruling coalition, which is why it is not, in an accelerated procedure, to pass the Public Procurement Act, in order to prevent any possible abuses of the future in the fight against corruption, which is certainly supported by the SPO, even though it is the opposition party? So, what was not rushed by the Law on Public Procurement and then extended the validity of the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry under the conditions of negative effects of the global economic crisis? If this law had really had good effects, wouldn't we be in a situation where we are that this government pays the debts of the previous government? We know and now we see quite clearly that the basis for the adoption of such a law, regardless of all the objections of relevant NGOs, which deal with the public finance sector, is that the basis for the adoption of such a law was in the nearness of parliamentary elections. In these parliamentary elections of the political party and I do not amnesty, on the contrary, I am asking that part of the current government, which was part of the previous government and which had a great political impact and which, we all know well, had local powers through which he financed his campaign and based his campaign, which is why Serbia has brought into this situation that the current government is paying the debts of projects that have served only the political promotion of certain parties? How can they be so irresponsible and swear in parliament that they are responsible and that they are the one-political force that will lead to even regional development, which will decentralised Serbia and that will regulate Serbia according to the European model? The Public Finance Control Coalition and Transparency Serbia are calling on the Constitutional Court to accept the initiative and suspend the application of the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry under the conditions of the economic crisis and to make a decision declaring this harmful and corrupt law unconstitutional and out of the legal force. So, these are the relevant applicants of the initiative, "The Toplical Centre for Democracy and Human Rights", Prokuplje, "The Centre for the Development of the Non-profit Sector", Belgrade, "Citizen reading room Pirgos", Pirot, "The Užic Centre for Human Rights and Democracy", "Resurs Centre", Majdanpek, "Belgrade Centre for Human Rights" and "Transparency of Serbia". In those 2010 announcements, we come to this because I looked at what the former minister was saying in the adoption of this law, that projects for the construction of schools and kindergartens, hospitals and other health institutions, apartments, highways and other state roads, sports facilities, facilities for the use of the activities of philskculture and other objects of public importance. We're all witnesses, we're sitting here in Parliament. I ask the citizens of Serbia -- how many schools and kindergartens have they seen in recent years that they have been built in Serbia, how many health institutions, hospitals, how many highways and other state roads, how many sports facilities? We know how he got past Fighter Stadium in Chačka. We know that the construction started, that the previous government did not provide enough funding and that now the burden of paying their pre-election campaigns, therefore, of strong political parties from that period, who had been participating and asking themselves in the previous government, as they are asking in this government, would again be paid by citizens of Serbia from their political campaigns. When we swear to centralisation and even regional development, why don't we ever think about how poor the East of Serbia is, how poor is the South of Serbia, how many people have been missing for the last ten years in Serbia? Five hundred thousand people died more than they were born. Has this fact been taken into account when approving a project of schools and kindergartens, hospitals, highways, state roads, sports facilities? Is this a fight for Serbia's decentralisation and even regional development? I am more, the SPO, as well as the DHSS, in order for that minister and the government that leaves the post, which brings the mandate, which has been removed from power, to account with Serbian citizens. I would be happier if in this Parliament today I had a report that these are projects, which are municipalities funded in the previous period, which are mayors who received funds from Serbia's budget to run their own private campaigns, whose money was run by these campaigns, which is why the current government has to pull chestnuts out of the fire, regardless of what we are opposition, and to pay the debts of that part and that government or those coalition partners that are now their coalition partners. Is Serbia a hostage country for several political parties without which power cannot be formed? Can't everything change from the root in Serbia? Can't we start over? Can't we make a political scene according to the example of that man from Velikov Krajina, who doesn't even have a kindergarten, has no school? Why does everything have to be done according to the political model, as far as the central government is sending us funds, we have a strong enough political relationship, we will have so many votes and authorities in the elections? It's a vicious circle that you can't get out of. So the most important thing at this point is that all of those projects from the previous period are subject to verification, to see what has been done, where this project documentation, where this building facility, where 70% of which is supposed to come into the company's budget, is based on this law, the domestic company will also foster economic growth, which will also boost Serbia's economic recovery. Like this, everything remains a dead letter on paper. I don't know, I can't criticise those of whom I never expected to be able to change Serbia in time after October 5th as an opposition. I can only criticise those of whom I expected that after October 5th, everything we must have fought for ten years before that October 5th, before 2000, will try to implement it. We have become hostages of political functions, centralist authorities. We became the hostages of one imagined belief that the benefits offered by the minister, the position of MPs, the position of government, were inherited, so we allowed all those who came to power after October 5th to change, to realize that for their personal interest change meant no benefit, but rather to take over the old way of ruling and in the same way that Serbia was destroyed from the 90s to 2000, though not in the same way, because that year of the accident and the war we fought together, we are allowed to legalise the capital of certain people who came out of Milosevic's horse, from its establishment and to work with them to take exactly the same positions and powers that Milosevic's ministers had. When it comes to the law of conversion, it's all nice, but we've missed years. We missed, from 5 October to 12 years ago, to apply the restitution law. We all know what the EU is asking of us. In 2000, the SPO also knew that when it spoke – bring the law on restitution, or knew it in 1992, when he and the DS passed the law on the return of property to churches and monasteries to KIM, so the law was passed in parliament and later returned by Slobodan Milosevic to the assembly procedure because he had the right to a suspension veto. Now we're in a situation where without the law on restitution, we need to pass a law on conversion. I keep saying, without system-solving problems, we can't solve any problems. We can't solve the problem, because this Serbia of ours has been so broken in the last two decades that it looks like one of the mechs whose skin has become so thin that it can barely hold water. If you patch up one hole, increase the pressure on another hole, and then without systemicly solving all the problems, without making Serbia on new foundations, completely different from the one we have now, I don't think we can move forward easily and quickly. When I look at what promises were made in 2008, 2010 by ministers, when it comes to the adoption of this law on the promotion of the construction industry in Serbia, I am quite disappointed that everything has come down to one big theater, one big mask and a big promise. That is why I believe that the last moment when it comes to any law, when it comes to this law, when it comes to the systematic arrangement of Serbia, is to start from a sound foundation, so that nothing else is built on the failed ruins of the bad and unfortunate 20 years past. Once again, this law has the justification to pass the extension of the validity of this law in that we cannot leave the objects unfinished and that the negligence of some previous ones can not be the model by which some future ones will behave, but we will not vote for this law because the negative effects of the past of this law are clearly out, because we have not seen in the past, the previous government has not brought us evidence in which the funds of these security funds have been spent, or which companies have received jobs even though domestic firms, or we have not received answers why these domestic firms, mainly, have not been paid what they did? So we ask ourselves - why is Serbia in this state? Until responsibility is taken, until we get a report from all previous ministers, not only from the past government, until we get a report from those ministers who are not amnesty, I hope that I ask people from the ruling political parties, or the most important political party in power that is not amnested by becoming part of the new ruling coalition, until they make an account before this parliament, before the citizens of Serbia, until we see how they worked, until we see what it is all of the past, which is bad in charge of Serbian citizens, Serbia cannot go into economic recovery. Once again, the fight for centralisation is not that the Belgrade office decides on 325 projects according to who has the political power on the ground. In Serbia, we face a very and perhaps most significant problem, which is the disappearance of Serbs in Serbia. If we don't deal with this, if we don't support real projects and make the right laws, there's no national, no spiritual, no biological recovery of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8000	You want to do business? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Gjuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8001	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating injuries to members 151 and 153. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today, we have a bill on the agenda that cannot be found on the agenda because it does not meet all the conditions laid down in the law and the Rules of Procedure for such a matter and therefore you have violated Article 151 or Article 153 because it was your duty to review the text of the law, in particular its reasoning, to return to the Government a bill amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. Why am I reacting now? Because what Minister Ilic was talking about actually confirms this remark. This law, first of all, does not have a part called – the financial resources needed to implement the law. Look carefully, it is said in the explanation – it is not necessary to provide financial resources from the budget to implement this law. It's nonsens. It is proposed to adopt a law that should provide concrete assistance, direct assistance that is, in any way, financial and budgetary. For the construction industry in 2013 – 2014, the promoter says there is no need to provide funds. This is in itself the reason why this law cannot be discussed before parliament today. The second thing, the law has no impact analysis. Indeed, it is an incredible, cynical, rude explanation of the promoter, that there is no need to specify and do any analysis of the effects, because the law only extends. That's why we need to do an impact analysis. Without this law in 2013 – 2014 would not go from budget to help the construction industry and would not be realised by these projects that Mr Ilic was talking about. This way, without basic analysis, without an estimate of financial resources, we are discussing the law, which is one of the main generators of corruption in this country. You know it well. The law on aid to the construction industry is one of the key generators of systemic corruption in Serbia and is indeed inadmissible. (President: Time. ) I call on you to follow the Rules of Procedure, to remove this bill from the agenda and to arrange it within 15 days, as the Rules of Procedure order.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8002	I believe that I did not violate that member of the Rules of Procedure, because in the law proposed, it is not necessary to provide funds for the implementation of this law because it refers to additional financial resources. The financial resources exist in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which we have voted in this House, and they are already predicting the funds that will be used for this purpose. As far as this unique methodological principle is concerned, I always agree that it should be as widespread and as best as possible to present everything that stands there and that it needs to be made possible by the MPs. I think that in that case, the government was guided by this principle and that it was concerned, that there was no need to provide additional financial resources for the implementation of this law. According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8003	Your explanation is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are precise, Article 151 paragraph 2. 4.) – an assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the regulations, including sources of security of those funds. That doesn't say it in an explanation. It is said that the implementation of this law does not require financial resources from the budget. So no means need to be provided. That's what the proposer of the law shows. It's not a condition. Another formal condition has not been met. In point 2 of the same attitude, which I have just quoted, among other things, is it required to answer the question – are the options considered to solve the problem without the regulation and the answer to the question, why is the adoption of regulations the best way to solve the problem? There's no reason for that answer to this law either. These are not optional terms or parts of the reasoning, these are mandatory parts of the reasoning by the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. You do what you want, he just tells you you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and you're breaking the law. This is no wonder, since this law is the most brutal violation of all rules of constitutional order, free competition, open market. They repeat once again -- the generator of systemic corruption in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8004	Thank you. Did you sign up as an authorised promoter? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8005	I just want to explain. I wouldn't agree if the funds weren't provided. You voted in the budget. I have this position in the budget for the ministry that I run and that has a percentage. One part pays for local self-government. Everything is divided into what it pays and the budget provides for positions to implement this law. No additional means are needed, but what you are here in parliament has been adopted is enough to make this happen. Secondly, I don't know what was going on, how who got the job, since you asked who shared it, etc. It's true that it's always an election year when more is built, works, invests. We can't attack some people, if they've done something in a town and they've reached a position and now it's interrupted, there's no further. We can't let that go to waste in the next 20 years. Imagine one stadium that's made up to half and that can't be used. You can't let the viewers go to the construction site, and it's happening now, or a sports hall that's done half and now it's snowing into it. We have to finish it, no matter who started it, no matter how someone got the job. I don't know if it was a tender, how, in what way, but the performer was working and he had to be paid. He's gonna sue someone tomorrow and he's gonna get slow and then he's gonna get paid out of the budget. So the preservation of these objects is more expensive than the end of these objects. It's a big project. We've got to get him to the end. Many cities expect, and many cities have invested their share in 100%. Local administrations have invested in their share 100%. Now we have to finish our part of the job. To repeat now that it was a tender, I don't know, I wasn't involved in it, but to finish it, we have to. Understand, you can't leave one sports hall to be a mockery of the city. You can't let the school be a mockery of the city without a roof, you can't leave it under the board, etc. Look, these are the jobs we have to finish, all of us and the position and opposition. It doesn't matter who started it. No government can end everything in its term of office. Something must be left for those who come. I don't want to worry about who's what, what, etcetera, there are stories. If we just deal with ourselves and say that all we do is corruption, then we'll just spin around and check on each other. That's not what I do, but to finish my facilities as a minister, that's what I have to do. That's what citizens of all Serbia are asking of me. And if she had won the second option, it would have had to end. Please support this, because the funds are provided. If something's wrong, have some services check it out. I'm not the kind of guy who checks it out, but the people who were in the field, all the situations that came in check, they're all done by project, and since whoever got the job, I don't know. All that came on the charge, two and a half billion, 100% done on the ground and 100% fine. I've ordered the departments to check it out. I can't attack a colleague before me right now, but it's done and it has to be paid. Don't let it be now. We helped the builders. In fact, we gave them money. They didn't charge, so they paid the VAT according to that old law, and now they're going bankrupt. That's why it's the government's decision that by New Year's Eve, everything has to pay off, because the companies we were supposed to help put them in a position to completely destroy, if we don't pay them, and if we don't cut their jobs in half, because they bought the material, invested, formed the site, set up the skeletons, equipment, etc. So this is something we have to finish. Of course, the opposition also serves to check. Here, if you think something's wrong, check it out, it's not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8006	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8007	That's the problem, Mr. Ilic, which is how you see it as an opposition's duty to do it, and then when it becomes power to deviate from that principle. I don't think I said anything different or different here than what you said when you were against this law and when you attacked the law a few years ago. Then, to the soul, he's from the position of the opposition. It's a problem in Serbia, then it comes to power, and it's always talking about how something has to end, how it can't be preserved, and how it's going to be more expensive than butter, so let's spend a few hundred million more. It's not a question of whether you're investigating or not. It's a light motive and a brand of your government, and it's a fierce fight against corruption, and then you suggest that the application of the law that's laid down corruption in its very essence, its nature. It's not a question, and there's no need for you to question whether there was a tender or not. This is a law that excludes tenders, excludes competition, excludes the possibility of achieving the most favourable price, the most favourable conditions. It's not a question of proof, it's not a question of violation of the Criminal Code or any other law. This law is so designed that it generates corruption in itself, prevents competition, protects monopolies to trigger cartel association. That's his problem, and that's why he's creating corruption. Don't, please, bring it down to the question that citizens are looking or citizens aren't looking. I haven't seen millions of Serbian citizens protesting every Saturday or Sunday and asking for their stadiums to be finished, otherwise they would have gone to watch fantastic Jelen Super League games. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8008	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8009	I'll speak as an authorised representative. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of laws on the agenda. I'll talk about two building plans, and my fellow MPs will talk about the others. These are basically two extremely important laws, but changes are important in only two members. The period of validity of the Law on aid to the construction industry is extended under the conditions of the economic crisis and this provision concerning conversion is extended. These are two laws concerning one of the most important sectors in our country. In the past few weeks, there has been a constant question of who should be talking about something. I've finally welcomed that we have laws on construction and that as a construction engineer I'm talking about my area. What is happening with us, and what has to be pointed out when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, which is that the first serious procedure was to amend the law, namely the adoption of a new Law on Planning and Construction in 2003, and then the law was passed in 2009, and the amendments went two years later. Every time they discussed the law of the ministers who proposed them, which was Mr. Šumarac and Mr. Dulic, they spoke with much ambition about these laws, and then all those problems that should have been solved by the adoption of those laws were getting worse and worse after the law was passed. I think the first serious mistake that was made in 2003 is the idea of being so important, so diverse, no matter what the area is, it's still a variety of things, they put into one law. I think it's caused a lot of problems. They are diverse by the structure and by the areas they solve, they are diverse by the bearers of these activities. You told us you were preparing a new law. We have proposed amendments, just to take a brief look at the Law on aiding the construction industry in times of crisis. According to us, the greatest aid to the building would be the abolition of the Law on Planning and Construction. If we're going to help our construction industry, then the current law needs to be put out of force. I had no information that you were preparing this law, but our amendment reads - by the law on aiding the construction industry ceases to apply the Law on Planning and Construction and the Government undertakes that within a deadline, we have proposed, 60 days, and you have said six months, to pass a new law. We think it is the greatest aid to our construction industry and it will help build in Serbia the most. Why do I think it's necessary to divide matter from that one law into several different laws? First, the law regulates the matter of planning and building. Planning refers to spatial and general urban plans. It's mostly government business and this job is done by the state. The private can't work out a city's general urban plan. The private can't work out a spatial plan, no areas, no states. It's government business. As such, the state's business should be governed by a special act and not burden this other matter. Building land is an extremely important area, regardless of those stories and lessons from the school where we learned that we are an extremely rich country that has absolutely everything in that Mendela system, that we have all kinds of wealth. I honestly believe that land is one of our most important resources. If so, then the land deserves a special law that will regulate the matter of that law. Mr. Dulic tried to turn specific cases and specific problems into legal solutions in the 2009 law. You will see a law in which one member of the law has two or three sides of individual cases. Legal matter and legal obligation is to regulate general matters. The third thing is the Construction Act. If you solve the question of land, if you solve the matter of planning, if the plans are made, then building is one specific area that implies certain conditions that will allow for building permits and that will regulate some of the basic things that are not technical matters, which are not the place in technical rules, but which will define the conditions that ensure the stability of the facility. It's an engineering chamber. Remember what you said when the laws were on the agenda? I'm thinking about the Engineering Chamber today. She's defined with only two or three members of the law. It is an extremely important institution, an institution, which absolutely does not help engineers, not only builders, but all engineers who participate in the design and implementation process. This chamber does nothing to help them, it arranges things as they please, to quote you from the debate several years ago – five, six people who rotate from one position to the other. That's right, since it's been formed, it's absolutely no concern for interests or professions or areas at all. An engineering chamber, like in most of the countries where it was formed, has a special law that regulates all the important things about the Chamber. The fifth law I think must be a special law is the Law on legalization of objects built without permission. I don't think it's right that the Law on Legalization, some wall facility for various reasons without a building permit, it shouldn't be found, it's a Lex Specialis, it shouldn't be found in matter with those laws, with parameters for whoever built it according to the law. Anyway, three major law changes in the last 10 years. With each of these changes, Serbia fell on those World Bank scales at the speed of obtaining permission. It was 150th place, and when the law was passed in 2003, Serbia fell to 171 places. When the 2009 Law was passed, it went from 171 to 176. When the change of law was passed in 2011, it fell from 176 to 181. How any change and how Serbia's ambition just falls on that scale. Your predecessor explained to us here that it's not really a problem with our procedures and our laws, these laws are ideal, these procedures are perfect, but the problem was that the World Bank actually has bad methodologies, so the World Bank is unable to measure it properly. Otherwise, we're probably world records. I'm sure we have important work to do, and it's my opinion that this matter should be divided into several important laws. Those problems aren't insecure. It is possible to pass good laws, predict much simpler and much cheaper procedures than they are today. This job can be done in the next few months. As for helping the construction industry, the law was passed in 2009. Although in 2008 a long-standing refusal was made to acknowledge the existence of a crisis at all. There were words that there is no crisis, that there is no crisis, that although it is some form, it will only help Serbia with all the advantages we have to solve the problem. In 2009, it was admitted that there was a crisis, so the law was passed. You're suggesting that the law be extended for another two years. That means there's something that's gonna take at least six years and it's called a crisis. One of my colleagues says that if something lasts for six years, then it's not the current situation, it's the regulatory conditions of business, so it's hard to call a crisis. We have an understanding of your proposal, for the simple reason why objects exist, and this law cannot be put out of force and leave many buildings unfinished, as it was in 2001 when our joint colleague, Mr. Mrkonjic, began with that Directorate for Reconstruction and Construction and left in numerous Serbian cities of construction sites and core caves which are also today full of water and collect frogs and frogs. That's not possible. You need to finish those facilities. We think the law should have been valid for a year, so if next year it turns out that these objects are still there, it should be extended for another year. Secondly, we think that, with the support of this law, it is necessary to provide a list of all the objects that have started under this law, and some of them may be finished, but let's see what this is all about and how much money has been spent so far, how much is paid and how much is left to pay. It would certainly help to look a little differently at the whole thing. Third thing, if we're talking about helping construction, we need to separate two things. When we talk about construction, there's something called high construction and there's something called low construction. If we essentially want to help build, then we need to help him strengthen in those sectors that bring the most profit, which are the most complex, which can also help us as an export branch with exits to the external markets and which can develop large companies. If we see it that way, then it's primarily about low construction, not about housing. The housing can't be exported, it's invaluable. There are no construction firms traveling around the world, participating in tenders and building housing facilities. It's a very simple thing. Everyone in the world knows how to pour concrete, everyone knows how to set up a window, it's now so advanced technologically, that people can easily dress to work. There are manuals for setting up parquets, there are manuals for setting ceramic tiles and it is not a worthwhile thing, but it is worth building business facilities and building low construction. We can remember together, you're a little older than me, at least 10 construction firms that brought more than a billion euros in foreign exchange inflows a year to this country. Only those 10 companies hired more workers than they did today's construction industry. The Energy Project was famous everywhere in the world. The Energy Project at one point had more representations in the world than the former Yugoslavia had an embassy around the world, more representations in more countries and more of its facilities in the world than the former Yugoslavia had diplomatic representations. It's a similar thing with Advanced, Ratko Mitrovica, Trubnik, Planum, Hydrotechnics, Gossom, Bridge Building. If we're going to help construction, then we need to help these firms, see what their biggest problem is, how to get a reference and how to get back to those markets that have been won. A month ago we were talking about Algeria, it's one of the possible chances of our exports. They can't, although they're involved in these projects, they're not any reference. On the one hand, we help our construction industry, with all the restrictions that exist and with all the restrictions that the SAA will impose with the inability to achieve benefits for the domestic economy, but for all the key buildings that are built in Serbia, with the restriction that they are under international credits, some other standards apply, but all the key real engineering projects and low-building work by foreign companies. Bridge to Fighter - Chinese. Bridge on Ada – Austrians. Roads – most foreign companies again. Our companies can only be subcontractors working for the bridge at Beska. Our companies work with significantly less resources, have no reference, can't appear anywhere abroad. When it comes to this law, the idea of helping our construction industry isn't an idea that we can't support, that idea as an idea is undeniable, but it's a question of how it helped. We do not have any financial elements on which to conclude, the number of employees has not increased, industrial production, construction transport remains practically the same, very few are walled, and when we say that the wall is being built, we should be aware that the wall is most walled in Belgrade and Novi Sad. The largest construction site in Serbia, primarily Belgrade, is the second construction site in Serbia, Novi Sad, and everything else is probably below 10%. Some time ago, we were discussing a National Credit Insurance Corporation program that 80 to 85% of all secured loans have these two cities. It's a picture of both Serbia and the image of our construction industry. We have an understanding why you proposed this law. We think you should cut his deadline from two to one year. We feel that we need to seriously consider whether new projects should apply or just to complete the projects. We find it extremely important to pass a new set of laws in the field of planning, construction that will significantly improve the conditions for beginning construction and construction. Such a set of laws will help our construction industry. The other thing, which is not just about your ministry, and you're in charge, is to see how our construction firms help out abroad. When we go abroad and talk about some jobs, when they ask you who can do it, you don't practically have a construction firm that can seriously build on low-building jobs, I think only the Uzice Roads work several airports in Russia but I'm not sure. There's a guarantee problem, there's a problem with working permits and everything else in those markets, and our construction firms can't do it without our country's help. There is no construction company in the world that successfully works abroad without the help of your country, if not something your mission is to do, so is that. You'll always have support and a co-worker in those things. We're not happy that these two laws in this form will remain valid, we don't think that's good, but we understand that you inherited it a few months ago, a condition that you can't get out of so easily. We can only talk about your results when enough time has passed and only what you started and you finished begins to produce results. These are all inherited things, so we should take them, and that's how we accept them. I say one more time, I expect a lot from you in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8010	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8011	I would agree with Mr. Obradovic, it is true that our companies have lost their licenses, it is true that we need to get it back, but we have good news. In this short period, the "Energoproject" was given for example. 56m euros in jobs in Serbia. The Energy Project has recently received 30% of its advances from that figure. The "Planum" received 78m euros in work, from which it received 30% of the advance. They have a lot of subcontractors, they'll get licenses back, they'll come back, they'll have a rating. It's all going slowly. We want to involve other companies in all of this. So the process that started must continue. It's true that Bridge lost all references, licenses and everything else, but we have to get it back. We used to be extremely good at building bridges, dams, "PIM" has to get back on his feet, etc. It's one process, it needs a lot of money. But through these investments, through the partnership of some countries outside to raise our domestics and then simply place them in both the world and the domestic market. It's a good process. I agree with the Engineering Chamber, it is extremely important and will now be an electoral assembly, very quickly, we need to set up people, they give licenses, they give approvals, they do a lot of work, and they just need their influence from the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, to feel it. That we all have one goal, which is to put certain industries on our feet and through these investments on the outside. In the other day he will come to you very soon and this contract with the Chinese, Obrenovac – Ljig, will include an extremely large number of domestic performers. It's a chance for new people to get funds. As minister, I took one position, nothing can be done without advances, building permits and certain documentation. I think that's a good thing and you should all support it. For the first time in travel and construction, at these working facilities, 61m euros in advance were given in one day, of which 30m euros were given to domestic companies, and 70% of the workers are working among foreigners, again domestic. So it's an infusion of construction and travel industry, and we have to support it. No financial structure can go, and what some MPs have criticised as going into all this cannot be entered into business without a closed financial structure. I totally agree with you, it's like, you go into the fog, so what happens to you. That was here. But we have to pay for it now, and we just have to get these people moving, raise them up and let them finish the job. They invested, bought the materials, stood on the construction site of the blanket, stood his plates, stood the sanitary room, couldn't be built in, was not paid, was blocked, we have to pay him first what he did, and then to finish the whole job, if we think we're gonna help him. It's true that there are some violations of the Constitution here, there were no tenders, and that's true, and the Public Procurement Act, which is likely to be evaluated, evaluated tomorrow, etc. But, you know what our people say - he's born, we have to rock him, we can't throw him in the snow now, it's not human. Everything we started has to be finished, no matter who started it. I'm not comfortable with it, I'm going to go to a town, and everyone's going to fight me there -- here, look how it rots, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's pouring water, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, but we've got to Some facilities have been discovered, and now the water's coming in, some buildings are ruined, discovered, there people have big problems. This government has to finish it as soon as possible. Just to finish the job no matter who started it. We can't have a patient if someone started treating him, the doctor isn't here, now die, no one to treat you, you don't care. Someone's got to keep doing it. Therefore, it is a problem, but I ask you to support us to finish this whole thing. It is in each of your cities and in Nis, in Kragujevac, in Kralje, in Čačka, in Užica, almost every city has such objects; we have to end it, somewhere in extraordinary locations in the city center. You can't fence that zone for a year now and stay away from it. We've started schools, there's kids playing, there's walls, there's skeletons, there's gonna be someone falling down, someone's gonna get hurt, etc. So, let's get this over with, and then, if someone wants to check something out, it's never too late, check whatever it is you're interested in. I agree that these laws may also need to be classified, and I suggest to you, I suggest to all of you, that all parliamentary groups be given, the law is now being done, that they give one representative to this working body that will form the law and propose it to the Government and Parliament. Come on, let's all get involved to make a good law and say, we've made a law that's really in the interest of all of us and the positions and the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8012	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8013	Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, the law on the promotion of construction is a very important and important law, first of all, because of the 100,000 people working in the area, who live off the wages they earn in construction and live in very difficult conditions. Sometimes I get surprised, now I've passed the bridge on Beška, I see they're working in this cold and this winter that's going on. True, they didn't work in the summer, I don't know why, probably because they weren't paid, but they're working today, and that's good. In this area, there are a lot of people working, but I want to say something else. I'd like the governments to remember what it was that ended, not who was prime minister of the government. I would very much like to remember the previous government, if it had ended Corridor 10, and the previous government of Corridor 10 has not finished. True, and Corridor 11, it's now being built, it'll probably be finished there who knows when, I just hope it won't be the same length as it was for Corridor 10. Also, we've just begun Corridor 11, we're starting construction of the highway from Novi Sad to Ruma and the tunnel through Fruska Gora. Be assured that I would much prefer and wish we had done one part of the job, to open another, and like this, we seem to be building the most just before the election. Otherwise, Serbia is divided into two parts, so-called real and virtual Serbia. Virtual Serbia, this is the first one I've told you, where everything is built, where all construction machines work very much, and then the second real Serbia, where in December of this month usually surprises snow and you don't have clear highways, where in the spring of the sudden flood we're always moving from the very beginning and I'm simply asking a question when we're going to finish something and leave it complete. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support these amendments and additions to the law, not with great satisfaction, but also because of those 100,000 people who work, because of those jobs that are not completed and which we expect will be completed in this period. That's why we're going to give support to this law and all the other laws that go. However, we are aware of the fact that the laws themselves will not solve the problems, but if there is no law, we will have many delays in many jobs. One of these things is this extorted move that we support to extend this law for the next two years, but to start at the same time with what has been announced here and what counterpart Obradovic said, which you ministers said, let's see how to regulate this area of construction, so that we no longer stumble over the many problems we have to start building, to get permits, to regulate the situation in this area. This is especially important, because we have an extremely strong and important construction industry. This building material industry is growing in its work, and it employs a very large number of people. I was approached a month ago by people from the "Ciglane" of the Sremski Karlovci, who said there was a great danger of losing their jobs, because construction materials don't go as they went, and there are 450 people who need to stay, that they have their jobs and that these jobs are the jobs they'll save so they can work for. In that respect, we do, and we will always stand on all those demands that will be reformable, because I don't see why we in a lot of laws in this assembly, the simple state we've been prolonging and all we're saying, it's because of a forced move, we have to extend this law, that law, and that's what I want to say. I expect you, Mr. Minister, to propose in your domain within six months of these laws that we have spoken of and to give them to a public debate, let the expert and scientific public say what they think about these laws, and then to know how to go forward. Of course, I'm sure that's where I'm saying you're going to include unions that are on the side of what we're saying, which is to keep jobs. We are otherwise inclined to pass laws that we often call reform laws and which, as a rule, always remove jobs. Serbia is still at the historic minimum of the number of employees, so if we continue to pass those laws that will abolish jobs, and few people, millions and 800 working in Serbia, so I ask the question where will we be? We're currently having a very big debate about what we're going to do with the chambers of commerce, it's said immediately, let's get rid of them, for the simple reason, because it's inherited from communism, so I'm asking the question where these people who worked here are going to find their new jobs and where the property of these chambers will go. Otherwise, we tend to look at in a lot of areas how to reduce the number of employees, and I don't see development programs opening new jobs. Where can we open them? Right in construction, if we can't build satellites, we know buildings, highways, we know how to build bridges. Of course, for many years we've had various tenders, competitions, projects where foreigners were given, and our people were subcontractors. You said yourself, 70% of people work just like subcontractors at construction firms. I ask the question where are these top experts we had building bridges, building towers, building buildings? Unfortunately, by bad policy, the construction industry has come to a very difficult situation, so these people who work in very difficult conditions must accept minimum wages to work in difficult conditions, to build what we have. I expect you, and I see it as a chance to develop Serbia, to create legal opportunities, to develop the construction industry, that we can have a lot more jobs than we have so far, and that's where the SDPS will provide full support, not only in the making of laws, but also in the separation of funds that will be directed into that area. If we don't allocate funds for the development of construction, for the development of agriculture, for the processing industry, I ask the question, where are we going to invest? Finally, let us finish these paths, and as Minister I ask you to engage all your capacities, that we have the opportunity to finally finish Corridor 10, Corridor 11, and I, as someone who lives in Srem, will be overjoyed, at least to start digging a tunnel in Fruszko Gora, because it will be a great opportunity to develop Srem and connect the New Sad, along with Sapac and Loznica, where there will be a new Serbia, and that is what we need. That's why we need to solve all these problems, and I ask the government and you as a resolute minister that we no longer adopt exorcised laws, but that you finally bring here into this House laws that have a developmental chance, which will be reformal, and that is the request we had when we entered the coalition with this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8014	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8015	I have to admit, as a parliamentary group we've been here for six or seven years, we thought nothing could surprise us, but these two proposals honestly surprised us. First, at first, one formal grudge and we'll refer it to everyone and please take us seriously. Serbia's biggest problem in the law-making process is the passing of laws by emergency procedure. I'm asking you personally as a man who's been in politics for a very long time, that you don't do that anymore. For all there is time, there is always two or three weeks more, that some law is passed, 99% of the problems that exist in this country because of some laws are due to that, the bad technical solutions and the political ones that we bring to our necks – on our noses. We get them on Friday, and Tuesday we vote them out. I ask you, it doesn't matter whether you're an opposition or a government, or whether we're an opposition or a government, you can always find two or three weeks for additional deadlines that both MPs and all interested can be able to look at these changes, compare with experts close to the parties, and thus make better amendments. But it's not about that urgency, we'll always repeat it. What amazes me is, in part, this debate that is being held in this assembly, above all about this Law on aid to the construction industry. I would understand that debate if this were what MPs are talking about, but it's not the subject of the completion of the facilities. The government came to us with a proposal for this law to be valid for another two years. That means, as the existing facilities end, that means making new ones, with all the disadvantages everyone's talking about. So we didn't get a draft law in which the government asked for money, understanding, and that, to finish the facilities you started under this law. We've received a proposal that this law applies for another two years. As things stand, at least politically, what we see on television, it's at least two or three more election cycles at different levels. For example, Vozdovac and Zemun, possibly Belgrade, and what becomes more secure every day, the republican elections. So, another election cycle under the law, which no one exists, except for that proposer of his three or four years ago, who thinks the law is good. So, I simply appeal this time, withdraw from the legal procedure and suggest what you have told us you would suggest. Then we'll be able to discuss it and agree with the fact that objects can't stay unfinished, that, I don't know, sneezing, poor kids in the snow are playing, it's crowning. This law is not about that. The changes and additions that the Government has proposed require of us, the MPs of this Parliament, to suspend public procurement, the market in the construction industry, to introduce arbitration, the generator of corruption, as it is said, which is not just us, you said today, the largest parliamentary group in the Assembly, all who deal with the assessment of transparency, or the fight against corruption, and not the state authorities and state authorities. So this government has not proposed any completion of any facilities. So, the law says - number 212, changes in number 2012-2014, which means that all the provisions of this law remain valid, which means we can talk more precisely about it, that it is possible to continue through the form of assistance, the false course, the construction industry, it is possible to launch funding of any object where it wants anyone from power, without tendering, without saving that enables public competition in offers, without any control at the end and all with waiting, since we will again find ourselves in a situation where we don't leak objects start and stadiums in front of which the people call. You come to us again in two years, and you're asked to do the same thing, to extend two more years, to say one complete lack of authority. You yourself said at first, in the first sentence, that the law did not help the construction industry, that's what the facts are about. I don't know if it's just because of that law, there are probably other controversial factors, but they're contrary to all the other laws in this country, it's contrary to the Public Procurement Act, which you've submitted as MPs who will arrive in this House in seven days' time. This law on the incentive of the construction industry is contrary to that. I understand your political need for your entire ruling coalition to turn out fair, fighting corruption, arresting tycoons, one general state of madness in exorcising justice, but essentially, you're doing everything the same as the previous government. Everything that you've accused the previous government of, it's all the same. So, simply, today you were asked by an organization, which warned you that the Constitutional Court had asked this Assembly, on November 11, 2010, a statement on the assessment of the constitutionality of this law. Today, I don't know which, some December 2012, means two years, the Assembly hasn't responded. Your government, instead of responding to that constitutional court request and helping the Constitutional Court determine whether this whole bill is unconstitutional, which we all know it is, because it abolishes the basics guaranteed by the Constitution, such as the freedom of the market, the right to competition, and everything else. You're coming instead and you're proposing the law that this law applies for another two years. It doesn't always depend on the good will of the minister, and that time has taught us. So what you're saying today is that you're not going to use this law and that it's just for things to end, the ones that were bad, it just doesn't have to mean that it is. This law is being debated from today, he goes far from the eyes of the public and you as minister, as a ministry, your colleagues in the government, you have a lot of legal right to act under this law. That, if someone will catch you, discover, that, as I say, is a thing like you said to some other authorities yourself, but today we are discussing what is the obligation of this assembly to discuss. So, absolutely everyone who has doubts about this law must be against this law, because this is not about any completion of objects, but about the law being extended, its duration, not a year, but two. So, by the end of 2014, which means every pre-election lie that the citizens saw on TV, which all my colleagues talked about, and the possibility of a new lie on television, opening bridges, building schools, starting building buildings, everything, takes another two years. That's the point. No children, where the frost crowns for concrete, none of it's here. If you wanted to, you could have written proposals to finish all the objects and by this law you can't get into new projects, but it doesn't say that. It is very simple, it is not even possible to make a mistake – the word 2012, is replaced by the word 2014. So there are no other papers. So, simply, what I'm saying is, one of the topics that is being implemented in our political life, which is that principle fight or some kind of fight against corruption, which is being preached by the ruling coalition, which, I say, is somewhere safe and in some first step good, at least that's what we're talking about, we haven't even talked about before. But that there is a systemic solution to this law is one of the key evidence of that. You are also free of the law on public procurement, if you exempt all these facilities, 350 – 400, which the minister spoke of at the beginning of his presentation, you are free. This means amnesty for all those who have illegally participated in this over the past two or three years, as far as this law applies. Police will arrive at something to determine, something will not, but the essence of corruption, the possibility of arbitration among politicians, in political functions, has been cemented for the next two years. That's why we can now listen to promises, that something will change, that this will work, or it won't work, it's getting less and less important. The point is, this is what we said. As for this other law, the Law on Planning and Construction, it is there to say the most amazing explanation, especially that one mistake was being robbed, which is that in that explanation, one of these two laws, it says that the result was given and that there was a slight growth of the construction industry, and you said the exact opposite. But, come on, it's a trivia, we're not gonna talk about it. But what is a unique opinion is that this past law was bad. But he was also a system law, a huge system law. Now, without, how can I say, any public debate, you've stated that you've consulted some, I trust you, but that's not enough. You remove one-fifth of a member and tell us that's the thing that will unblock all blocked processes in the construction industry. I'm sorry, I'm sure that's not the case. This law has, as you have spoken and we have spoken, and most of our colleagues sitting here today, a lot of bad things. What has been the problem so far to make more serious changes to this law? So, he's totally amazing, it's the law, I agree, with more or less, to all predecessors, he, I can't say destroyed, destroyed the world's economic crisis and lack of money, but he somehow finished the construction industry. This implementation of the fact that the state in its own way, because I guess these owners of these constructions, from small to large, anyway, who fail to manage in this time, but the state when it helps them with these laws, then everything will flourish and all the state will build. And where did the state money come from? What's the state doing? Where did she get the money? Why would the state build anything in times of crisis to save construction work? That means it'll destroy, I don't know, 100,000 pensioners. We can speak that language. Of course everyone, that analysis of every effect, might be positive and negative, the problem here is that there is no analysis. So, out of 150 members of the Law of Planning and Construction, we're removing one sentence from one member. Do we know what effect that sentence will have? There's no explanation for that. What's gonna happen? One thing's for sure is that you won't have to make any more conversions to get a building permit, a building permit. That must be one of the consequences. And what if in 12 months you don't change the law? Everything can happen in Serbia. What if there isn't a new law, because then what someone built on these changes and supplements in the last 12 months collapses? It's just that we have to predict all things. One thing is the wishes of the ruling majority. Our experience teaches us, especially in this ruling majority, that desires differ far from what is reality and what really happens. So we simply don't agree to change one bad law by throwing out one sentence, without any public debate, without any serious belief that only one sentence will be enough to unblock everything that has been blocked for years. I just don't believe it. We were against conversion as such when it was debated. This law doesn't even end the conversion. He's kind of weirdly unthinking. He now says you don't need that paper, so you can pick up where you left off, build or get the right to build, and we'll change the law in 12 months, but he doesn't say what happens if the law doesn't change in 12 months. You know, we live in a time where it's possible for elections to happen after the holidays, that the whole state is standing for a few months again, that we're waiting for a new government to choose again for a few months, and then again, in a few months, a new government with some new idea of passing a law on planning and building. What are these investors going to do at that point? To take the mallets and tear down what they built, trusting us, looking at us here? No, he won't, and you know it well. This change won't change anything. No one will seriously invest money based on changes to a single sentence in a 150-member law and I don't know how many dozens of sides. This is nothing. This is a television show. We'll all be here to talk about how we take care of the poor construction workers, about how the whole previous government brought down the state. I see that's what the previous members of this government say now. We all agree on that. So we're not going to establish any responsibility, no political, no political responsibility, we're just going to blame the previous government, and we're going to make some false changes that everyone here knows won't make any change. Who is ready to invest a million, two, five, ten or 50m euros on the basis of these changes and the addition of the Construction Act, in which even in one certain way, economically does what is totally unacceptable, and that is to say that the law will be changed and not said how? So we've introduced another additional dose of confusion, confusion, a completely unsettled state and chaos that's probably been in this country since it existed. The passing of these two laws is not a step closer to solving the problem. We're deeply certain of that. They're a step away from solving the problem. Instead of systemic debates, serious debates, we get this on two papers - the number 2012 changes in 2014, in Article 105 paragraph 4 of paragraph 4 crosses and no longer applies, and now the construction industry will flourish. It's just that it's not true. The previous debts have been made, in that part you have our understanding. Of course you need to finish the things you're starting, but suggest it, and then you'll get support for it. This is how you open the door to yourself that, looking at the previous government, you're doing what she did. So much for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8016	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8017	We analyzed it. The work that is under way must be paid now and these are huge funds. So everything that's been done hasn't been paid. It can't be over in one year and paid. We've been thinking and doing an analysis of whether we can do it in one year, but we can't handle it. It's got to be a part of it in 2014 as well. I promise you one thing now. New jobs under this law won't start while I'm a minister, but they have to end the existing one. So, don't worry about whether it will be, I promised, I said, and that was a condition, to finish what was started. Of course, once the new law on public procurement is passed, everything will go according to law. There is no dilemma that anyone can break and use this law. This law will serve to end what has been done and to pay what has been done, which we must do as a serious government and do. The second thing, about conversion, simply in the winter period, according to a law that is valid, is that no one can enter into the process of obtaining a building permit that lasts several months, to prepare documentation, to do projects, to file a request, etc. Now we have made it possible for these preparations to be made, to obtain certain papers, so that the beginning of the construction season could be started. The whole Planning and Construction Act is one system law that takes time. He's been working and doing the biggest experts in this country. If you know any more, we'll include them, but that law takes at least six months to work and get in the process. We promised he'd come to parliament in six months and he'd be here safely in front of you in six months, but until then, we can't stop. So whoever doesn't pay for the conversion can't do anything. He can't get a single piece of paper, he can't apply for permission and he can't do projects, he can't do anything. So we made it possible for everything to be done. My proposal was and I think I'm going to get 100% support for everyone to shut down, because they're just all for it. I haven't met another institution in both the country and the world that says it's normal to stay. We can't get out of the whole system and the banks and everything, but we couldn't do it this way, but we delayed it. So you're not paying for anything. You are entering the procedure of preparing paperwork until there is a law that will then eliminate and regulate it in a different way. Of course, that takes time. The people who do this said they needed six months to get it over with, and through public debates and everything else. Here, we give them a six-month chance, and I hope after that we get here. The builders and the Chamber of Commerce have been asking for two years, the American Chamber of Commerce. They've all asked for at least two, three years or for it to be completely abolished, but we can't abolish it as one member, but we can change the law as a new law. It's impossible to tolerate anymore. If you do an urban plan for an area, make a detailed urban plan for one city and now anyone who builds in that segment that is defined through the urban plan must especially draw out all the permits that have been shared. No one in the world will accept that as normal. Everyone says that if you got all the papers for e.g. One industrial zone, you don't have to pull every piece of paper now for every hall. So you have a whole zone and then you go to one counter and you get to fit into that zone and you get a building permit. So that's something we have to introduce. This law is a serious law and one revolution in Serbian construction would not be the third from behind of all the countries in the world. Just what we're doing right now, we should jump on the list, for example. At least 100 seats in advance, because we blocked ourselves. We've introduced a concept that no one recognizes. Watch out for the only important thing. If a serious investor comes outside and he has his own bank to track him. He should pay for the conversion, for example, six million euros. He goes to the bank and asks for money. They say he can't, because that term doesn't exist. So he's got to pay for something he's gonna do, but it doesn't exist, and the bank doesn't recognize that he can afford it. So, all they can do is make drug dealers, some tycoons that have cash, and they can come up with money. No one else. Regular construction can't be done. Do you understand? That's very important. That's why the law needs to change and we need to change it, if we think we're building and doing what we do in the world. We need time and I'm glad there are people here who want to, I invite everyone to be in that task force to help. I'd be happy to have all the political options in this House sit together and do one good thing, let's say we've made one law that will be valid for the next 50 years. To define Serbian construction and to put it into order of world or European construction, and this way we can't go anywhere. We're somewhere in a corner that some of our internal laws that only we understand. We sell something to the Buddha why, and then when we're attacked by the public, we say we'll pass the conversion law and we'll iron it through conversion and it'll be all right. Now everybody tells us -- people, are you normal, if you sell something to a stranger, you sold it to him, and you can't say that you pay for this, even this, and in the end, a lot of people give up on these jobs. It's not gonna happen. Nice to meet you, and I accept your criticism. It's true that there are reasons for criticism, but this is something that had to be done preventively and I repeat, this is about helping construction, which means we're not going to go into new projects this way, but we have to finish the existing ones. Some projects are megalomaniac. That's a total of 20 billion. It's not a billion or two. It's over 20 billion in total. You know how it was regulated, etc., but those funds that existed were coming from the ministry's own incomes, and now their own revenues go directly to the budget and we don't have that fund anymore. So we've got to get it over with somehow, and that's what we're gonna do, and that's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8018	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Ivan Andric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8019	And without your approval, of course we know we're right about this. Allow only two objections. The first is on this law on incentives for the construction industry. You take it down to one level of some personal trust. I'm a man and maybe our generations are different, our political parties certainly, I don't think we have the right to do that. It's not working here whether we trust you or someone else trusts us or we all believe in someone together. Time is like that, and business is like that, you have to watch what's being adopted. What you said, maybe you believe that too, I have no reason to dispute you personally any more or less, it's not even the subject of this debate. What's the problem is that it's a matter of your or our trust, the trust of the opposition. This government, if it has shown anything since its formation today, is that no pre-election promise has been fulfilled so far. So, the stores we look at things from are different. Time will tell. We know we're right. You didn't propose to complete the facilities, not you personally, but you as a government, but you suggested that the law be extended for another two years. As far as the Construction Planning Act is concerned, we agree with what you said. I remember we discussed more or less the same thing. You know how, I don't believe that a serious investor will be changed enough to invest his money here, especially if he doesn't know what's going on in front of him. You say he will. I'll see you in six months. I'm telling you, we're not going to jump to 100 seats, this country is not going to become a paradise based on this one change. To use the language you said, if he was born he could swing it, I tell you another saying that the coat of arms is born time does not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8020	The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8021	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Minister, today I will criticise the government. Mrs. Kovac, I hope you won't take my word right away. Dear Ministers, before I refer to your laws that are in the process, above all the law on conversion, I would like to remind the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia of what I said on July 26th 2012. I read a stenogram – whether it is Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ilic or Mr. Bačević or Mr. Bačević's only request to abolish the Land Conversion Regulation so he can allow Milan Beko not to pay 120m euros for the conversion of Luke Belgrade. President of the Assembly of Interrupts – I ask the speaker not to use insinuations that offend the dignity of the people who are members of this House or who are future ministers. What did I hurt myself with? He says – you made your claims that some of the future ministers...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8022	Mr. Radakovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8023	This is the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8024	It's not a theme. Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8025	I'm talking about land conversion -- you've listed your claims that some of the future ministers intend to do something that doesn't comply with the law. My answer is - and they were alive to see it. Within six months, a land conversion regulation will be lifted. After five months, the regulation is repealed. I'm asking Mr. Stefanovic who came out of the O.R. when I checked in, to return to the O.R., to tell me when he's going to file criminal charges, in fact when he's going to condemn all the ministers in the government, as he condemned Oliver Dulic and Nenada Chanka?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8026	Mr. Radakovic, come back on the subject, second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8027	Since the law has arrived in parliament, I can talk about it and you will now take away my word. This land removal law is abolished to allow five tycoons to legalise what they bought through privatisation. I was here, if it hadn't been for Mr. Andric, I thought I was the only member of the opposition party, since everyone else was willing to accept the suspension of land conversion. I'm not gonna slow down the DSS gentlemen who made it possible for Milan Beck to buy Luka Belgrade for 500m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8028	Mr. Radakovic, I give you a warning. Keep talking about the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8029	Thank you. So, two billion euros today you took away the citizens of Belgrade by abolishing this. To pass it on to your language that you understand, it is five bridges on Adi at Vucic's price of the bridge, it is a thousand euros in action for every Belgrade citizen that Mladjan Dinkic lied about in the campaign, it is the next five generations of students in Serbia to go to free schools and those who are on the budget and those who are not. Two billion euros for who? I'm not just gonna mention Milan Beck. I also want to mention Vojin Lazarevic, the Karaburma combination sport, I want to mention Bogoljub Karic, the Terrace terrace...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8030	Mr. Radakovic, please come back on the subject one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8031	I'm in the dark, you won't stop me...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8032	You're not on the subject, please, get back to the agenda, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8033	You won't stop me from saying what's true, which is that this law was made to allow tycoons to take the land. What foreign investments are you talking about, Mr. Ilic? We're talking about foreign investment, they're all privatizing companies. For example, I'll take Luke Belgrade, why is it privatized? To do the port's work, not to build two and a half million squares of apartment. That's true. If this has already been done in which I agree, to encourage the construction industry, let it pay 25% of the price on that territory of the city of Belgrade. Not that he's given for free. We are talking about Miskovic, the arrest of Miskovic, the man has been accused of "Deal Real", means he did not want to pay for the conversion of the city of Belgrade in the name of the land quantum. If he hadn't returned it two days ago to the city of Belgrade, he'd have got it for free. Under the new law you're passing today, he'll get free to build a mall on Auto Command. Is that a fight against corruption? You accused Oliver Dulic of unlawfully allowing a third party 20,000 euros in benefits. You here today allow five tycoons to take two billion euros and not give it to the citizens of Belgrade. Only for Luka Belgrade 120 million. I want to say this for the citizens of Belgrade and, of course, Serbia. Let me tell you right now, I have nothing against these people who are tycoons, who bought these companies. I just want them to pay for what they have to pay for. Is this the debt you have for Milan Beck? We know where Milan Beko was and who he visited while sitting on the Styrofoam and strike hunger. The fight against corruption starts from here. You say, Mr. Minister, this is a corrupt law passed by the government. This law proposed DS, yes, adopted by your coalition partners, yes. Today, the SNS abolishes the Law on Land Conversion and other coalition partners vote for it. You're talking about the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, a fellow Yugoslav, rejected the initiative you proposed to abolish land conversion on 26 September 2012. And you're talking today about how it's corruption. If our Constitutional Court is corrupt, then I don't know what we're talking about here, then we don't exist. I'll say more. You can tell me all the warnings you want. I'll wait here until Mr. Stefanovic gets here to tell me when he'll be...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8034	Are you threatening me, Mr. Radakovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8035	I'm not threatening, I'm waiting here, just like Toma was waiting on the Styrofoam. I will wait here for Mr Stefanovic to ask him when he will file criminal charges and whether he will be one of those who will vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8036	Thank you. To inform you, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not at the session because he is at a meeting with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Peter Necas, to discuss the Eurointegration of the Republic of Serbia and further economic and bilateral co-operation with the Czech Republic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was reported by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8037	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the most brutal violation of several members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but even more frantic, Article 103. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from the chairman of this session. Ma'am, you've violated Article 109. First, you did not explain why you gave the warning to Mr. Janko Radakovic. If you are indisposed to follow the session of the Assembly, if you have a problem reading the agenda or material that is spoken of here, if you do not know how to prepare for the session, leave the presidency to someone who is up to the job. If this is how you want to run the assembly sessions, I will personally file a criminal report against you for mobbing. This is a classic assembly of MPs, and I'm going to ask you not to chair the National Assembly sessions, because there's a danger of you repeating the crime. Here you, Madam Chairman, are violating the basic constitutional right of the MP not to suffer sanctions for what he is talking about, and he is talking about the agenda. With these flagrant attempts to protect the tycoons, you place yourself in the same plane with them. You're no longer our colleague, but you're someone who's repressive trying to support flagrant corruption and give her an open hand of co-operation. I must indeed turn to the court and seek the protection of the MPs for the mobbing they are exposed to at the meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8038	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. You said I hurt Article 109 because I didn't explain to the MP why I gave him the warning. Article 109 does not mean anywhere that I should explain to the MP, especially because I told Mr. Radakovic why I gave him the warning. That's because after two warnings he continued to talk outside the agenda theme. Mr. Milivojevic, I didn't give you my word to re-advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. All you can say is whether you're asking to take a vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote, when you get your word. Are any of the other applicants looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8039	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 106. So the speaker can only talk about the subject of the agenda. By giving a warning, because the speaker did not speak on the agenda, you have partially satisfied, I hope, most MPs. So the topic was not 1,000 euros, nor anyone's promises. Only by the way, I can say that maybe that 1,000-euro promise would have been met if the previous president had allowed 200,000 new jobs to open, as he promised, not that 400 000 people had lost their jobs in the same period. All that the president of our party has done during his political arrangement will be ready to meet both personally and politically...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8040	Mrs. Savelic, just an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8041	I explained. Article 106, speakers are required to speak exclusively of the subject. What DS representatives were talking about is really not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8042	Thank you. Who else is reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Jovan Palalic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8043	Article 107, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The speaker told a harsh lie that the DSS was selling someone something. For four years, we have listened to the most brutal accusations and attempts to criminalise the DSS and we will never forget them. They didn't prove any of it. They've been accusing us of all kinds of things. Now they're accusing us of some kind of sales I don't know who. Just to remind you, those who are now mentioning were involved in the creation of the government in 2008, led by the DS, just to prevent the government from forming the DSS. So, what's this about? Who was there to support whom? The same ones who made that government did everything they could to keep the DSS out of power. There are harsh lies here. Please keep in mind when accusing people and political parties in this way and in the far line, to tell the truth, who was there to support and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8044	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. As you've seen, I've tried to maintain order. However, I even received a warning that I broke the Constitution by giving a warning to Mr. Radakovic, which I believe is false. I ask the MPs to tell me who's next to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. MP Bojan Đuric. (Alexander Jugovic, from the post: I answered. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8045	If Mr. Jugovic thinks he picked up before me, I don't mind. It wouldn't be a problem if you broke the Constitution. That's what you do all day in this session. The bill itself on aiding the construction industry is obviously counter-constitutional, but let's not get into it now. I think you've hurt the members of 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm not going into this debate at all about whether the conversion is good or not. How much populism we will later discuss with the parties, but do not allow the discussion of how the 1,000-euro promise of free action would result in the opening of 200,000 jobs, as the law on which the division of actions that will one day be worth 1000 euros will not have anything to do with the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, but has to do with the sale price that will be achieved in the privatisation process of several major state-owned companies. Please do not turn this parliament into a circus again as we discuss a law that allows for the potential corrupting of the amount that Minister Ilic estimated to be about 20 billion dinars or 200m euros, half of NIS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8046	Thank you. You noticed that I warned the MP the moment she spoke about what you were talking about, that it wasn't the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8047	I see you have a great sympathy for me, since even when the first one comes, you always call me last to say the word. Article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, and I can answer the line because in a way that is not in line with the truth, it's interpreted...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8048	Mr. Jugovic, since the 107th member has already been advertised, and I can take away your time as a parliamentary group, if you continue. It's my duty, it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8049	You got it. So the previous speaker from DS, Janko Radakovic, interpreted my presentation in a way that was not in line with the truth. I mentioned the Constitutional Court in the context of the Law on Encouragement of Construction Industry Development due to the negative effects of the global economic crisis, rather than the Law on Conversion. I think you were obliged to warn him, because the dignity of the National Assembly requires when someone mentions or calls on the attitudes spoken by one of the MPs who spoke before him to be in harmony with the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8050	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8051	Madam Chairman, I will advertise the violation of Rules 106 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure. Do not threaten DS lawmakers, because if you think that we within the agenda and agenda points cannot quote what someone said about this same law two years ago, or you do not know the essence of DS or this Rules of Procedure or parliamentary work. And how we're going to talk and quote stenographic notes, all in the context of the subject, what someone was saying about the Law on Conversion, what someone was saying about the Law on Planning and Construction. We'll spend all day doing that, if we have to, because that's our interpretation of this law. Don't try to protect the ruling majority in this way, it's not good for you, not for parliamentary work, not for parliamentary democracy. After all, it's not good for anyone in this room. I'd like to discuss the laws here. Mr. Ilic has come to discuss the laws, not the violations of the Rules of Procedure. So don't run a session like this, it's not good for the state or for parliamentary democracy or for the whole system. It's good to build the system's institutions, but don't try to silence the DS with repression. It was not worth it to anyone on the political scene of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8052	I don't think I've hurt Article 106. Rules of Procedure. If you've realized that I've threatened anyone, it's your interpretation. Of course, in the voting day, you can ask us to plead the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Radakovic, if you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should sign in. That's basic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8053	Mrs. Kovac, you've broken an article. 27, 103, 107 and 109...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8054	As I recall, all those members were already advertised. If you want to continue, I will take your time from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8055	I never advertised them, Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8056	What? You're not yourself, but other MPs have done it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8057	If you don't know how to hold a session, go to a meeting with the Czech Prime Minister and let someone else chair, if you don't know how to hold a session. Let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8059	Mrs. Kovac, you can take my word and get me out of the session, but the truth will come out. The truth is, you're making a conversion to shut down and let five tycoons get free land. That's true. You can take away my word...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8060	Mr. Radakovic, you have the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8061	So, I have a right, and, you know, I'm authorized in front of my group, so we're still going to fight you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8062	Are you threatening me, Mr. Radakovic? The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I would like the previous speaker to answer a few questions before he starts asking his own questions, which is, during whose time and time have the authorities produced and enriched your tycoons? During whose authorities bought land from the City of Belgrade? So, first of all, you know that the greatest wealth was acquired, just as the DS was in power. There's a problem. Now, apparently... (Chairman: Mr. Arsic, I am obliged to ask you if you have answered the line? Yes, I answered the line. He spoke falsely and uglyly about several ambassadors from the SNS parliamentary group. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when it comes to filing criminal charges, neither Aleksandar Vukic submits criminal charges, nor does Nebojsa Stefanovic. They can do it as citizens, but they can't do it as presidents of the Parliament or vice president of the government. Gentlemen of the DS, you've had a chance in the past five years to deal with the tycoons and not only have you not counted, but they've become more powerful and richer than they were before you came to power. You missed your chance. We won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8064	Thank you. Mr. Milivoevich, on what grounds? Did you want a word, since I have you in the system? No, I don't. ) Disengage after you have been reported. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8065	I find it very ugly that, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we left the topic that is on the agenda today and we start talking about what happened, whose tycoons are the ones who are changing the law and who are changing certain members of the law. Those tycoons weren't made I don't know where they were made here. Those tycoons you're talking about have been sitting next to your president for years. Those tycoons came out and made a government. That's your problem. You had some obligations to them, so you got into a fight and you got to court and you're on trial. We don't care about that. Serbia cannot wait for your dispute to end. You'll be judging them for a long time. It's a cracked pumpkin. We have to work, we have to live and build. You, gentlemen, who exercise power in Belgrade, will have the permits, not me. You'll give them permission. If you give them permission, they will build. They've been your patients for years, not mine. So, Mr. Miskovica, I've been here 100 times and I've talked to you about it -- tap the handcuff a little bit, don't take it all, it can't. You said yes, so you gave him roads and everything... (President: Minister Ilic, please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... And the aivo-industry, you wanted to give him everything, and JAT, what you didn't want, so we braked as much as possible. But that's your business, that's what you do. We want to work and build in Serbia. Some law that no one in the world has, and neither can we, because we are part of that world. So, don't, please, let's discuss it. That's what you discuss when you find yourself, tell that story, and we'll talk here. Criticize, it's your right, if you have anything to criticise. Remember, I'm not talking about you right now, I'm not criticizing you, and I'm not saying that corruption was that you shared jobs in your cities, your performers. Take who your performers were, gentlemen. How much do your contractors owe to the state? One of your leading performers today owes 30m euros, submerged Serbia's economy, not to say that there are dozens of commitments to the state they owed. That's what you guys do. We don't do that. We want companies here that were spoken of, congratulating Serbians, to stand on their feet, and that's what we do. To whom you will give permission in Belgrade, you decide. How? And that's what you decide. You've been with them for years. I don't know how many years you've been in charge here? No one bothered you. Investments stopped in Belgrade. What was one conversion done for your entire mandate? I don't know, ask. So you broke a pumpkin and got into a fight. What's the problem now? You solve that problem. We have to move on, investors are asking to move on. Why don't you let the federal SUP do it for years? What's the problem? The Israeli firm comes here a hundred times tossing the thresholds around the government. They bought the locations, they can't build. They ask us, "Why can't they build?" And you know what they can't build, not me. Why don't you give them permission for five years? Why are you embarrassing us in front of the world? Their governments are coming, ministers are intervening and asking -- is it possible for someone to invest 50m euros in two locations in Belgrade and that they cannot get paper for five years to start building? What did you give them the location? I didn't give it to them, you gave it to them. So, work it out, work it out at the city level. Solve and do something, because it's all stopped. It's not working. So, don't fight around here now who it is, who it is. We want to create a building environment here. We have two steps to change the law. First, to enable documentation, to allow it to start working and investors not to leave. In six months, the entire law will create an environment for one construction and investment. Help, if you will, if you won't, you don't have to. There is an MP here who will understand and help. If this gets most of it, it'll pass. If he doesn't, he'll stay the way he is. Don't affect any other MPs. You have your opinion. Everyone has an opinion. I criticized these laws because I knew what would come of it. Now I'm here, and I have to work this out. Therefore, this government struggles, as much as it can, to get everything in order. This government doesn't have any revenge for anyone. This government doesn't touch anyone who's worked in accordance with the law, regulations, and that's how it's gonna be. So we create an ambience to build and work, not just argue and argue about what who did. I respect you and I greatly appreciate you. When I was an opposition, I criticized you, but I respected you. I respected your authority. I've never said anything that's not true. I wish you'd listened to me. I took everything that's going on out of this place. If you had listened to me, if Miskovic had listened, if Mr Dulic had listened to me when I said, there would have been no problem, but you wouldn't have listened and now go on. No problem. So, please, let's go back to these changes to the law and see if you're up for it. We want to finish what you started. I didn't attack you giving a job to whoever you were giving it to, that's what you say. I want to finish what you started properly, because it's our duty. I think it's a good thing you started it. As you started, it doesn't matter, but it's a good thing it was built and worked in Serbia. Whatever you've been doing and building, it's good. Now let certain, if there are any irregularities, check. You've started a lot, but you haven't covered financially. Now we have to cover it and pay. I'm very sorry to have to do this, but we have to be a serious state. What you started, we have to finish. The next government will finish what we start. You've finished the Beshko bridge that I started. You've completed many of my projects that I've started and thank you for that. You haven't stopped any of the projects, and that's good. I won't stop any of your projects. I think everyone's good. Let's do something, however, never mind. You did as you knew, someone else appreciates it. This country had you, and now it has us. Maybe they'll have another, third, maybe the people choose. That's the point of the choice. We can't stop and say, "They started this." I remember one big Europol project started, so everyone was disgusted by it. When we analyze it today, it was a great project. Never mind who started it, good project. So, everything you started, I'm gonna end up like I started, and you're all mine. You've criticized me, it's everything, but you've done everything and led to the end or to the end. That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8066	The word is Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8067	Thank you, Madam Vice President. They've been injured. 106th and 116th. A few days ago, the president told me in one of his answers that he had asked his MPs for something. That's when we realized that the president of the assembly had MPs. Now we see that you have your own MPs. The Rules of Procedure also apply to Mr Ilic. You will ask some participants to return to the agenda after they have said everything they have said, and some of the other participants in the debate will give a warning before they say what they intended to say, and that does not release you from responsibility for applying the Rules of Procedure selectively. Mr. Ilic spoke here for eight or nine minutes about something that is not the subject of the agenda. I would prefer to hear more from him today that it is possible that the law on aid to the construction industry, which for him two years ago was the introduction to corruption, against the Constitution, the black day for the construction industry, the marketing trick that abolished the law on public procurement, is now becoming so good that the only changes that it brings into it are to extend the validity of this law. The only thing he remains consistent with is that he still thinks it's okay to steal, but it's not right to steal. We could hear it from him now, but I'd rather talk about what the MPs have to ask him, not talk about whatever he wants, and the only thing you do is ask him to get back on the agenda. They were doing the same thing with a member of the URS who was the same after she said everything she had been asked to return to the agenda topic. Please apply the Rules of Procedure equally to everything because we cannot agree that we are different and that we are not in an equal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8068	You noticed I warned Mr. Ilic. The statement of the notice in accordance with Article 109 shall refer only to the Members of Parliament. The pronunciation, as such, is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. I think if we ask a member of the government, they'll respect me. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8069	I'm sorry, but in one of the last sentences, you have injured several members of the Rules of Procedure, including Article 27 and Article 116. It is absolutely not true that there are different arches, different measures for MPs and other participants in the debate. This is not true or you are starting to assume that the ministers who come here are wonderful, noble and well-trained people who are enough to warn and thus calm your conscience, and that MPs are some impossible people who constantly violate the Rules of Procedure, so they have to apply much more seriously, more severe sanctions, warnings. That's not true. In the same way that you can reprove, punish, bring in the intentions of the MPs, you are also obliged to make that conversion, as Mrs Comic says, and in relation to members of the government. Please respect and implement the Rules of Procedure in a consistent manner, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8070	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. I did mention the MPs, within the meaning of Article 109. I hope you understand me, you're a lawyer, it's regulated by article 109, and it applies to MPs. In that sense, I gave an explanation to Mrs. Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted you to plead in the Voting Day.) ) Do you want to go to Voting Day to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Mr. Djuric, do you want one? (Bojan Djuric, from the post: There will be 50 times more votes on the Rules of Procedure than on amendments. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8071	National MP Bojan Djuric pointed out the injury I wanted to point to. Thank you for your word, but the way you interpret the Rules of Procedure does not go in favour of the course of the session, and especially does not say anything about those in which you apply the Rules of Procedure selectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8072	I have to say, I didn't understand you very well. Could you explain to me what I did wrong? I didn't understand how the way I run the session isn't in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8073	I said Mr. Djuric pointed out a violation of the Rules of Procedure that I wanted to point to. I thanked you for your word...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8074	I understand that, but I didn't understand the follow-up to your discussion. No problem. You'll explain later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8075	I won't explain it to you. I'd like to thank you for your word. I don't want to break the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8076	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8077	Great of you to mention the law. That inspired me to show you in another way how wrong you are. Therefore, the provision of Rule 116 states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure at the National Assembly session apply to other participants at the National Assembly session. Article 116, as well as Article 109, which says that the reminder is given to the MP, are found in the section of the Rules of Procedure which bear the title – Number 4, that is, so on. marginal title – Maintaining order at the session. Provision of Article 116 The Rules of Procedure shall mean that all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure from Articles 105 to 116 are applied equally, on equal terms and in equal scope to all participants in the debate in the National Assembly. The question is whether a member of 109 uses the term participants or MPs is a legal-technical issue, a question of standardization technique. That is why there are general clauses in Article 116 which obliges you to apply this article to other participants in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8078	Perhaps I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure differently. Article 109, in my opinion, should say that the reminder is given to the participant at the session. It's a different interpretation. You may request an interpretation by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law on the application of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8079	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I just have to respond to your initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8080	You have no right to do that, Mr. Guric. You can check that in the Rules of Procedure, too. You can ask in voting day to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8081	I'm looking for an interpretation of the board. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8082	Yes, of course. Mr. Janko Radakovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8083	Of course, there is a power to attack and there is an opposition to do so. Mr. Ilic, we're in opposition now, and you're in power. You were in opposition from 2008 to 2012, but you were in power from 2004 to 2008, when it was privatised from 23 to 24 external privatisations, and among them "Luka Belgrade". Ask the "Luke Belgrade" workers what they think of the privatisation. I remind you again, I have already said that, a "Luka Belgrade" has been bought to perform port's work, not to build apartments. If he wants to, the city of Belgrade will give permission, but first it must pay for the conversion that you are abolishing today. Tomislav Nikolic has been elected president. What is Tomislav Nikolic's first visit? A club of businessmen, to thank the tycoons. Right? We're not against the construction industry, we want to build in Belgrade, we just want to pay for what needs to be paid. The citizens of Belgrade are being taken money. Are you the ones who are attacking us for the bridge? Today you give five bridges to five tycoons. Mr. Ilic, tell me one side of the company that has land in Serbia and will not pay for land conversion without an intermediary in the image of Milan Bek, Miroslav Miskovic, Vojin Lazarevic, Bogoljub Karic. Just one. Why hasn't the conversion in Belgrade been paid, why is only one being paid? Because they were waiting for you to come to power. They waited for you to come to power to make this possible legally -- the vote of parliament, the conversion is lifted, and they get the opportunity to take two billion euros for themselves. That's true. ( Dragomir Karic, from the place: Replica, please! We'll be here all day. I want an answer to my question. I ask the chairman to warn the MPs not to give me any money.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8084	Please, he didn't finish the previous speaker. When the previous speaker finished, but now he's running out of time. There's a replica coming up...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8085	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8086	You're out of time, Mr. Radakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8087	I have the right as an authorized promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8088	No, you can't extend the replica, you can report later as an authorised promoter at the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. The word has Zoran Babic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really advocate that every truth should be shown in this high house. I also agree that everyone should pay for the service they received or for the good they bought, but I really cannot accept what the previous speaker said, unless he answers why the city of Belgrade changed the building area of ad hoc, so that at the location at the corner of King Milan and King Milutin, the affair "four kings", an object was built whose investors were Mr. Vlahovic, Djunic and the team. In this way, the city of Belgrade, because of the extra construction zone, ad hoc only because of one building, has been transferred to the first construction zone, and all citizens of Belgrade have lost their income of eightm euros. Then what's it called? Care for the citizens of Belgrade? No, it's a robbery of citizens of Belgrade, and it happened in the previous period. If you can get me to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8090	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8091	I understand the frustration of a fellow who makes noises trying to stop some things, which are true, come out. I also understand the frustration of people coming from the city in which they took fourth place in the last election, but the concern about the dignity of the Assembly, when it comes from someone who played games in the previous term, I think it's really hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8092	The word is Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8093	Article 109 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, item 1th indent 7, because I couldn't understand the speaker who spoke about Tomislav Nikolic, whether it was just about Tomislav Nikolic or the president of the DS and mayor of Belgrade, Mr Gilas, who since becoming mayor of Belgrade is eight hundred times richer today than when he became mayor. Did he also mean that, a few days before Mr Miskovic's arrest, Dragan Djilas, president of the DS and mayor of Belgrade, they agreed on what to do further? Is that what he meant? Gentlemen of the DS, you didn't take advantage of your opportunity because you owed the tycoons. That's why you had to put up with them. That's why you had to let them be richer and more powerful. We owe them nothing, and that is why we allow the state authorities to do their job, to process all those who have damaged the citizens of Serbia by their misdeeds. I'm sorry you got involved in that story, but that's what you should have thought about when you became addicted to tycoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8094	I ask the MPs, who advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to deal exclusively with the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand what Mr. Arsic pointed out and, as far as the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, it is clear to me in the first part, and to me it is unclear how the previous speaker meant it, but I ask you not to spread the problem in the form of a replica. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8095	Mr. Chairman, article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of Work, for the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here some DS deputies are honored that they are not worthy to say something to SNS people. It's even mentioned that some played games. I wish Tomislav Nikolic knew he was playing on the computer in 1999, not playing with Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija wouldn't be the largest American aircraft carrier today. I wish it was... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8096	Please, Mr. Milivoevich, you were talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so you moved on to replication. I warn you, the next speaker to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, will receive a warning. The word is Gordana Komic, an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8097	Dear Mr. Chairman, Article 27 and Article 103 were injured just before you gave a word to MP Srdjan Milivojevic, as on the basis of Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure, it must be explained by the chairman. It is the first attitude and second position in Article 103 that gives us that precious right. The way to abuse this right also, unfortunately, obliges the chairman to make sure that anyone who abuses the right under Article 3 gives a warning because it is the right to point to a breach of the procedure of precious right. I believe that you should have applied all the members of the Rules of Procedure, no matter how much I know for sure, it is difficult when MPs want to abuse the rights given to them by Article 103 and the right to be given over the order and to indicate what was injured in the procedure. What is the essence of Article 27 is that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are applied differently depending on who is a participant of the session. Please, and in this, you will have our support that you consistently apply Article 103, that everyone who asks to speak about injury proceedings has the right to speak, but that there is no right to abuse regardless of whether it belongs to the ruling majority, so he considers that he has more rights than it belongs to a minority, or opposition. I'm telling you that there are no fewer rights here than we are before the Rules of Procedure and before the President of the Assembly, all equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8098	I think I've made myself clear. So I was clear enough, I didn't want to apply the measures, and I just sat here. It's time for us to negotiate first, as we would say. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but if you insist it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if it deserves to be decided on in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8099	Thank you. I think the Rules of Procedure serve to apply, and whether or not we will vote, it is quite obvious that there will be a very large number of votes in the Rules of Procedure vote, my message is only, consistent application of Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8100	Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? We have the order Janko Radaković, Dragomir Karic, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Đurić and Veroljub Arsic, that's how much I understand the replicas. You're the one who's picking up Ristic's report after the Rules of Procedure's injury? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8101	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honored Chairman, I am advertising the violation of article 110 which says - the measure of confiscation is expressed to the People's MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, who subsequently violates the order at the session or acts against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Just to remind you, you threatened to warn one of the people earlier, and you did not warn them that this would be the third warning, given that he was told two yesterday. So the third cannot be said. I don't know what else I can do to please this copy of the MPs. So the only thing I'm advertising is that you're not warning him that you're going to give him a warning since it would be his third. I am not the one who advocates the distance from the opposition, but you must bring him to the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, and you must warn him that he respects the dignity of the National Assembly, his own dignity and yours, and I am not in the position of giving him such a drastic measure, but you must also warn him of that. I believe that there are those who sleep in city halls here, so they don't know what their leaders are doing, but that's why they're making inappropriate accusations here, as is one MP who slept very well through the city hall, so now he doesn't know what his leader did. As good as they were and as good as they were calling for the election, they were so good that they changed their own president, he was such a good candidate, and he was talking about their quality. So, I want you to warn them that you will be applying the Rules of Procedure in the future, given that I "drinked" one warning last night and didn't deserve anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8102	Just to be clear, I have to answer you, so I didn't mean any MPs specifically, but in principle I said we should be serious about the work of the Assembly. In that sense, I also asked those who advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure to just talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone picking up after the Rules of Procedure's injury? No, I don't. ) Yet, Mr. Arsic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while counterpart Marijan Risticevic was speaking, the Rules of Procedure, Article 109 of Item 1(4) of the indent 4 were injured. Also while there was advertising of Article 103. I would like the Rules of Procedure in which the MP asked that the Rules of Procedure be applied literally, when it comes to the consistent application of the Rules of Procedure, to remember the same MP as the Members of Parliament as he chaired and led the Assembly. Let me remind you, did a single MP from the ruling majority from 2008 to 2012 receive a warning. So if we want to talk about the consistent application of the Rules of Procedure, I think this Rules of Procedure is most consistent now, even though we haven't voted in favour of this Rules of Procedure and brought it in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8104	Thank you. I think you're right about this indent. I ask the People's Messengers not to receive other people's messengers as they speak. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8105	I will ask you, Mr. Arsenovic, to do the only thing you can do right now. It is obvious that, as the Rules of Procedure says, you cannot provide regular measures for order and normal course of this session. First, the session was half an hour late. We're trying to talk about the law here... (Chairman: Mr. Djuric, you didn't tell me, by what member? You said after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which member do you advertise? I don't understand why you're producing anxiety. I wanted to help you. Article 112 Rules of Procedure. I think the conditions of Article 112 have been met. The Rules of Procedure that since you can't maintain order on a regular basis at the session, set a minimum break, then go back to the O.R. and start discussing the law again. There are MPs here who are properly reported, who want to get their word, and I want as soon as possible, in the normal atmosphere, and not as at the fair to talk about laws, above all about a law worth 20 billion dinars, as the minister says, whose entry and power is predicted immediately. We're looking for an emergency. We've been listening here for days about how we have to adopt all the laws urgently, and these kids, as someone said patheticly, freeze as the cold crowns the walls and roofs. I ask you all to be serious and to comply with the authority you have under Article 112. The Rules of Procedure give a minimum break, so let's get back to the agenda points and have a normal debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8106	You'll still let me assess, if I have to, when I'm gonna take a break. The word has Dragomir Karic, because he was called. Here you go, Mr. Karic. Start a survey committee, be parliamentary, listen to me, I listen to you all the time, and you're making it harder to move forward with anything. This is my well-intentioned proposal, and I am at your disposal, precisely for those of you who laugh, whatever room you want, go ahead, question me all you want, and you'll see what it is. I'll only have one question for you, what did you do with those two billion euros? Mr. Radakovic, I ask you to explain to me, you're looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8108	Replication of Velimir Ilic's presentation and five other lines after I was called by all the MPs All right, I got a call from Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic, Mr. Karic... [[President: You've had a replica of exposure...]] (President): So I ask you, whose display are you looking for a replica? ) Honorable Chairman, however you wish, give me a replica of the presentation of whoever MPs you consider to be entitled to a replica, you decide. (President: Gentlemen of the People's Messengers, let me still hear the messenger of the people say what he is saying. In a public and noisy discussion like this, I'm not in a position to judge and hear what a man says, so I ask you for a little silence, no matter how irritated you are now, leave it aside, and behave here with dignity. ) The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Babic asked me, told me that I spoke loudly, talked about it. Mrs. G17 plus also mentioned me, please give me your word and give me my time back to the beginning. (President: No, I won't give you my word, because you caused the replica... Mr. Chairman, I'm authorized in front of my group, they attacked DS here, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8109	No, by your discussion, you've caused a replica, and I won't give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8110	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8111	Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8112	The Honorable Chairman, you have violated Article 27, which is how you conduct this session. So, I am an authorised promoter, authorized in front of my parliamentary group and, please, I have the right to respond to all the MPs who through this party, myself personally or say something that is offensive to my name and name. Mr. Risticevic himself called me, Mr. Babic, too, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8113	I'm going to refer you to Article 104(3), where he says about the use of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is about the right to replication, decided by the President of the National Assembly. I've decided you don't have the right to a replica and we're done with it. The Republic is wanted by Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8114	I am sorry that all members of my group do not stand in the same way in front of you, so I am giving up the replica I intend to give up on both the Rules of Procedure and the reasons and the right to win. If the decision is that DS MPs can't get a replica, I'm an DS MP, and we'll manage without a replica to send everyone the message we want and to tell the truth. It's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8115	I believe that the course of the replica that has been started and which has continued has exceeded the topic we are discussing today, and that is why I believe that the replica should be ended. She's not gonna get us anywhere, and you're not gonna prove anything or anyone else at this meeting today. I'm asking Mr. Marijan Risticevic after he asked for a replica, whose exhibition?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8116	Well, I was mentioned by a previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8117	Who's talking about you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8118	Speaker before Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8119	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8120	And why is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8121	You're not mentioned. Please, we're done with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8122	So did he mention me or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8123	Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8124	Dear Chairman, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, does it have the right to say, to read the view: "The measure of distance from the session is expressed to the MP who, after the measures taken, interferes with or prevents the work of the sitting". Since you've given me two warnings, take my word for it, get me out of the session, but let me say what I want to say to the MPs. I've been called here by five MPs, and I have no right to say anything on behalf of my MP group. Please give me your word, first of all, you haven't asked me for Article 27, I ask for Article 27 and for Article 111 that the National Assembly in the voting day declares this proposal, because I also want to answer Mr. Karic, to ask him where Bogoljub Karic is, to ask Mr. Babic, he tells me that I am yelling here and talking loudly. Mr. Babic, you're a bad copy of Mr. Wolf. When we say the evidence, you say, you yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8125	Please, Mr. Radakovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8126	Mr. Risticevic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8127	Can I help you? Whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8128	If I don't have the right to reply, because there's been an adjudication of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to refer to Article 106, article 107, too. I take care of what I say carefully. I'd like, for no reason to justify myself, for a transcript of my exposure today to be delivered to everyone. At no point did I remind anyone of the loud speech of attitudes and words spoken. What I'm going to do, I'm going to thank the previous speaker, because he said I was a copy of Alexander Wolf. It is an honor in Serbia, it is an honor to be a copy of a man who is a personification of the fight against crime and corruption. Since I didn't get an answer to the question why the city of Belgrade lost eightm euros, because one location was transferred from an extra construction zone to the first one, one sentence still ends... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8129	Please, no more. Mr. Đuric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8130	First, I think you were obliged to warn Mr. Babic. In Serbia, cloning human beings is forbidden, I'm more kidding. I would remind you again that you have the possibilities of Article 112, you are unable to provide regular measures of order at this session, please do everything, interrupt the session for five minutes, everyone will calm down and we will return to normal debate, because this requires more than an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8131	Marijan Risticevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8132	I am advocating Article 107 where it is said that "in the session of the National Assembly no direct address of the MP to the other People's Parliament is allowed". I've had less than five minutes, twice to have a colleague speak directly to me. After my first address, I didn't get the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, and now I got it. I really don't mind the opposition being respected when it violates the rules to see through their fingers. I was mentioned for the first time that I mentioned a colleague, and I didn't mention him at all. I was just saying that there are MPs who, as councilors in the City Assembly, are very nice about what their leaders are doing, and if someone in it recognized himself, he's guilty, I can't help him, and there's nothing there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8133	Do any of the authorized representatives want a word? George Milicevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8134	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us a set of extremely important legislative proposals. What I want to say at the very beginning, when it comes to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry, that... (President: I ask the People's Messengers for silence. Here you go. ( ) Answering the question, did anyone at the level of the locals, the level of cities, the municipality get jobs in some of the illegal ways, not our business. If he was getting it, let the competent authorities and the competent institutions determine it. As far as the SPS is concerned, we believe in the work of competent authorities and competent institutions, but everyone in Serbia should do their job. As far as I understand you, Mr. Ilic, when it comes to this legislative proposal, the bottom line is that the projects that have begun and are not completed from the moment the legislative proposal was passed, July 2010, to this day, will be completed, which is extremely important. As far as I understand you, the second thing that is also more important is that in the Republic of Serbia's budget, or, as I understand it, your ministry has been provided with funds, which will be funded, launched and implemented in the next two years. It is a clear intention and goal, it is and fully justified and will have the support of the SPS parliamentary club. If, as you said, projects will be funded in the next period of time under the law that we are talking about today and adopted in July 2010, then it is extremely important and has talked about this for a little while, define the criteria under which local self-government will be able to compete for the realization of certain projects. It is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia also predicted that under the 2013 budget, funds are provided, but these funds, as a basis, must also be provided for local self-government and local self-government budgets, i.e. cities and municipalities, are more or less, during this time period, are currently being considered and adopted. It is therefore important to define at the outset criteria under which local self-government will be able to compete with the restoring ministry. So what I'm also saying is that neither it all begins nor ends when it comes to one government of the Republic of Serbia. Governments and parliamentary majority in Serbia are variable and that is democracy, but the relationship to issues, which are essential, vital to the citizens of Serbia, must never and should never be variable. Of course, if the previous government is a previous government, each government has its own positive and negative things, but of course if some positive things are not completed in the term of the previous government, it is perfectly logical to take over and continue to realise these, specifically in this case, projects, infrastructure, capital projects, continue the next government. The draft law on the promotion of the construction industry, we adopted, more precisely, on July 4th, that is, the application of July 4th 2010, and the SPS parliamentary club did support this legislative proposal, then in the Republic Parliament. What we were saying back then, that it wouldn't have been if we'd changed our mind over time, so what we were saying then, I'm going to say today. We supported this legislative proposal, because, above all, by supporting this legislative proposal because we wanted to support the intention and aim, which were to achieve and implement the adoption of this legislative proposal, which is to encourage, develop, employ the construction industry, secure the liquidity of this extremely important sector, in the period of negative economic effects, we feel the negative effects of the economic crisis. Then, to hire, encourage businesses, which are involved in building material production, create new jobs, and what is essential on the basis of all of this, encourage economic development. On the other hand, by supporting this legislative proposal, we actually wanted to support everything that needed to be realised and financed through this bill, and that's what we were already talking about here, and the kindergarten, and schools and various objects of public importance, apartments, highways. The expected positive results of this legislative proposal, I do not want to be politically incorrect, come from Valjev and the expected positive results of this legislative proposal, in the city from which I come, are both visible and recognizable. But what is essential, and that was also a little bit of an hour to say, it is important, and it would have been good, if, in the context of the reasoning of this bill, we had a concrete analysis of the results of the application of the law, which we adopted in July 2010. Based on that analysis, we could look at the results today. On the other hand, we could look at what was really the essence of adopting this bill. It has been said that this legislative proposal, in fact, should encourage the development of the construction industry, i.e. to boost to a higher level, the activity of the construction industry. It is very precise and clear then that the level of activity of the construction industry, in that period, at the moment we adopted this legislative proposal in 2010, was the lowest than in the previous ten years. So, if we had a legal explanation today, we could look through the analysis, at what level today is the construction industry, or the activity of the construction industry in Serbia. But the results, I repeat, starting with municipalities, cities, are visible and recognizable. The intention and aim, when the word of this legislative proposal is not disputed, they are justified and will therefore have the support of the SPS parliamentary club again. To realise the objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is definitely important to start the country's economic recovery. To achieve economic recovery, it is important to encourage economic development, it is important to launch investments, it is important to launch the realisation of capital and infrastructure projects, we are talking about today. So there is no infrastructure, no economic recovery, and therefore investment in infrastructure projects, capital projects, the only realistic approach, which can solve the burning and essential issue today in Serbia, which is the issue of the unemployed. Stimulating economic activity, investing budget funds through the intensification of capital investments, above all, I said in the infrastructure. Strengthening the capacity of domestic production, are our priorities, and this is something that needs to be encouraged and implemented by this legislative proposal. The construction industry, which has also been said about, is a sector of exceptional national importance, especially in the period of the economic crisis and what is important, is that Serbia has to be a major construction site again, because only this way and only that is a guarantee of a better future. As I said, the SPS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, I would first like to say that the law on planning and building is an extremely important and significant law. So it's a complex question. The complexity and complexity of this issue lies in the fact that in fact this law, the Law on Planning and Construction, contained three laws under this law, namely that it is a synthesis and a set of all laws, the Law on Planning, the Law on Construction and the Law on Building Land. When it comes to planning, very briefly, I will say in one sentence that it is very important for Serbia to be planned and covered. When the word builds, too, it must be arranged, procedures and reduced costs must be simplified. As regards the legalisation of illegally built objects, it must not give up on those essential objectives, to write down all objects, to legalise those that can be legalised and to prevent further illegal construction. When it comes to building land, this is about conversion. The point is, I'd like to talk about one of the biggest privatisations in Serbia. What I particularly want to point out is that the greatest wealth of one municipality or city is just building land. Therefore, this privatisation must be just, socially fair and must be prevented from what has already been said, and that is the tycunisation of building land. The proposed changes and additions aim to encourage, as stated in the legal explanation, the investment cycle, improving the situation in the construction industry, and on the other hand, it is assumed that the deadline proposed will be sufficient to solve the key issue in one system way, which is the issue of conversion. As for the SPS parliamentary club, we support any proposal that will encourage the development of the construction industry, raise to a higher level the activity of the construction industry in Serbia, but must not be an excuse to violate one of the principles that we have very clearly defined and highlighted when it comes to conversion. So it has to be fair, it has to be socially just and it has to be prevented from tycunizing building land. It is very important that during this debate on conversion, we open up all those misunderstandings and open issues that exist. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, it is actually a matter of rationalising the state administration, i.e. saving at the level of the state administration, which is the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the implementation of the declared objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia requires this rationalisation of the institutional framework in the military traffic sector, in order, first of all, not to prevent uninterrupted operation when it comes to traffic, and on the other hand, to avoid certain discrepancies with EU law. Also, this legislative proposal also puts it in line with this legislative proposal, removing some of the shortcomings observed in the application of the law. And this legislative proposal will have the support of the SPS Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8135	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8136	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have four legal solutions on the agenda today. I'd give myself the freedom to put them in two groups. The first group of laws would make changes to the Law on Planning and Construction, as well as amendments to the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry, and the other two laws speak and regulate the area of water transport in the Republic of Serbia. As for the amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, it has already been said quite a bit in the previous debate, but what I want to point out is the fact that in recent years and in this place, this Parliament has been talking about the Law on Planning and Construction, which is precisely the complexity of the whole area defined by this law, but, on the other hand, a certain wandering in search of and finding the best solution. We are all aware that this is one of the essential system laws and rejoices and encourages the fact that Mr Ilic today confirmed, that in the next six months, we will get one good, modern law, supported by all those who are life-interested in this area. As far as the Law on Planning and Construction is concerned, it is certainly a law relating to planning, building land, building buildings, monitoring, and we will all agree that these are very important segments of a society and that they talk about order in that area, but I would say not only arrangements in the field of planning and construction, but also talk about the arrangement of the whole society. The aspect from which I want to talk about amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction is certainly an aspect of investment and creating ambience for new investments and removing all those obstacles that are in the way of start-up investments. I'm sure that never again, and not only in our country, is it not talked about the necessity of investment and that we never again swore to the necessity and the need and repeated commitment and commitment to new investments, but we're asking the question is it enough just to swear and repeat that word as a mantra, that we're all for investment? Of course not. The fact is that our country is still in 175th place, out of 183 ranked countries, at the speed of issuing permits. As long as the permit in Serbia is completed in 279 days, the declarative swearing to investors is not enough. According to an analysis by the US Agency for International Development, many bottlenecks are in the current procedures for issuing permits. There are no urban plans in many municipalities. Investors have difficulty identifying ownership over parcels, and are completely confused by restitution, legalisation and conversion, and is precisely the theme of the conversion of today's amendment of the Law on Planning and Construction. We are all aware that it does not take someone on the side to tell us what the situation in our country is in this area and how much time it takes to get permits. It's enough to talk to all those people who had the courage to invest in Serbia. They'll confirm the exact same things. The facts presented are not some exaggerated novelty, but they are certainly not for praise either, but what is necessary in the next period and what we all expect, and all those who are related to this area, is a whole new approach and, as I said, a whole new legislation. Once again, I have to say, we heard that this legislation is being prepared. What is predicted by the changes in the existing law, and what we are discussing today, I see as removing one of the obstacles so that one more for us may not be lost, perhaps, the most important construction season, and that some suspended investments may be cut off. The amendments provided for in this law relate to the conversion of the right of use to property rights under compensation. More specifically, by eradicating Article 6 of the basic law in Article 103, as well as giving the possibility to the holder of the right of use referred to in Article 103(1), that he may exercise the right to build a new facility, i.e. the construction and reconstruction of existing facilities in accordance with the purpose of the land determined by valid planning documents within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law and, most importantly, without providing evidence of the land conversion carried out, we see that the legislator has created the possibility that currently stopped investments due to the conversion problem started in the following year, and the estimated value of these suspended investments is around two billion. At the beginning of construction due to land conversion, there are around 100 major projects waiting for the compensation, as well as the fact that some investors have already withdrawn and given up construction, as well as the fact that the conversion is waiting for IKEA, "Plaza", Hotel Yugoslavia, it is clear why it is necessary for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. The amendments to this law will certainly not solve all the problems of the fallen construction industry and create all the conditions that potential investors cannot refuse, but will certainly remove some obstacles. What I want to say today, and as far as this law and the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry are concerned, is certainly our support for the government's aspirations to seduce order in public finances and to first settle debts to the contractors who were working under this law in the previous period. The government's intention to approve this law is clear. We look forward to the information that by the end of the year, two and a half billion will be paid to construction workers in Serbia, which is certainly support for the construction industry. I say once again, we support the fact that the government wants to seduce order into public finances. In the voting day, the URS parliamentary group will certainly support this set of laws, aware that this is only one step in creating a favourable environment for investors and helping the construction industry, but on the other hand, we expect that this is just the beginning of a new approach in this very important area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8137	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Our first speaker is MP Branislav Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8138	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I can look forward with special satisfaction to the Law on the Encouragement of Serbia's construction industry under the conditions of the economic crisis, adopted by this Assembly, which has proved to be very effective in practice, because it has achieved its objectives and is yet to deliver results. According to statistics, growth in the construction industry has been recorded since the application of this law. When we voted in favour of this law, we wanted first of all to save jobs in that branch, to include domestic operations and to help construction producers in Serbia. The construction industry is an indicator of the crisis. Investment in construction, on the first signs of crisis, is halted and the entire chain of crisis is established. We have just suspended the adoption of laws on the incentive of Serbia's construction industry under the conditions of the economic crisis. To avoid confusion, our builders, as in most other branches, do not flower roses, but the fact that there is no fall, but that even a small growth is recorded, shows the effectiveness of the legal solution. That is why we expect, we want and we want this law to continue for the next two years, in order to mitigate and reduce the effects of the economic crisis. Also, I want to draw your attention to another positive effect of applying this law. These are numerous infrastructure facilities that have greatly improved the quality of life in municipalities and cities, bridges, schools, kindergartens, disputed facilities, halls, swimming pools, renovated theatres and other constitutional cultures in Kragujevac, Nis, Subotica, Indjijija, Užica, Novi Sada, Apatino, Ruma, Koserić and other cities, a long list. The time of the general economic crisis is certain that such construction projects exceed the possibilities of many local self-government. It is clear that the construction of Belgrade and the rest of the country is not on the same level, not even on a similar level, but it is also increasingly clear that the irregular development of the country only deepens the gap at all levels and multiplys the crisis. Thanks to this law and the rest of Serbia will get its chance to develop and at least round the needs of internal citizens. As Nišli, a Serbian citizen from the south, I had the opportunity to see the quality of life, us from the inside, change for the better, as our children's chances of living in a better environment grow. This law gave us a chance to build a new stadium in Nis. The legendary Chair Stadium was ahead of the collapse and a major security threat. The first man of our football team has already announced that our best football players at the renovated stadium will play official games. We look forward to it, and it's an opportunity to promote ourselves as a city. You know that a low-level slow audience has not proven to be part of a large sports audience so far. In many ways, we have achieved great results not only on the domestic but also on the international agenda. We did, and now we only have the Hall of Chair. She's about 40 years old, now she's renovated, and that's good. It can only receive 3,500 viewers and it is too low for Nis and low slow audiences. Nis is a city where it gravitates two million inhabitants of the region and shows a real need for a much bigger hall, an arena. We are not megalomans and our expectations are not the Belgrade arena, but a low arena suitable for the size and needs of our city. Nis and Nislim deserve the development of top sports, conditions that can meet the needs of the team. Even in the mandate of the previous republic and local authorities, a decision has been made to build such a hall under the provisions of the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, some invisible political hand, just from Belgrade, is someone who stopped it all. Once again, our needs are subordinated to some political will, informal groups and powers at that moment. We in Nis have enough political and life experience to know how and how to fight, to be persistent and patient in achieving our stated goals. What's real is we have enough energy and motivation to fight for our city. In the past decades, we have repeatedly shown that we are good organizers of great national and international events in sports, science, culture, in the broadest sense of that word. In Nis there is a bar on paper agreement of all political parties that a new hall is needed and we address the Republic to help us build, and one of these steps is this law. After all, let us leave Belgrade, ask Pirocans, Zrenjance, Valevčana, Zaječarci, in all cities there are similar answers and agreements on building capital infrastructure facilities for what is the real need of municipalities and cities and which exceeds their financial opportunities. That's why we all need this law, as logistics and a new step in achieving our goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8139	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8140	Why did Mr. Jovanovic do this to you, Mr. Ilic? You've told us five times that under this law, extending the law on aid to the construction industry, no new projects will be launched. Mr. Jovanovic has now been talking for five, six minutes about how Nis will get a low arena, precisely thanks to the application of this law in the coming years. Will this law be applied to new projects, or will it not be applied to new projects? That's very important to hear right now. The other thing is that when there are some discussions about this law being heard here, I often get the impression that we are either in the DDR or in North Korea. If there is so much interest in Nis or anywhere else in Serbia, so many people will come to watch sports, cultural and other events, so are sports clubs, artists, etc., how is there no interest in the market to organize a job, build a hall, stadium or anything else? The state and local self-government must always appear, bring political relations and build Podkin's villages. The success of Nis or any other place in Serbia, the success of our football team will not depend on whether the state builds a stadium or whether players will thunderously sing anthem. It depends on their technical, sports football skills. When the state gets involved in these affairs, it just blames the market, deforms it, destroys competition and destroys the economy. It's not true that the law on the aid of the construction industry saves the construction industry and that it's derived from the problem. This was a way for you to drag construction companies into a chain of circuits and put them under complete dependence on the republican or local authorities. I really don't understand that argument, that the law is phenomenal, that it worked phenomenally, and that at the very beginning of the exhibition, you tell us that there are enormous debts to construction firms and companies that participated in the realization of this project. Is that true? They participated in the realisation of this project and the realization of each of the projects you like to call investment in infrastructure, and then from the mandate to the mandate you compete to prove where there will be a larger multiplier, so from three dinars on each invested dinar, over five dinars on each invested dinar, I see that the Ministry of Finance is in some of the latest estimates, when it subsidises jobs, that seven dinars are returned to each invested through taxes and contributions. Such a rate of increase in money and property did not exist at the Jugocank and Dafiment Bank. As these pyramids have ended, so will this attempt. You're aware of that. Please agree on what is your political concept when you come to this House, not that every party in the government and its MPs in parliament have a diametrically opposed view of whether or not the law is good, whether it has achieved epochal results or has been a disaster, whether it is constitutional or not, whether it enables corruption or does not allow corruption, whether you will continue with its implementation or not. So, once again, let me repeat the question – will only existing projects be completed or will new Podokin villages be built in every election campaign ahead of us or repaying debts for those jobs that were launched in campaigns that preceded this law? Mr. Andric talked about it. I see there are other MPs. However, some of them will vote in favour of this law, although they think it is not good, which is also the specificity of the Serbian political system, that the law in this only provision it has is, in fact, deeply contrary to the fact that it violates competition on the market, that this part of the law called a declaration of compliance with EU rules is simply an insult to common sense. How can you say that there are no sources of EU law that regulate the issue of helping a segment in industry? I don't know if you know that Serbia has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is applying the Transitional Trade Agreement and has a State Aid Act? The key issue of our integration into the EU market is respect and improvement of competition rules, the fight against monopoly, the fight against market division, the fight against cartels. You make state cartels with this law by bringing together companies that you can, you must, blackmail them, or they ask you for some reason and then you give them jobs, you order them to do what, you make them take over political projects, and you blackmail them so that if they don't, you won't pay them who knows what war, who knows what debt they've made in the past. It's really amazing in a country where when the first more serious snow falls, the same state that builds highways, maintains highways, everything works in this country, is not able to provide essential conditions for the lives of the citizens of this country. The law you have proposed today and which you are asking for to be valid for the next two years, a shooting in the Public Procurement Act that you have proposed to this parliament last week. You're pulling out of the application of that law, the anti-corruption one, as you like to say, segment in which possible abuses are the biggest, most often and where people are dealing with this job, which you're supposed to be helping, actually have no other option. They are up to their ears in your affairs, they are inequitable, as Mr. Milicevic says, because the state owes them and because the units of local self-government owe them. I've heard a few times how the citizens in this place or that place are thrilled. I did not hear any concrete information, except that Mr Milicevic said he would like to see what the effects are, so that he could discuss the law more specifically, but it did not prevent him from having the effect of not promising his support and voting for this law. I don't know, maybe for some locals around Nisa, that famous bridge of two, two and a half meters is so important, but I'm not sure that the national interest of the Republic of Serbia is to completely collapse the legal system because such a bridge or a similar thing could be built. Is the money invested in some serious thing? Does Serbia today have fewer Polish toilets in primary and secondary schools than it did three years ago when you passed the law? A thousand schools in Serbia have a Polish toilet, but since there is no campaign in the Polish toilet and there is no campaign in front of it, and you can't organize a New Year's concert by an estranged star, then you don't invest in it. Mr. Lapcevic says he can. Serbia is so low in this demagogy, I expect it to be the last phase or the next stage, Mr. Lapcevic. I hear there are some cities where now this idea to emulate the authorities of the Republic and the local reality in the field by having more New Year's Eve and more singers. I guess both coalitions are trying to win the citizens and, as you like to say, meet their needs. There was a lot of populism in this debate and in this law and in the Law on Planning and Construction. The Liberal Democratic Party was very dissatisfied with the bill and when it was proposed. You invited us, all the political parties, as I understand it, to engage in the creation of this law and along the way, you said that the greatest experts are currently writing a new law on planning and construction. Mr. Ilic, you and I both know that it's not a problem in experts, that experts can also write a very solid law last time, in a technical sense. Our laws on planning and building are destroyed by politicians, political ambitions and political demagogy. Last time, she was focused on offering citizens satisfaction and cheap justice by promising them that evil rich people or those who participated in privatisation would suddenly pay billions or tens of billions of nations by passing this law, that it would serve as some sort of substitute for real life. That ambition is amazing. You obviously don't have the strength to change at this point. I listened very carefully. Get away from saying that maybe it's or that you're politically committed that conversion isn't the best possible model of correcting injustice in privatization, excessive wealth, if you will, which it certainly was. I don't understand why we fake ourselves 20 years after we start privatization. Of course, in most of those cases where a company no longer worth anything, which hasn't worked for years or more than 10 years, of course those who bought, bought the location, bought the land. It's no surprise, that's all. Then you then introduce a rule, expecting that there will now be some billions of euros. It won't be. It'd be best if they were, but it won't be. No one's gonna pay for it, and they're gonna try to find a way not to pay. You've introduced a mechanism for some tax administrations to assess it. Where's the market? Where is the incentive for investors, spoken of by Mr Jovanovic and Mr Mitrovica? It's also totally amazing. You see the incentive for investors to come to this country by protecting in a scandalous way the domestic construction industry. It's hard for me to imagine a greater verbal nonsension than what you said in that form. If you want to give up this demagogy in the field of planning and construction, then start doing it right now. I find it hard to imagine that you will succeed in making a law on planning and construction that will not rest in demagogy and the fight against the private sector, against potential investors in this atmosphere as it is. Of course it's the easiest thing to say right now is that someone got rich. At the same time, this country helps some investors, pays jobs, etc. The whole government is begging the Russian side to buy a wake-up call for why this Iron Man in Smederev. Will you then ask them for some conversion, change, etc? That's why it's called transition. Of course, it's not always fair, but that's why it's the most important goal to be as fast as possible, to end it as soon as possible and to have equal market conditions afterwards. We've been squawking for 20 years and rebuilding Podkin's villages, so eventually we're all going to produce jam or otherwise we're going to have organized state production. Okay, but let's make a deal and go to the election like that. North Korea – Podokin's village, it can be the preamble of Serbia's new constitution and I guess everyone will be pleased. It's just, I don't know who's gonna build a land like that? I guess these kids who go to 1,000 schools to go to the Polish toilets. Pull these laws, even if this law of the so-called law. Help the construction industry. Don't put the country in a position where the Constitutional Court decides that this was against the constitution and that we all have huge problems over this. All those who participate in the adoption of this law and who will participate in its implementation, I remind you that in our criminal law there will continue to be an act of abuse of the official position and there will be acts of abuse in the public procurement process. There's also a trade in influence. Well, when you create a law where every act of this law actually means the execution of one of these crimes, then all of you should take care of what this country will look like in a few years, when a new government comes or when someone in this government decides it's time for a new campaign of demagogy and pulsism to address voters. There's a guy named Pedro who's gonna hang out all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8141	Thank you. Mr. Mitrovica, were you looking for a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8142	This isn't a classic replica, just one brief clarification. What I have presented in my presentation and what is the view of the URS is the attitude of all those people who have tried or invested in Serbia. This is the attitude of these people and they told us – you are about to cut off these investments that are just standing by to remove this obstacle. Is that the ultimate solution, and I made that clear – of course it is not the ultimate solution. It is clear to everyone in this country, first of all, that people from the construction industry, investors and all of us, need to do something urgent about this legislation that will be respected and will be checked and subject to the court of the professional public. The other thing I want, which is going through the debate here, which I think is very important to say. Looking from Belgrade's position, one bridge in a seven-metre village is certainly not some big investment. But believe them, it's just as important to them as the Ada Bridge to Belgrade. I'm just asking that these people, whose lives mean a seven-metre bridge, be respected. It's very important to me, and I will never support either demagogy or populism. I'll be the last one, and I'll always support your discussions, although, let me say, they're positive when you criticize demagogy and populism. One more thing, it's not true that none of these projects, which were built under this law, are completed and that some of them, as you say, are the beginning of projects that have no certain end. In particular, the town of Uzic has started a stadium. It's finished. Every other weekend, there's a sporting event that 10,000 people come to. (President: Time. () Do the people need bread and games? But I have to tell you that the committees of your committee group in Užica voted precisely that the town of Užice be in debt with 150 million and be a project of the city...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8143	I have to ask you to finish, since it's been two minutes. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8144	I agree with you, Mr. Mitrovica, but then say that you are against the existence of an institute of conversion in legislation, if I understand you correctly. Let me remind you, your political party voted for the law a few years ago. That's all it's about. I keep insisting on it, that we can't every time the government changes and the coalition's composition changes, act like something didn't happen last time, and defend with the same dictionary and optimism the attitude that's the opposite of the one you said a few years ago. That's all it's about. I don't mind if Uzice has a stadium, but, as far as I know, it's not a classic social club or a social or state institute. There's some kind of private sector in that club too, etc. But if we don't get into the details now, I might be wrong. There are some people in that stadium. You can't blame me for defending the Belgrade bridge, so I can attack some small bridge, because if you ask me, I don't think there should have been a Belgrade bridge in this way. I think the market needs to be opened as much as possible and that through more serious competition, it will achieve a faster deadline and cheaper price. Minister Ilic said someone started in the early 1990s "Beopolis" and it was a great idea, so it wasn't realized. It's not realized because the state has imposed itself as someone who needs to realize it. That's never good. Never can the state be an investor, a manager, etc., as someone else can. Even Croatia that has managed to make impressive highways, this week to use toll collection, maintenance, give concessions, because it cannot withstand financing such roads, a country that has seven or eight billion euros in annual tourism revenues. You have, this is more about Mr Jovanovic's discussion, four or five halls made in Croatia for the handball championship. It's not just the state investment, it's the income of a private public partnership... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And they've all failed, most of them are closed today because these communities can't finance their maintenance and business on a market basis. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8145	Thank you. Consensually. 27th and 87th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour, and we continue our work at 15.00 hours. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly today will extend the work, according to Article 87(2). The Rules of Procedure, after 1800 hours, for the need to propose acts from the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8146	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8147	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, MPs, has proposed all four laws that are under discussion today, the SPS parliamentary group will support. This was discussed in detail by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, our friend Djordje Milicevic, and I will only, in support of that, join with the proposal to clarify, on the one hand, the position of the SPS parliamentary group and, on the other hand, to take the opportunity to give one warning. I'll stick to two laws. Proposal for a Law on Incentives for the Construction Industry and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. What can be seen from our point of view, both laws have two common lines. First, when it comes to content. Both laws speak of the need to extend the fact, when it comes to incentives for the construction industry, for two years, and when it comes to planning and building 12 months, or a year. In the first case, the importance of the whole law continues. In another case, it's about one member. A member who speaks of the right to build those investors who have the right to use, and do not have a report on the conversion carried out. The second common line is, Mr. Minister rightly insisted in his presentation, which is an incentive to build in the broadest sense of the word. Both laws aim to encourage construction. Of course, there are different concepts, different approaches, and I respect that. I want to make it clear to the SPS that it fully supports the government's intention, Mr. Minister, of a goal that is intended to be achieved, which is an incentive for the construction industry. We repeat, as a parliamentary group, since Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's exposé that Serbia must invest in the economy, must invest in infrastructure, energy, agriculture, in production, because it is the only way to create a new value, to employ people, most importantly, and to provide financial resources. This is what we see as being on that plan, on that track. I want to be clear, if this proposal is a law on the promotion of the construction industry, in our opinion it is, if it is he who creates the conditions to encourage, to employ domestic construction operations, to be very precise, we support the employment of domestic construction operations. If it employs domestic construction operations, if it uses or uses domestic building material, if it encourages other industries, if that is the case, someone should do it. So, we keep jobs, or we hire people, which is the ultimate goal in Serbia to hire a man. Finally, if this is going to result in financial resources, i.e. returning back, it is sufficient reason to give absolute support to that direction. I was just about to point that out. Please, I don't want to interfere, separate, to say the least, from if there are irregularities, illegalities in that business, let the other authorities investigate it, and let anyone who has violated the law answer, whether it's called or anyone who has. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, it is about changing one member where the possibility is given within the next year that the investor can, on the basis of self-registration in the right to use, start building again in the broadest sense of the word without the conversion report. That's the approach we support. We understood your story at the beginning of this debate that you wanted to do it this way, assessing that it's blocked the building a lot, that you unblock it, that you allow investment in that area. You have our support in that. So the first reason is an incentive, which I was already talking about, is enough reason to support. Another reason I understood here is that within that period, within that year, a comprehensive law on planning and construction is being drawn up. I'd like to make a few points here, to be clear. First of all, I welcome your invitation to join in making this law, for the simple reason that it has different concepts, has different approaches and when they all face the goal is to get to the best that will be sustainable, which will be applicable, any government that is concerned. We're going to give absolute, full support to this government that has already proven that every problem faces, doesn't push it under the carpet, to get to one quality law. We find him very important. And last time there was a debate about it, I was saying that it was basically three laws, all three important, and planning, and building land, and building. We will give absolute support to this government to do everything it can to make Serbia cover every piece of its territory, to encourage a simplified procedure, to build as much as possible. It will be the best approach to curb illegal construction. In doing so, I deliberately mention incentives, because if we encourage it to be cheap to a man and make it more legal with permits, not to complicate his life, then there will be no need for him to go into illegal construction. But if we continue to create a climate that's cheaper for a man to make illegal, then legalize him, there's nothing from that job. It's been going on for years, and every government swears they'll get rid of it, and it's not settled. Finally, third very important, I even consider the most important issue, when it comes to planning and building, it's building land. Respecting all the reasons that you stated, supporting your goal, your desire to eliminate all obstacles, to make that area orderly and applicable, I just want to warn you of something, not to forget when we make that law. Building land is a huge fortune. The wealth of municipalities and cities is measured on building land. Don't let any possible version of the mind that will be present when the law is done. After all, the conversion that was imagined as one privatisation, perhaps the largest after privatisation of the housing fund, which for various reasons, you said yourself, failed, suggests that other solutions should be sought. I repeat what our friend Milicevic said, it must be both fair and just and not allowed to tycunize. I'll get it over with, there's got to be a market fee for building land. Just like I have to at the supermarket to pay the price that stands there, and not who I want, and here it has to. In the end, in order to be clear to the end, our view, our approach is that all those who bought businesses and factories, not to start production, hire people, modernise technology, but to close it all down, and wait for a convenient moment to sell building land and get rich, they have to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8148	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8149	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, now seems clear to all of us what kind of attitude some parliamentary groups have, I'm just curious whether that attitude varies from government to government, or whether it is related to certain matter regarding the law? Both law and law, the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Incentives of the Construction Industry were passed during the previous Government. The law was voted by the ruling parties at the time. Some of the ruling parties at the time are also in the current government. The Law on Planning and Construction introduced a term of conversion and was then supported by these parties. Now that conversion is suspended and will again be supported by the same parties. What do you think when something's right? When is it in place or when it is abolished, or are we going to Pasicevski both? The Law on Planning and Construction and you, Mr Minister, when it was passed two years ago, sharply criticised and presented what the DSS parliamentary group considered, and today considers it to be a corruption. Indeed, it is the foothold of corruption, if, under a steam of help from the construction industry, public procurement is suspended and it opens up a space for new jobs that will only work for similar companies. The objectives of this law, which was adopted in 2010, were contained in Articles 22 and 5, as follows: Under 1) – overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis in Serbia's construction industry, or aiding the construction industry to get out of the crisis. Has that goal been achieved? I don't think so. Neither the crisis in the construction industry has been overcome, nor have the companies been helped in this regard. The development and employment of the domestic construction industry and the liquidity of the construction sector were encouraged under 2). Just before we heard from you that out of 170,000 people, how long they worked in construction in 2008, we burned to 70,000. Not that the construction industry was not supported in terms of hiring new people, but we lost over 100,000 people in the sector. The third objective was to encourage the development and employment of domestic enterprises dealing with the construction industry. I'm not sure that goal has been achieved. The fourth goal is to retain the existing level of employment and preconditions for job creation. What black new jobs, when over 100,000 people lost their jobs in this sector? The fifth goal was to encourage economic development in the Republic of Serbia. You know that there is a negative economic growth in the country in all sectors, including in the construction sectors. Therefore, none of these objectives which have been outlined in the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry for the previous two years have been achieved. Then tell me, what guarantees do we have that will be achieved in the next two years? I mean nothing, but we accept your argument that the only reason for the extension is the completion of the objects that have begun. It must be a much greater shame that what started now is going down than that this law has an extended fact and that additional money is being found so that the facilities are finished. I understand that, but we don't understand why it was put on for two years. If, as you said yourself, some objects are finished with 70, 80% or 50%, it's quite enough time for them to be completed completely in a year and then we end up with this law for one simple reason. Because he suspended public procurement and because it was agreed in four about what the project would be worth and who would get the job. The job was given to companies that were, of course, close or directly party companies from the previous government, which guarantees us that there was no fair business. You have said here little that there will be no opening of new jobs under this law, but we would like it much more in the bill of law that you delivered to us in addition to the deadline supported on 2014, we have proposed, by amendment, that it should be by the end of 2013, considering that it is a reasonable time, that you have put another member, that there will be no new projects under this law. We can thus extend to indefinitely, if there are new projects, then 2014 will be said, we are not finished, so we will extend to 2015 and so on forever. I think we should put an end to that, as it is important that we know what effect this law had. It is very important for us to know how many objects were started from the pairs given by the state under this law, to which the degree of construction is they today and how much it cost the state, or how much the state currently owes for those facilities, how much it has not paid what it is due to pay. So without an analysis of the effects of the law and without this data on these facilities and debts, the DSS cannot support this law. We understand that the facilities should be completed, but we are asking for guarantees, that the amendment committee should be introduced that there will be no new projects, and secondly that they will be completed, that this law lasts until 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8150	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8151	Mr. MP, you've asked very good questions and I said there will be no new projects without public procurement, which is really incorrect to be, but I repeat, it's started and it has to be over. It is true that construction has fired many people precisely because the projects they have done have been paid. Currently, two and a half billion dinars are owed according to the situations that have arrived. So we thought it couldn't be done in a year because the total project was somewhere around 20 billion, so, as it all ends up, settles, puts it in order, makes access to traffic, land editing, etc., it can't all be done in one year, it's still big figures. We left it to be comfortable so it can be transferred if it gets stuck in the next year, but I repeat, and some new projects won't work. I'm sorry if no one gave the amendment to that, we could have limited it, which I don't think any problem with, and that would have been accepted by the government. I did criticise the litter of corruption, it was divided without anything, it just finds Pera Ziku and says go to the stadium, it works the hall, it works the pool, and it was like that, but we have to pay it, because we've brought the builders into a difficult position now. People haven't been getting paid in months, and we have to pay them off, and we have to finish, that's the point. So we can't leave now, say, a stadium in Nis in half, they'll start the same stadium and in another town that's half finished, the stands are done, the half is not, the skeletons are standing and the games are playing. The kids are coming. Is someone supposed to get hurt? It can't stand like that. A sports hall made up to half and I don't count anymore. So all this has to end. So, I totally agree with you, but we've started to finish, and it doesn't matter what it was, someone wants to question, investigate, but it's ours to finish, and it's just that the money that's spent doesn't fail, that's the point. Therefore, I agree that it was not in the best order, and that is why I criticized it because it was not a closed financial structure. Now this year I've been looking for a position in the budget, so I can do something, I need to have the budget position you're voting here. I can't promise that something will end, and I don't have a position, I don't have a dinar for how I can end it. We're not insecure people to talk fairy tales and say it'll be okay, we'll finish up and come after you and you tell me you're not ashamed, you haven't touched anything, and I'm telling you there's not a single penny in that position. So this year the means are defined to put it in order. We couldn't put everything in one year, pay the debt from the previous years and end it, but that's why we left it to be a little comfortable. If there's a more comfortable situation, through some rebalancing to secure the money and get it over with, we'll end it all. If not then, it may be a month or some payment in the People's Year so we don't go to parliament again and pass laws. Now, I agree with you, and that's why I'm glad that one of these great discussions will be, to clarify some of the facts that have been presented and that are undeniable. I'm not saying it's great, but I'm saying we have to finish. For example, in your town, there'll be a mockery if the job isn't done, right? So we have to finish it, we can't start a new investment, but we have to finish this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8152	Mr. Lapchev, I'm the only one who can tell you something. So your questions were quite clear, the minister gave a clear answer. I don't think you have a basis, but please take a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8153	Thank you, General. So I understand you, Mr. Ilic, completely, of course, that no one is against the fact that what has begun doesn't end and I said in my debate that we support that position of yours. But I wanted to hear from you and whether the ministry was going to do something about researching the legality of the approval of projects, the height and the price of investment in these projects, these were the contracting authorities, or who the contractors were, under what conditions these contractors were selected and what their ties were to the parties that were then in power. That's a very important question. Of course, that every project that's been launched and stadium in Nis, hall in Književec and anywhere, it's nothing controversial. It is very important to us, since you said there will be no new projects under this law, or without public procurement, then I ask that the Committee or you, as Minister, submit an amendment to Article 5 which is deleted, or suspended, from public procurement. Under the previous law, it was agreed between the job orderers, or those in power, usually the minister in the previous meeting was Mr Dulic and a similar contractor. A similar contractor was the one who mastered some criteria and was ordered by the party in power to do the project, and then negotiated in four eyes how much it would cost. Who's going to convince me there was no malfeasance? Then why are we 87 places of corruption in the world, among other things, and for that. So when Article 5 of this law is kicked out, then we can understand your good intentions that the projects that have been completed and opened will be some new, but according to legal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8154	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8155	As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to suggest this, and I hope we agree on that. Secondly, I agree with you that some objects have been built that may not have been necessary. In times of crisis, it's the most necessary thing to do. So you know about you, for example. You have a rink where there are hundreds of people without a roof over their heads, or that settlement is threatened, maybe it was more than that? Maybe it was more likely to finish up the flats for the poor, for single mothers, for the disabled, and maybe it was faster than doing a pool, etc. But someone chose it that way and it was done that way. I wasn't involved, I was criticizing it, but I have to finish it. We all have to end it regardless, and I can't say what it is. It may have been a more needed cargo centre, food warehouses, PAK centres, aid for agriculture, a number of other projects could have been done by construction that were necessary and that bring profit and will pay for themselves. Luxury is done when there's money, and in crisis years it's done what's most necessary. Someone started, let it not go to waste, to save what can be saved, and also to the builders to pay. Believe me, if we don't pay 2.5 billion, over 50 construction firms in Serbia are going to total ruin. They're waiting like a cold sun to make this worth their while. If we don't pass this law, next year we can't pay them a dollar. In January, maybe everything doesn't get paid now, I'll try New Year's Eve to get this 2.5 billion to pay for it. The situation is clear. As far as the situation is concerned, everything is orderly, signed, certified and trusted. Who ordered them and who, if you're interested in it, I can get copies, exactly what companies they are, I can share with you, which companies in which city they've done, how many jobs, who owns the company, and if you're interested, I can share it with you, and you can take it from the situations exactly who the performers are.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8156	Mr. Lapchevich, are we done here?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8157	I'm done. I'll be very brief. I said it is not disputed to support that the story should be finished by the end, as I think it is not disputed and that if new jobs are opened under this law, they must be made public procurement, which will be almost adopted, but it is also very important for me to say whether you as Minister will do something about your predecessor's responsibility to take over the budget items allowed. A month ago, Minister Dinkic said two months ago that the Ministry of Environment and Business Planning had taken over the commitments and agreed to deal three times as much as was foreseen in the budget. Now you must, as his successor, carry it out and pay, even though the budget has not authorized him to do so, nor has he been allowed to negotiate beyond what is allowed by the budget. There must be a specific responsibility for that. That's the responsibility someone has to start. If you suffer damage and have a headache about how you're going to pay for it, it's probably logical to start that responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8158	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8159	I don't want to do that, and I don't want to run anything against anyone. I've never sued anyone in my life, and I don't want to do it now, or initiate a criminal procedure, etc. If there's anything illegal, we have certain institutions in the state, budget inspections, state review committees that need to do this, control it. As far as I'm concerned, what I said, I have to finish and I have to pay, because people are coming to me. All these companies come to me, workers come before the government, I get a precedent every day when I get 50 from various companies and say – we don't have bread to eat, we haven't received a salary. You've seen, every day someone comes, we have to pay for it. We need to be a serious state, no matter what anyone owes, the state is obliged to regulate it if someone as a member of the government signed anything. It's our responsibility. I don't want us to get into court to block our accounts, and if someone takes it off with some interest, we'd better settle down and settle it nicely, because people have done it right, that ceramic guy isn't guilty, or the plumber or the rest of them, they've worked and they have to be paid, and that's the essence of the whole story. So we'll finish it. As for any responsibility, I don't do it, let certain services do it, if someone did something wrong, he'll answer, if anyone thinks it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8160	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8161	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers, I look forward to the ministry under the command of Mr. Ilic and the Government, to the satisfaction of all the searchers of funds, perhaps from last year, this year, for Christmas and that Christmas will be celebrated in their home in the best way and welcome New Year. Yes, the minister is right, what has been done, it must be paid regardless of which government has scheduled these papers and signed the contracts. There's another problem here. There's no problem here in Minister Ilic, nor in his ministry. Here is the problem of the lack of the development strategy of the Ministry of Economy, Economy, Finance and it affects directly Mr. Ilic and the Ministry of Transport, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because everything that is signed and done and if the funds are provided, there will be no problem, they are capable people, they will carry out these jobs and arrange them. I'd like to draw your attention to something else that no one has spoken of. We argue whether it will be paid, whether it will be public procurement, and what has been done, should end normally. All that's done is done and everything that's agreed, and I guess what's not done, that it's agreed and there won't be any new deals. On the contrary, only work will continue, financial commitments will be made to the contractors and further work will be carried out. Now there's another problem. You know that the Belgrade Arena is a loss, the Red Star is a loss, everyone is a loss, and we are going to make new stadiums, new arenas, new halls. So, excuse me, I propose to Mr. Ilic and the Government, give these facilities priorities to build unmade factories, if at all there are, unbuilt factory halls, not built hospitals, children's kindergartens, schools, put on that sphere, that is what is necessary, it should be the government's priority and the priority of the ministry managed by Mr. Ilic and his associates. As for how to accelerate production, which is also the theme of today's Assembly, sessions, how to accelerate the production of construction materials, in general construction operations, I can tell you right away, that in the countries of the former Soviet Union, labour deficits are 2.5 million people. I recently had the honour of being in a delegation with Mr. Ilic in Minsk, and with Mr. Gojko Radic, until yesterday's colleague and we were told that in Belarus there is a deficit of construction workers, a deficit of construction materials, because only Belarus exports about 15 billion building materials annually, and that is the country in sanctions. Pay attention to that. We have no sanctions today, no one is defending us, it would be said that we have a more favourable position, than the Republic of Belarus has and we are not in a position to export, or we still cannot supply our own market. The second thing, it sounded like a few words here – let's get ready before the construction season starts. My people, in these countries, work alone in Siberia and work today many of our citizens, our environment, there is no more season, what season? What's terrible is that it's snowed and covered the hill and almost, no season, people are doing minus 35, and we've never had it in Serbia, nor will we ever have it. So, Mr. Minister, don't speak at all or let anyone tell you that we need to prepare ourselves. The preparations should start yesterday. The season should be every day. Every day, the construction season. Normally, when it comes to land conversion, it's a two-strike sword. At least those people, companies that bought companies, should be charged to train them for further production, not to fire workers to tear down buildings and factory halls and to have some new residential buildings there. We also have such land, building land, where, simply, there's nothing but maybe a few old scavengers, private houses. That's what you need to see, even though the law is passed, you need to think about it. You need to think about how to fix it, because never forget, the only good that's not produced, it's the country. The country's only wealth, as a colleague from the SDP has said before, is the only wealth that local self-government, cities, municipalities and our country have. Therefore, there is one proposal that I was still making in 2004 and persistently defended in 2005 by supporting the maximum DS in the city's parliament. The proposal is simple and simple, it's done by all the big cities, it's done by all the countries in the world, it's done by smaller cities. The state invested in infrastructure, local self-government invested in infrastructure, whose assets? They're investing funds from the budget. Let's make it possible for these cities, local self-government, to recover some of the funds. How do they get a piece of the money back? In what way? So let the state evaluate the i.e. local self-government or the city of Belgrade. Let them assess the value of the assets invested in the infrastructure. Let's say it's 30%, and some country. urban self-government, local self-government, should become co-owners of built, huge supermarkets, huge objects that serve exclusively, not for the creation of new goods, that's all upgrades, that's spending. Why don't you, well, there's people everywhere, my people, and what do we get? This gives us a charge of these local and city budgets, or the budgets of local self-government. I'm getting an extra budget charge. They're getting out-of-age funds, and they're gonna be conflicters 30% always, magnificent objects like we have today, Vero and Nova, so I don't want to pick up more, many big objects. So, when it comes to corruption, normally we almost all agree on it equally, but it is so simple to root out, at least in this part of construction and I deeply believe that Minister Ilic will do so and will work on it. What's that? If local self-government already participates with 30% ownership in the construction of a new construction facility, then that local self-government will be required to chase all building permits down to that first cornerstone. So, the investor will never meet any man on the counter, he'll never know the minister, he'll never know that local sheriff, no one. He will simply access construction and operations. That way, there will be no more corruption. It is an old saying. He who works with honey is very good at it. Therefore, it should be taken away from the right to local self-government. That's 30 percent of what they're talking about. As far as these pessimistic statements are concerned, what to do, how, whether to help construction and whether there will be selecting, and even more so sounded by individual fellow MPs, that the market in the area of construction is reportedly closed. I would say, not that it's closed, but the open market has destroyed the state, or if you want social, private companies, construction companies in Serbia. That's why we don't have any strong construction companies today. When I heard earlier that the Energy Project was proud of getting a 50m-euro job, it's embarrassing, I'm telling you. What's for one Energy Project, a big, powerful, energy project, 50 million euros? First, such companies as the Energy Project, Forward, and other large companies, I would never give a chance to work in my country. There's a market abroad, they have a name, they're famous, they have a brand, and they've never had contracts below 500m euros, 500m dollars. What's going on now? So what's Serbia's small and medium-sized business gonna do? Will he exist at all if this big business takes over some of the work that exists in Serbia? Mr. Minister, ask the Government, ask the Ministry of Finance and Economy, economy, development, to provide guarantees for advances to construction companies abroad. You've contracted $12 billion in construction work abroad today. I want you all to hear it here. Twelve billion dollars in contracts. Therefore, you should not be overcome by pessimism. I'm saying this first of all, I haven't said this before, because of the citizens. We should watch the bucket. People, there are jobs, you understand when I tell you that there are two and a half million deficit jobs in the area of construction, so what is 150,000 unemployed people? It's nothing. Especially in those countries that are friendly towards the country of Serbia. Request that those benefits, they're not benefits, it's work. Let the state provide guarantees for participation in tenders, let the state provide guarantees. I guarantee you, I can guarantee and I will give you a ride, I will ask for a special reception with you, Mr. Minister and Minister Dinkic. Two hundred million euros should provide guarantees, in order to have a five-billion-euro job for the next two years and to employ 100,000 workers, only in three countries, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. I say it in public, all citizens listen to me, 10 million people, you listen to me, and you can always call on my words. I'm ready, Mr. Minister, to come along with you, and to realize part of that job, to help as much as I can, which you started in Belarus and Russia last time. We have another very important thing. That construction material production can't be clear to me at all. The average salary in Russia is $2,000. In Serbia, it's 300 euros, sometimes it's $500, $450. Please, we're super competitive, what are we talking about? If our engineer goes to work, I pay for the engineer, I pay for Russia's Russians, 20,000 dollars. Our Serb works maximum for $5,000, has an apartment and food, etc. So we're not being competitive, hypercompetitive. My dear friends, colleagues and colleagues, head upstairs, you don't need to be worried. It's a big chance. As far as the law is concerned, it is normal that the Serbian Force Movement, Bogoljub Karic and our SNS parliamentary group, will support the law. I've told Mr. Ilic before to give him a little encouragement, because there's always some attacks, some stings, even though he doesn't need help, he's a man capable of defending himself. It's better to go forward and like a turtle, but go ahead, than go back, at least one step. Please keep that in mind, and please, the opposition, the constructive opposition, you don't differ much from us. You're here too, it's okay, you should criticise us, you should also get personal affirmation, personal and affirmation of your parties, for some future. Anyway, you should know one thing. Perspective exists, optimism is justified, whoever works and whoever moves forward, to repeat as a turtle, it will reach its goal. If you're just braked and going back and looking for hair in an egg, simply, I'd like to break that controversy, that was two hours of lost time, which was who was doing what was four years ago, five years ago. Objects must be completed. Priority must have objects that are extremely important. I'd like to mention one more thing that's important to all of you, not just my peers sitting in this room. You'll come to my age soon, and you have comrades in your ranks and older than me. I even think I'm a console here in the congregation if we have a lot older than me. The clinic center should be completed. Twenty years to keep the sick and the sick safe. Mr. Secretary, put an accent on that and it'll be fine. Thank you and forgive me for such a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8162	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Minister, I have the impression that four laws have been joined here to mask what it is that brings us the Law on Planning and Construction. I'll only talk about the Law of Planning and Construction. The Law on Planning and Construction is the third law in a series proposed and adopted by the ruling majority, which absolutely paints the new government policy. The first law was amnesty. The second law was the Criminal Code, which eases prison sentences, which eases criminal policy and provides for parole after two-thirds of the fines and allows for the legal mitigation of penalties for paedophiles and rapists. The third law is the Law on Planning and Construction, which abolishes land conversion for certain categories of people in our country. For the first two laws I've listed, we know exactly who they're hitting. I'm asking a question from the Minister to whom does this Law of Planning and Construction suit? Who are you to tell us by name and last name, waiting for them to file for a building permit, and they won't pay for the conversion? This Law on Planning and Construction introduces discrimination between different categories of population. The conversion is forgiven over the next 12 months, i.e. they do not have to pay for land conversion only by those who have privatised enterprises in recent years in Serbia, and all others who have acquired land, according to the laws applicable to land planning before 2003, they still have to pay for land conversion. So we have completely different categories of population in this law. Can the minister explain to us why Article 104 remains and says all those who, by decision of a competent authority, have acquired land, have to pay the conversion to build, and those who bought the company in privatisation, we know at what prices they bought, do not have to pay the land conversion? Not only is discrimination being introduced, this law deepens the injustice in our society. We all know that the privatisation process was necessary and we know that the privatisation process has caused injustice to the citizens of our country. The introduction of a conversion was an attempt to ease this injustice. That's why I'm going to explain to the citizens, and I think that's what the SNS colleagues should hear. A short time ago, counterpart Karic discussed the issue of disagreeing with these amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, which means that the SNS may not vote for this law. So, this law, proposed by Minister Ilic, those who bought the company in privatisation cheaper, or less money than the land price, the value of land used by the company, by conversion, had to pay the difference. Now the legal obligation to pay for the difference is lifted. So it's very simple for the Law on Planning and Construction to suggest nothing else. There is only one member's change, which is if someone bought a factory or a company for 100,000 euros, and the value of the land used by the company is one million euros, according to our law, which has introduced the conversion, had to pay 900 thousand euros, so the difference, that is, that land, if it wants to build on it, is acquired at market price. Minister Ilic says you don't have to pay the difference now, it doesn't matter how much you're for. If you've privatized the company for a single dinar, and there are acres of land, you can build on that land of apartments. It's okay, you fired the workers, you don't do any more of the production that this company did and you privatize, you can build apartments and you don't have to pay the value of the land. Minister, this is about injustice. Someone can build a wall when they acquire land by buying that land at market price, and those who privatise the company, they don't have to pay at market price. What's the problem? Why are you doing this now? What's the problem is that you can't handle one legal standard that says that all those who bought cheaper than the value of the land have to pay to the land price. Once again, I ask you, for whom is this law made? If you've done an analysis, and I think one of these big decisions if you're making it, you have to make it after the analysis, you must know very well who it is you were supposed to pay for the land conversion. Give us names and let the citizens know who's gonna profit from this bill. I ask the question to other parliamentary groups from the ruling coalition – do you really support that someone for one dinar acquires land and can build on that land as if it were his private property? So the DS can't support the law that introduces self and injustice into our society. This law is deeply unfair. It is a political decision by the government that has neither a valid explanation nor a valid analysis precedes it. All that we heard today, which is that foreign investors can't build for God's sake, it's just not true. What are these foreign investors who privatised businesses in Serbia cheaper than the market value of land? I repeat once again, the one who paid in privatisation the price of privatisation, the price is recognised during the conversion of land. So if you paid a million euros, you'll be recognised a million euros, if the land is worth more than a million euros, you have to pay the difference. Why are you now pushing millions of euros into this law for various people who have privatised companies, destroyed these companies and allowed them to build by making free land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8164	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8165	I'll list some. For example, the Agricultural Association "Slog" near Kaq, the suburb of Novi Sad, the mayor of Novi Sad and the minister of agriculture made your member buy an entire estate of 500 hectares, to raise from the mud an agricultural cooperative, which you translated into a small town building door, resold and earned 300m euros. Is that fair to you? Is it fair that this pasture at the temple of St. Sava, which you sold as a pasture, to feed the party sheep? Is that good? There are a number of other projects that I don't want to list for you right now. Here, I've listed two of you. If you're interested, I'll be here all day. The fact that you're defending the most vulnerable, they don't pay for conversion. You know none of those little ones paid for a dinar conversion. It's a free conversion, translation, tax pay. You can't talk about conversion. If Belgrade, the city for 2.5 million citizens, did during your four-year term just one conversion, is that the future of Belgrade? One conversion and one object regular, and everything else you've done is irregular. Don't let me tell you who did everything. It would take me two days to sit here in Parliament. I certainly didn't buy anything. Mr. Konstantinovic, don't ask me to recite here day and night and hold these people. If you need to, ask around.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8166	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8167	Dear Ministers, apropo pastures and fields, you as a resolute minister who is in charge of the stalemate of immovableity, you might know that as pastures and fields, in that catastro you edit and edit when you were formerly a minister, that's how it's done. Why is it running, it's more a question to you than it is to me. I guess you could change that into city building land. Another thing, tell us the names of the ones you've made possible by this law to build free of charge on land that they haven't paid at market value, give us names, tell us. You've been doing an analysis, who's going to take it tomorrow, when this bill is passed, building permit and without paying for the conversion, by making the company one dinar or 1,000 euros, able to build on hectares of land? It is certain that you, as a competent minister, have insight into this and that you have such information. Feel free to say those names that citizens know who wins and who earns by passing one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8168	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8169	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, if this is a law that needs to be decommissioned over 100 investments worth more than two billion euros, I don't think there's any need to discuss it further, but to support it. Today, it is shown that the law on planning and construction always causes controversy that is extremely dynamic, because this is one law that is alive and whose benefits or disadvantages can only be felt when it starts to apply. This law represents a delay in the conversion to the adoption of a new law on planning and construction that has been announced today, to my joy. Today is not about whether the conversion is needed or not. The theme is how to help something that's stalled. I want to stress as someone who comes from an undeveloped community that self-conversion is really a problem on the ground. Two demands per member have been filed in my municipality so far. One's from 2010 and it hasn't been solved yet. It's very difficult to carry out, we don't have a republican defence in such municipalities, and a lot of it comes down to correspondence. I think it's something to think about and talk about. What she would pay more attention to is an announcement that there will be a new law on planning and construction. Not to be false enthusiasts here, I don't expect the law to be perfect, because like I said, every law, especially when it comes to this matter, it best shows what it's like when it starts to apply. The truth is, the previous law had a lot of segments that regulated it by sublaws. What I want you to appeal is for special attention to be paid to economic facilities in the new planning and construction law. Because, for example, In rural areas, a good part of the construction of economic facilities is defined, in addition to the law, by the rules on animal health conditions on livestock farming and keeping. I think on the one hand, when we're all talking about the survival of the village and rural development, we should pay some attention to that. I'm not just saying this, I think the minister has a lot of feelings for such areas, and I urge these demands to be applied and agreed somewhere. I also stress that if these laws are to lead to the launch of an investment cycle, it should be supported as a change. What I would like to appeal to is that, through the new law on planning and construction, unnecessary bureaucratic procedures should be abolished. As someone who has run the community sector in time, which was related to urbanism and construction, I will also take advantage of the opportunity to point out problems relating to a number of subjects to be asked and whose consent should be obtained in order to issue a building permit. First of all, I mean the consent that is obtained from public enterprises and I appeal to find a way to sanction those companies that do not give consent within a certain period because there were public undertakings that give consent within 15 days, but also those that do not respond and for many months at the request. That's why I think we as a state have a problem in issuing building permits on average for 279 days. I think it would be a success if we could bring it down to 90 days. It should also be considered whether the silence of the administration means approval and penalties should be imposed on state authorities which do not issue a licence. Once again, I am glad to hear that we will get a new law on planning and construction, we need to support that change, because we need to give opportunity to all those who are currently in stasis. It is unfortunate that the construction season in Serbia lasts six months and obtaining a permit of 280 days, but only together and with concrete work can we lead to improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8170	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8171	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP cannot support amendments to the law, popularly called aid to the construction industry, because this extends the period of validity of this law for the next two years. Just the explanation we have received does not contain the basic elements that such a change of law will be on today's agenda. You, Minister, have not answered the question of the LDP MP. I believe that after my presentation, you will respond, what are the funds of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia provided for next year for the implementation of this law? You said you had two and a half billion inheritance debts. This is due to the end of the situation for the work already completed and that you will pay off those debts, you will make an effort by the end of this year, possibly in January of next year. As MPs, we have no possibility or knowledge that all projects are approved by previous ministers and previous ministries, at which stage they are and how much money is needed to complete the projects already launched. I don't think you're in an envious situation, because you have to pay for your inherited debts. There is one big difference between the projects launched and the funds provided in the Republic's budget for next year. Today you said that new jobs under this law will not begin while I'm a minister, I quote you this because I wrote it down. In the afternoon debate, you said there would be no new tenders without public procurement. I'd like you to tell us if there will be new tenders, whether there will be new projects for local self-government, or if this is just about the completion of the projects that have been launched? I'm saying this because this law promotes corruption and you know it very well, because you didn't vote when such a law was passed in parliament, when you were a MP. Without a tender, without competition, you simply have a deal between whoever's conducting it, I can't say public procurement, because it's a deal between who's going to perform the works and the president of the municipality, which is in the largest number of cases. You said yourself, and many MPs, this has not been achieved by the development of the construction industry because the construction industry today and a year ago has fewer workers. In the light of the law, you said the law should be extended because next year we are expected to continue to have an economic crisis, so that it should be extended for the next year, and it is practically extended over the next two years. Please answer me if there will be any new projects, or not? How much funds are defined by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the following year, since you remain in debt to answer that question? As for the Law on Planning and Construction, we cannot really support the amendment of one attitude, one member of the Law on Planning and Construction. You will agree that the Law on Planning and Construction is a system law and that it is necessary to suffer a large number of changes in order to be applicable in practice. In fact, you said that by changing this, you would have investments worth about two billion euros and one hundred investments by abolishing the conversion, but you might think so. But when an investor comes to a counter in the administration or in the city administration, he still faces bureaucracy there. No wonder we're in the last place by issuing construction permits, because the law we currently have in use is very bad. What you didn't say, Mr. Minister, and I think you had to say, is that on 6 December this year, the Constitutional Court declared the non-constitutional provisions. 185-200. The Law on Planning and Construction, which concerns legalisation and that the Constitutional Court of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given you a six-month deadline, that it will issue a verdict after six months to give you a deadline to bring the Public Procurement Act into line. When you make changes to the law, since you said it would be in the assembly procedure, and it must be done by the end of March, you must take care of the way the location permits are issued. Although the current law says it's all about investor spending, that the government's body is working, it's not like that in practice. Investors have to ask for consent. You have to take care of what the department workers do when they're handling second-degree complaints, because many complaints wait a few years, in your district departments, which in Zajecar, which in other areas. You have to take care of it when you change the law what about inspection supervision of law enforcement. I'd just say two sentences about the third law, which applies to ports. We find it really unnecessary to abolish the Waterway Directorate. We don't think it's doing any kind of rationalization... (President: Mrs. Gerov, you've run out of time for the parliamentary group. Let me just finish my sentence. Since we have an agreement law with BiH, when will we get agreements with other countries, how could one of the pre-election promises be fulfilled, which is the channel to Thessaloniki? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8172	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8173	In addition to what my esteemed colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Milicevic and Mr Petronijevic have pointed out, I will point out a few more reasons for which I believe the reasons that are being brought here by any of us will not be in doubt, and in any case, they justify the very changes to the laws that have been proposed. Here I will refer exclusively to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. Why? Because this change applies not only to tycoons, as it has been pointed out here many times today, but also to security builders and safe investors and healthy investments. That is exactly how they will be relaxed and happy with this way of amending the Law on Planning and Construction. It is doubtless and it should be clear to the citizens that this so-called The conversion suspension lasts exactly how long it will take to draw up a new law on planning and construction. What I find useful and that this is even a well-intentioned suggestion is that this future law on planning and construction is clearly differentiated from the Law on Public Property, precisely because of the conversion, i.e. because the conversion converts the right to use into property rights. Dear Ministers, it is necessary to make it very clear that citizens recognize what is essential, which is that the conversion was a brake or a blocker of building regulation in its application. I will never question the legislator's motive in any convocation, both in this and in the previous and future, to bring as good as possible and as good as possible. Thus, the method of systemizing conversion must have been positive. In practice, however, the conversion proved in the opposite sense and in the opposite direction. Why? There are two simple reasons, if not even three. The first reason is that conversion is one so-called. A previous question. It prejudges the process of building rights, because until a conversion solution is adopted, it is not possible to issue a local permit, it is not possible to issue a decision on the approval of construction or construction permit, it is not possible to issue a solution on the use of the permit. What does that mean? It means tying the hands of those who have the right to build. It is not only those who are legitimate in Article 103, paragraph 1, and I will say something about them a little later, but also their legal followers or sticklers. They've got their hands tied for two reasons. The first reason is that the conversion process is mainly in administrative terms complicated. The other reason is because it's expensive. Why is it expensive? Because the conversion is carried out, as the law says, in accordance with market criteria, and we know in practice that these market criteria are linked to the parameters provided by the tax administration. What should those builders and those investors who are not paid to provide money to pay off such market amounts, how much conversions in practice are worth? The banks can't help it. Credit lines are simply not possible because conversion is not a legal basis for the issue of any form of credited amounts, i.e. the transfer of credit funds. What are we going to do in a situation where we have a bankruptcy company, a privatisation company or, worse still, a company in the restructuring process, which from its own resources, which are and how small, is trying to provide money for conversions that are and how expensive? I can't help but think that the conversion didn't justify its purpose and that it didn't justify its purpose. That's why it really needs to be deleted from the law. Today, based on the exposure I've heard here, there's a dilemma. More controversy has been created in the heads of certain MPs, alleged discrimination. It is said, "What should we do with those who have already paid or started paying for some amounts of conversion in relation to those who now appear before the law and have been released, so they are considered to have some kind of benefit?" But, Reverend Minister, somewhere it had to be cut, somewhere it had to be drawn a line and simply proceed to the path of healing the construction operation. Why? Because every day a construction company goes bankrupt, because it is unable to be engaged, it is not able to engage its machinery, it is unable to employ its people. What does that mean? This means that a large number of construction workers are out of work. The bankruptcy of the bearer's consequences. Thus, there is no payment of pension and disability insurance in the budget. Is that a budget damage? No doubt it is. No one who is seriously involved in the analysis of these facts has touched them, and these facts cannot really be questioned, because they are exactly what they are. What does it matter after all this? It is important to speed up the adoption of a new law on planning and construction. I hope that you will make your maximum contribution to making this future law of planning and construction far more quality than this. There is no ideal law. The legislative process is a lasting process in which it must always seek to pass as high-quality laws as possible. As I said earlier, why the differentiation from the Public Property Act? It is precisely because certain provisions of the Law on Public Property have already defined a question relating to the transfer of rights of use in the transfer of property rights. We specifically in Uzic have problems in bankruptcy related to conversions. Companies which by the bankruptcy manager, which are bankrupt companies, have the legitimacy of bankruptcy debtors and by the bankruptcy manager, there is an exceptional effort to make the bankruptcy mass more valuable in some way, as otherwise the law provides for the return to bankruptcy of the entire assets, which by law should be returned to bankruptcy, mainly the value of the bankruptcy and is significantly reduced, precisely because of the attempt to convert and precisely because of the attempt to sell later, in accordance with the provisions of the Bank Act, the value of assets as a legal person, increases. All of what I've said, it certainly indicates that you've done exactly as you predicted a legal solution, done what was meant to be done, in my opinion significantly earlier, but it's not too late now either. Once again, I urge that as soon as possible and as soon as possible by passing a new law on planning and building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8174	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8175	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representation, the President, Mr. Ilic, the Government's representatives, I must at first express my dissatisfaction, because you have placed several laws in this agenda that do not have any touch points. I would ask someone to explain – what kind of touch points does construction and sailing have? You're continuing that system that worked for the previous government. In that context, I ask you to take care of some of the agendas in the future. I will focus on the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of Construction Industry in Serbia, when it comes to this point of the agenda. This law, if you know well, has been pompously announced by the then Minister, Mr Dulic, who, among other things, said that the aim of this law is to overcome the negative effects in the construction industry sector, as well as to provide liquidity in this sector. But has this goal been achieved? The Union notice of employers and in construction, which produces construction material and which deals with construction operations, shall deny these objectives. They say in their statement that at this point we have 8,926 companies dealing with construction operations, and 24% are in bankruptcy, or have a temporary labour ban. Also, they say that from April to today, 2.539 companies dealing with this problem have been shut down and that, as you said, about 100 jobs have been lost last year and the fourth generation of enterprises dealing with this branch is slowly shutting down. So the devastating effects of this law. I must point out that many NGOs, before this law was passed, have criticised this law, among other things, and the Anti-Corruption Council. I would point out that this law has been passed by a very close majority here in the Assembly. They pointed out that this law is unconstitutional, that there are many anomalies and that there will be great abuses. Some have said this is a "lex specialis", a special law and that it is not in line with the Public Procurement Act. Also, many political options, among other things, and yours, Mr. Ilic, as well as the political options that are in power, and they came to power by criticising this law, talked about a famous member of the 5th law, which, above all, led to a negotiation process, and without the call of a public tender, a public advert, could already be negotiated by a free contract on a project. I have one more thing to point out, this controversial law has brought a lot of illogicalities to the bar. A lot of things have been abused at the bar. Local sheriffs set themselves certain projects, to provide for themselves, or clients with material gain, and thus promote themselves. This law made it possible for us, Mr. Minister, that we had just learned that our former mayor's village was the most sunny village in Jablani County, and that the village had to be built by a photovoltaic power plant, and that the property of his uncle was the most expensive property in Jablani County, even 17 times more expensive than the market price estimated in the same category of land. This costs us citizens of Leskovci and Serbian citizens, you will not believe, four million euros and is not in the Elektroprivreda system. It's not finished yet, and it's not in the Elektroprivreda system. The strength is one megawatt and can supply electricity to only 500 households. And here you can see what projects have been implemented and done in the previous period. This law is, if you'll let me say, a campaign law, where one political option has allowed itself to make one of these laws, to prepare for previous elections, and it should be called the right name. What I also wanted to point out, the DSS disagrees when it comes to this law. We even criticized him when he was brought here in the Assembly. We said there would be many abuses. This law was passed in 2010 and this is the second amendment to this law. We're not criticizing everything, we're also giving some constructive things. We say that this problem of construction should be solved in one system way, among other things, we propose that in this debate we think publicly, that it be abolished or reduced to construction material, and that it enables our construction companies, construction operations, to make buildings much cheaper, and that these facilities would be much more competitive on the market, on the selective market and square apartments would be much cheaper. What I want to ask you in the end, Mr. Minister, since I see that the law has been extended for another two years, and we have been given an explanation that this is because of the projects that have been launched, I wanted to ask you another question – have you looked at the new Public Procurement Act? We heard from an MP group that the law on public procurement will soon reach the National Assembly. Don't let this law, which we now pass, be in collegiate with that law. It's a simple question, and I want you to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8176	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8177	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Minister of Traffic here to give us a little explanation of this shipping law. I'm absolutely sure he's not in some Grand Parade, but he's probably with a shovel somewhere and he's draining these people in Banat. I believe they no longer have tanks to go out to support the roads. Do you, Mr. Ilichu, speak to him? He's like Dulett Mufta's traffic college is over. Ask him – how is it possible that a tank has to come out to drain buried cars in Serbia, while the whole of Hungary is passing? I see that some are nervous and talk – the subject. Here's the theme. Speaking of topics – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. The proposal says the law will apply within 12 months of the date of entry into force. Mr. Ilic, I ask you, because I respect you very much as an experienced politician, we've known each other for 20, 22, 23 years, you've been here in politics, you have a rich experience -- do you really think you'll wait until June to propose this law to this House, as a minister, and that this government will survive? None of your MPs believe that. This government is facing a fall, because Alexander Vukic will want to capitalize this advantage he's doing, and then what's going to happen? Then we'll have an election somewhere in June, maybe in September, which is even worse... (President: Mr. Milivojevic, please leave the election and return to the law. Mr. Arsenović, let me explain. If this law is delayed for 12 months and imagine now that we have elections in September, and we know how long the government is formed in Serbia and in December which month will the law be valid? This one of only 12 months, some people are going to use free conversion rights and then what? Some new government needs to pass some new law or bring back the old one. There's a rabbit in that bush. There, these financiers, who are life-interested, will build without conversion, to help any government that will extend the law, only for 12 months, not 24. Otherwise, if it were 24, so it doesn't matter, then they don't have to do much to help any of the political parties that let them do this. Now I'm going to talk about the second law. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the global economic crisis. Let's see what the explanation says first. During its validity, says Minister Ilic, the law has produced good results, and I am undermining good results. It's a very important sentence. It says -- the construction industry, as an important business branch, has seen a slight growth this year. The fundamental intensity of the law was to contribute to the preservation of jobs in the context of the negative effects of the global economic crisis, to the employment of domestic construction operations, etc. All the best of the law. Now I'm going to tell you one very interesting thing, because I heard from a colleague in the debate that obviously many people here have a clear conscience just because they have a bad memory. When you have a bad memory, then your conscience is very clear here's what's being said about this same law, and that's what we've been listening to, Mr. Arsenović, and you and I, in this room, because we were the ruling majority back then. "Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected everything, but to see such a law appear in the procedure, it's a big surprise to us. That in the 21st century, after so many European laws, you're pushing us now to have someone who can make deals, make deals. Who was the one who could have done it in the current government? There's nothing to build. The construction season is over, and we're passing the law now. Annual vacations pass, autumn comes and the construction season is over. So you have to be very clear, very specific, just smile, but we can't talk in Parliament, people will get a job. Do you know that information? We'll do business like this, we'll speed up work, we'll hire people. "Minister Ilic, that's what MP Velimir Ilic from New Serbia said. Do you know him? I see that when you come to Belgrade, this Belgrade smog opens up all the pores and immediately spreads its views and you see in power what you did not see as an opposition. I ask you -- how will my political friend, I see that he is here in the hall, Mr Markicevic, to vote for this law that he said: "Today we are passing a mob law. This is not a European law, it's a mob law. "Now tell us, was that a good law for you? Now we're in power to extend it a little bit, but the DS knew how laws were passed. So there's here in the steongraphic library as many notes as you want. I can remind Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, my colleague, whom I respect very much. I'm very fond of her, and I'm sorry she's not in the O.R. right now to remind her of what she said about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8178	Mr. Millyvoy, please don't quote what anyone said again. Go back to the law, and what is the minister, or Ilic, while he was an MP, what is Markicevic, what is Mrs Tabakovic. You can mention that, but I do not allow you to call out individuals, especially those who are unable to answer you. Go back to the law and discuss it. You can shame him as much as you want. It's your right. I won't argue with you, but don't read a stenogram of what anyone used to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8179	Thank you, Mr. Arsenović. I'd just like to ask this time you've taken away from me to regulate. Since it is forbidden to criticize those who are not in the O.R., there is Mr. Babic in the O.R. He said the same thing about the law. I don't want to read. He was also brilliant at that law. I don't know if they'll vote yes or no, and if they have one attitude when they're the opposition and the other when they're in power. It brings confusion to the electoral body, both ours and theirs. I am particularly interested - will this Milan Marjanovic participate in the promotions of the construction industry? Do you know who that is, Mr. Ilic? It's the one from the Jugoagent, it's the one that owes the Agrobanks a million and a half euros, and it has 165 apartments. He also owes the Cachanska Banka, and otherwise he's a senior SNS official. He's got a good lawyer. Cvian's defending him. The man Cvian's defending, he can't go to jail. You see, he has 165 apartments and owes the Cachanska Banka a few million euros. You're from Chuck and you know how much I love Chuck. I have half my heart in Chačka. We meet there, we love that town. Let's ask him to do the incentive, but to do the cell. That you pay the Chachanska Banka his debt and he builds it. I don't think he's gonna build apartments. I think you're gonna stop it, 'cause we're just doing our job to allow that kind of machination. You know, my experience here teaches me that a lot of laws work on orders. We saw the Law on Amnesty, Criminal Law and now the Law on Planning and Construction. I am particularly concerned that there is one part missing in the reasoning of this law that my colleague Bojan Đuric pointed out. There is no part that says - financial costs for law enforcement. Does this mean that this one from Jugoagent is going to work, so it won't be paid, does that mean that you won't respect the Mandatory Payment Act, the other day we adopted a deadline for state-owned enterprises for 45 days, and for economic operators for 60 days, or is this just gonna be a marketing trick? I wonder if we here in this room are going to get an answer to the question asked by a respected colleague, Nenad Konstantinovic? Who are they waiting for this conversion law to be passed, to extend its period of validity to 12 months without paying for conversion, to see who will be at very attractive locations to build? Is it those guys who first ran to bow before the Styrofoam or are they some other characters or are they some third characters or are they some new faces that haven't been involved in these jobs so far? I am sorry that Mr. Mrkonjic is not here, because we also have a third law - the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. It's a law that was passed in 2010. I don't want to read, Mr. Arsenovic, the stenographic notes so we don't get into an awkward situation, reminding people what it's like to have one morale when you're in opposition and the other when you're in power. I have to ask a question, I'm sorry to argue with the ministry gentlemen, they're nice people, but they have no right to turn to us, only you can have the answers, but I would like Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to answer me. I think there's room for a shovel that clears the snow and sits there next to you and tells me, why are we changing this law after only two years, and we are abolishing the Water Roads Directorate and putting it within the Ministry's framework? It is said that in the area of the Waterway Directorate, there is no reason to change the existing law two years after its adoption. Watch out, same minister, same ministry. He passed one law when he was with us in power, and another law when he was with others in power. You know, some people in bad society go bad pretty fast. That's not good. I'd like to get an answer from Mr. Mrkonjic about these questions and I'm sorry he cheated on you, Mr. Ilic, that you are now defending that law. I can't attack you, nor have I heart. I love Chuck, you love Chuck. He had common points there, but I still don't understand it, it says in an analysis of the effects of the law that such changes will have a positive impact on all domestic water transport operators. What the promoter meant by saying this when the current law defines the position of the Waterway Directorate in a way that it is a professional, professional service of all economic operators involved in internal water transport. I have a lot of questions, but it's inappropriate for me to discuss with people from the ministry. We have prepared ourselves very seriously, as a parliamentary group, for this law. I hope Mr. Mrkonjic will be present in the amendment segment, but we are entering a time when New Year's programs are seriously being prepared, where he plays and sings. Those who listen to the phones, they don't listen to him anymore from squawking bar singers. So, thank you very much, I want answers to these questions. I thank you for your time and patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8180	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8181	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. All we've seen in the past 12 minutes is the paradigm of the previous government, the stage, the stage, the stage, the stage, the acting, the viewers, and the citizens of Serbia go home still hungry. They've seen a lot of things, heard a lot of things, but they're still out of business. But for this law, it seems to me, and I spoke and voted against. Why? You'll know on one case. If you had come to Vrnjačka Banja this summer, the queen of continental tourism, you would have seen 110 million dinars invested in the reconstruction of Banjska Parks under the law in Vrnjačka Banja. We'd expect flower rounds, squares, paved streets, something phenomenal. What were we supposed to see? Buried, unedited, nothing at all. That's why I'm going to vote for this law right now, just to replace it, just to end it, just so that the new government, the government of the SNS and the partners as of the Republic government can still be the queen of continental tourism. As for the change of opinion, I will be very happy to make an effort in the same congregation library to find the speeches of the previous speaker and the praises about Boris Tadic, but something quickly changes his mind, so he goes to the second camp. So, that change of opinion, you have to go first.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8182	Thank you. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8183	Your Honor, Mr. President, this time, on my own behalf, I would like to replicate my colleague Milivojevic. I don't think the option it belongs to has yet to come up with and has not yet recovered from the election defeat. This discussion of his today testifies to that. Well, we can't blame him as a democracy fighter, because he's only recently entered parliament. We've listened to his discussions like this for four years, and that's probably why he was 73 on his party list. So, it's no shame to change your mind, but as far as I'm concerned, all my colleagues are witnesses that New Serbia's MPs didn't even want to report it, if it were luck, this debate on these two amendments and the additions of the law would take an hour to move on to another part of the agenda. So much for me, and I think to the citizens of Serbia, was clear Minister Velimir Ilic. It seems to me that for the first time since the creation of a multi-party system in Serbia, one minister, here I am as a member of New Serbia, and as a New Serbia MP, I will hold him by his word, invite all parties, both the ruling coalitions and the opposition, to give one man in charge of the party, not to say that it is an expert in the field of the Planning Law, to deliver to the ministry, and that everyone together participates in the creation of the law. Therefore, since I do not have the right to personally address anyone according to the Rules of Procedure, I am saying that it is no shame to change my mind, I am not, only this law has its own consequences and consequences, fortunately or unfortunately, I mean for the citizens of Serbia, it must treat the current ministry and Minister Velimir Ilic. Given the success of his previous mandate, I firmly believe he will have success in what he intended. You just keep going and you'll get far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8184	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8185	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, without the intention of answering anyone's personal name and last name, but those who are proud of what might look like Alexander Vukic, and we heard it in the afternoon's presentation, has Alexander Vukic's two faces. You may remember him, but from the time he was wearing a badge. Otherwise, you're not even a pale copy now. With you, I can relocate the moment you defeat the Klissar in your constituency, then call me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8186	Mr. Milivojevic, please take care of how you characterize certain people in the Assembly. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8187	I'll be very brief. I thank you all for your attention. Of course, I understand both the position and the opposition, I understand what anybody said. No matter what I said, I told the truth. I was against that law because that law was exactly what someone said. Not to repeat what Markicevic said, but I agree and that's what turned out. It's true that the work was done by party people. It is true that nothing has been done in Vranjska Banja, and 110 million. It's true that someone has to pay for it today. It's true that these companies of yours that got jobs had a lot to do. One of those performers who was incomparable in these jobs is currently blocked 30m euros, Mr. Milivojevic. You blacked it out. He told me in person - in black they turned me, better they didn't give me anything. Now we're trying to get them out, put them on their feet, see if they can work. That's why we need to support this now, to get these unfortunate people out of here that you've brought where you've brought them. It's true that you've given them jobs. It's true that I won't let any new jobs go without public procurement, 100%. We'll meet again in this House. They won't be able to do it like that and no one from this government will support sharing the business of Perry, Ziki, Mickey, etc. Come here, here's your job, so I don't tell you what you need to do extra and that a man goes under the ice. We won't let that happen. We want it done, finished and made sure that there is no mockery left in Serbia, that these objects stand for years. We want to finish it. I think I'm clear. Don't talk now, we're not terminating this new law. We clearly declare ourselves there - we ask that without the payment of the material compensation of the conversion they can get building permits, do work to a new law that will be abolished. I'm going to propose to eliminate it as it is, but there will be another payment mechanism, that the works that have been done, the profits that are generated will be charged, etc. There will be some workers working on these projects. There'll be some taxes on profits. There's gonna be some VAT. The building material will be used. There will be a variety of regular forms in this country, by law, that will make up for it. So I wouldn't want to talk about what happened here right now. I don't want to deal with the past. I said that law is not good and I stand behind it today, and you convince me now, you who voted for it and fought for it, it's not good. I told you a long time ago it wasn't good. Some things I've told you here a hundred times that they're wrong and you're not doing it, but you've been doing it. What do we do? Serbia cannot fail now because of you, because you were bad at a certain point. Oh, my God, we've got to get it in order somehow, iron it out. Srjan, head upstairs, you have a serious government. What you say will fall to the government, so we have never been more united. Here, last night we were very complicated and always so complex. Don't think about it and worry about it. I know you like it, of course. We loved it when we were opposition. You, the way you are, you've been through four years. Can you imagine who we are now? We'll double that, at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8188	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm afraid my discussion won't be as interesting as these previous few. I'll say a few things about amendments to the Law on navigation and on ports on internal waters. The most significant change in the current law is in fact a change in the legal status of the Waterway Directorate, so that this directorate will no longer be a special organisation, but will become the authority of the administration within the Ministry of Transport. So these amendments to this law are actually done by harmonising jurisdiction and transferring regulatory powers from the Directorate to the Ministry of Transport. By the way, the Waterway Directorate is a special organisation that was founded only in 1963. It is responsible for the maintenance and development of internal waterways, on which international and interstate navigation regimes apply. These are the rivers: Dunav, Sava and Tisa, when it comes to Serbia. What are the reasons for the abolition of a special organization, which has existed for 50 years? So this isn't some newly formed agency from the past four, five years, but this organization really exists for 50 years and is in charge of a very serious and complex job. The explanation that we received under this law states that these changes and additions were actually carried out on the initiative of the Minister of Finance and Economy. I am sorry that Mr. Mrkonjic is not here to tell us whether he participated in making these amendments and additions, because that same explanation shows that the interested parties did not have the opportunity to plead on this bill. Is this, therefore, a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and Business or a proposal from the Ministry of Traffic? We keep getting laws, and this is one of those where changes are a small number, but very significant, serious, where no quality is done, in this case, no public debate. Furthermore, it argues that the purpose of the rationalisation of the state administration is, but everything seems, by this excuse of rationalisation, or savings, to abolish the competences of the wrong institutions and to enter into the reorganisation of those institutions, bodies that should not be reformed in this way. The argument also said that, therefore, all MPs had the opportunity to read, that the savings would be in that the directorate's staff will be less than 25% when they become parts of the ministry's administration's salaries, and hence the contributions. So that's the savings they're talking about. It also says that they will be spared on official travels and that people from the Directorate, but now within the ministry, will travel together with people from the ministry. I don't know, at least there was never a word about it, that there was an abuse when it came to official travel. So, you're making us think about how these people are employed in the Directorate so far on official travels that weren't needed and that she's about to be abolished and there's now, my God, a huge savings. So I'm going back to the initial thing, and that's that you're removing some jurisdiction, moving institutions where it shouldn't be done. The ministry people certainly know, and I will also remind Minister Ilic, that the Serbian Waterway Development Master is expected to do a lot of things by 2025, to increase river traffic even four times, he is now about 7% in total compared to total transport. So, by 2025, he should have 30 percent of the total transport when it comes to that. What else is necessary? Modernisation of ports, development of industrial zones in the Danube and Sava, modernisation of the fleet, improvement of safety and environmental protection, as well as the introduction of new lines for container transport and goods. This is all in the Master's plan that Serbia wants to do until 2025, and you with these laws, at a small door, lift very important institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8190	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8191	Since Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic asked me to replace him today and since I know this matter very well. The Directorate had to do a series of projects planned during the previous period. First, the marking of Sava's airworthiness, the flagging of the Sava River to Raca and later to Brcko. He had to do a series of projects on the Danube, and it just ended. To this day, nothing has been done. The projects are about to begin. Europe, since we are part of Corridor 7, the Danube Corridor requires us to do certain things. It is true that the Directorate has exited the Ministry's framework, has its own people who have received extremely large salaries, simply have not dealt with this problem, has no result. There was always some counselling, and the Danube Commission, and the Sava Commission, and the seat of this, but the result of zero. The ministry is now pressured to resolve the wateriness of the river, because it is in a European system. The only way he can handle it is to put it under his own control within the Ministry. It is true that employees will have much less salaries in the ministry than in certain agencies, directorates, etc. It's the same as the shut down directorate that made houses out of earthquakes, got budgets, and didn't make a few houses in a certain period. They solved, bought what they needed, cars, furniture, offices, but they didn't make houses. The peasants didn't get houses and live under nylon. There's got to be a way to redecorate it. They have their board of directors, they bless it, they spend the funds, and what we will do at the end of the year when they report. That's why it's too busy to put this within the Ministry and have day-to-day control. Sava's sail must end. From Raca to Belgrade ten years ago, 12 were working 30 thousand people. Sabac began to build a port that was extremely important for all of the Sword, Podrinje, etc. It all stopped, nothing was done. Deep enough to get rid of her like a glider, she's not touched. She slips every day and carries a piece of the Mind. Now the asphalt is thick when you look at the Mind at the Sava River six meters, one day it will all go to Sava. Sava began to retreat into the land and simply meant here and makes such a cut that the depth of Sava is in that place over 20 meters, and in other places three meters and something. Therefore, the ministry has to react, the government has to react, to change that, which is why it came to this. It's all right, I agree with you, that it should have stayed, but these problems had to be solved, the results to be made, and then everything would be fine, but this isn't worth it. They suffered, they were tolerated, they were given tasks, there were promises, and so on. There are a number of problems in Serbia that have arisen precisely in the many agencies that have been abolished these days. Do you believe me, I am not going to count because it is not correct, there is an agency that received several million euros in 2012 and has not spent 100 dinars to this day. You know the problems in Serbia that this agency was supposed to solve? Abnormally, and that's where the most poor is and where the worst is the misery. Imagine someone taking 160,000 salaries a month, running the agency and not spending a hundred dinars, just counselling, seminars, consultations, field tours, a tour of Europe to see how the world works, and we do nothing. Now those funds will be withdrawn into the budget reserve. Thousands of people waited and watched and prayed for God to end up getting a solution to their problems that had been accumulated for years. You now have one group of people who didn't see a problem, they didn't care about it, and they went around the world, and they didn't go for example to see around Belgrade, it's enough that they went here to Umka, to Krgnaca, to Kaludierica and to solve those problems. I would ask a gentleman who is running power here in the capital and who are full of stories, they have solved everything, do you know that Belgrade as one leading city in Southeast Europe, do you know that 30% of Belgrade's citizens have no sewers? Every household has three to five septic caves. You know that Santa doesn't have a sewer? Not to talk about Kaludierica, Sheep, Borchi, etc. You know that open feces go through the canals through the settlements? That's true. We make up a circle of twos, the one around Hayat, the Intercontinental, the Sava Center, and we say, "Here, that's Belgrade, when someone comes." Gentlemen, solve problems, no one will touch you, but don't solve any problems, and tomorrow someone comes and says, "Well, what you haven't done, they say, "Here, past time." Not to be a long story, that's one of the reasons. Otherwise, Mr. Mrkonjic, I hope that he will solve these problems of Sava's airworthiness, so does Republika Srpska. Here's the deal that's being made. Sava can normally be watering to Brcko, very quickly. Sava has to get to Ratche, be watery. Sava in Šapco has to build a big port, there's space and everything is fixed, it has to be realized. "Zorca" The Sabbath was supplied from that port. These kabastic materials that came, steel from Ukraine, all came through waterways, for the entire Samberia, for all of Podrinje, for the entire Sword, and it must work. We're talking, and now we're building a highway to Frusca Mountain, so we're going to work towards Loznica speed up some highway, etc., and why? We'll take the traffic off Sava and force that end. It's this country's project and it has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8192	Thank you. The word has Donka Banovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8193	Thank you. You've expanded the subject a little, so I'm afraid citizens will get the impression that I'm responsible for some suburban settlements in Belgrade not having sewers. You have turned now. Gentlemen, take care of what you do. So I'm not responsible for that. What you just said now, I have no reason not to believe you, but it could have stood in reason. So what's in the explanation is that it's a rationalization of the state administration, and I've cited everything from an explanation. So you could say -- that direction didn't work well, 50 years didn't work right, and that's why we decided to take this step. Now, what step have you decided, is that going to solve problems, which is not working in that department, that's another thing? Well, he won't. If you and Minister Mrkonjic and the Government are dissatisfied with the organisation's work, then there are individuals in the organisation. If they don't do their job, those people get fired, so experts and people who will do better and who will do better, if all of this is true. I find it hard to believe that by putting the directorate in the ministry, you will now increase discipline and, let me say, the productivity of that administration, if you remain the same people. What's going on under the firm of this rationalization is not good. I will remind the MPs that the Fund for Environmental Protection has been abolished, because the previous minister has not worked properly or misused funds from that fund, so instead of first, that man is no longer a minister, that there is a repair in the management of the Fund itself, that it does not come to this. You have abolished, too, a very important institution when it comes to environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8194	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8195	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would like to apologize to all the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia, for being too temperate this morning, that the MP must not allow himself to do so even when he is angry. I was angry because today on the agenda this regime takes two billion euros from citizens of Belgrade. That is true, and no warning will stop me from talking about it in this congregation. Mr. Ilic, you haven't answered my question. Now I'm going to ask you again. Which foreign company is awaiting conversion in Belgrade? Just give me one, and it's not some company from Cyprus or Dutch antels, if you think of them, I don't think of them. I mean the right side of the investment, no middleman. Just tell me one thing. You're talking again about the Law of Incentives of the Construction Industry. Please just one thing, say, how much is it due to these construction firms? Say how much is paid and how much is owed? It's important to know how much more money we owe these people, and when are we gonna get that money? But again, I have to go back to Luke Belgrade. For 50m euros, Milan Beko bought Luka Belgrade. He didn't buy 180 acres of land for that money, he got 180 hectares for free, and that's what we tried to make a conversion from Milan Beck, 120m euros. You're ending it today. Why? Clearly, this government owes something to the tycoons, that's clear. Please don't pay back your debts through the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. That's what you'd agree with them, but not across the back of Belgrade's citizens. I have to get back to Oliver Dulic. You've been crucifying that man in the media for a month. In the end, you made an indictment, about 20,000 euros against the law, to a third person. People, 100,000 times as many as you give a third person today, read to five tycoons, and nothing to anyone. A hundred thousand times more. Of course, the media doesn't talk about it. If I hadn't gone back to Insider, which was attended by Milan Beko and Oliver Dulic, he would have invited citizens to look at this Insider, he would have seen many interesting things then, and what did Milan Beko say, when Oliver Dulic asked him, why not pay 120 million? To wait for better conditions? He's met them. I know you're not comfortable listening to this, but unfortunately, I'm telling the truth. This is the fight against corruption, advocated by the ruling majority, the fight against corruption to allow five people to take something from Serbian citizens. It is not a fight against corruption to arrest Miskovic, on the one hand, and then let him build a free mall on AutoCommand, people call it hypocrisy. That's the truth. I won't keep you any longer, I'm just asking for answers from Mr. Ilic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8196	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8197	Sir, your questions are very unserious to answer them. When you solve and clean the house from the inside, for example, I'm giving you a good example, if you want to fight corruption, and I see that you're willing and think of the Belgraders, clean up with you from the top. You've got as much work as you want, so you'll get to Beck, you know? But you see these litigation issues, the solutions, what's been going on, look at that little bit. Secondly, don't talk about Belgrade, that for years, not to say a decade, you have power. Look what's been going on here. Take a look. Look at the locations, so I don't list them for you. Don't let me bring you foreign companies that have gone crazy. They asked us, don't let me tell you about Alcatel, about the companies that were coming, about the locations. Who gave Miskovic the location for Delta Bank, now tell me? For free, who gave it to him? Is it me? I was a minister at the time, no one asked me, you gave it from Belgrade, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8198	Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8199	Don't say that, I'm sorry, don't get off the subject, you've got a lot of internal problems. When you solve it, you'll have these big state ones. You in the party close the door, clear your things, and then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8200	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Radakovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8201	Mr. Ilic mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8202	He didn't mention you by name, but I'll give you a chance at a replica, and we'll get it over with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8203	Dear Mr. Ilic, again you have not answered the question, which foreign investment has been stopped in the city of Belgrade? Only one, if she hasn't paid for the conversions, which one owns the land? Just answer me that. As far as we're concerned, let us do what we want in our party. You're the minister here, you're here to take care of the citizens of Serbia, who today take two billion euros. I'm not talking about Milan Beck, I'm just talking about your principle, about your fight against corruption. You're talking about how we run the city of Belgrade. The citizens of Belgrade said we are running the City of Belgrade. Look at the results. You had 50% less votes in Belgrade than we did. That's true. You're talking about sewers. We'll do that sewer, but give us our money, our two billion euros. Do you know how many sewers can be done with that? You're a man of construction, you know that very well. Seventy percent of the sewers that haven't been done can be done, but give us our money. We're not looking for other people's money here, just ours. Is that something controversial? Please answer my question which foreign company didn't pay for the conversion, and she wanted to pay? Only name one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8204	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8205	You know how, to suit you individually, it doesn't make sense, but you yourself said it was two billion euros in damage, and you listed a tycoon, as you say, some hundred million. Where are the others? Who are the others? Secondly, is it possible to defend something that, for four years in your term, there was only one conversion in Belgrade? Is it possible that only one investment was in Belgrade under question and conversion had to be resolved? Is that possible, and in this city thousands of companies, thousands of acres of land, etc. have been sold? Please don't. Don't let me tell you stories now. You run yours, tell your story. You've passed this law. He practically doesn't have an application. It's all stopped. I repeat, the law that had in Belgrade one conversion for four years is zero for me and has to change. In six months you'll have a new law here, which we'll adopt. We're going to create this law now. So, we don't end the conversion, we're giving someone without compensation permission to start working, to get into work, to do preparatory work, not to stand up for construction. This is the position of all, and the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade and Serbia, and builders and construction firms. They're waiting for this like a cold sun. You talk to them. The construction union, which was recently, everyone was looking for it. You're just talking about Luke Belgrade, Luke Belgrade. Well, that's your problem in Belgrade. Why are you telling me about Lucy Belgrade? I don't have any authority over Luke Belgrade. That's where you give the papers and work and build. I'm sure if someone had met some of your expectations there, that would have been all right, like a lot of what was right. Don't make these difficult subjects. Please don't. Look at some companies around Belgrade as they're finished. Where's your business in Belgrade? How did your business end? What companies do that in Belgrade? Gentlemen, what company does it work? If it weren't for the Colubares and the Obrenovac, you'd spend us down there, half of the Forest you forged, devastated the entire area, and you didn't bring anything back to the original state. It's the only thing that works in your system. Tell me about a manufacturing company in Belgrade. Who in Belgrade does manufacturing? Where are the Belgrade giants? Gentlemen, what about the railroad, what about the dragon, what about IMT, what about Lola Fisher? What about those giants? They're gone. Why aren't they here? Where'd they go? What's in their seats? That's what you discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8206	Thank you. (Janko Radakovic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Radakovic, I don't think you have any more grounds for replication. You challenged the replica of your discussion, which was past the subject. I've allowed you two replicas, and I won't allow you a third. Therefore, you have no right to a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8207	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, has been injured. The Rules of Procedure for a number of reasons. First, Minister Ilic addresses directly here and yells at the MPs, and in that performance, it is imprecise to the limits, bordering on untrueness. He says, "You poisoned half of the forest, you dug this up and that in the "Colabars". I don't know who he's talking to. Is he talking to us or talking to the new director, who kept the roaster until recently? Please be precise. Who poisoned her? Who poisoned her? What factories in the City of Belgrade are owned by the City of Belgrade? If you think politically you're attacking the city government, Minister, be precise. So many sewers will be made as much as Chachak does. Rest assured, in one millimeter we won't stand down. Don't talk about it. Mr. General, you, as chairman, should make sure that this is an uninterrupted matter. He speaks directly to an elevated tone without any need. Please, it can't be counted in this assembly anymore that someone will use this party, which I belong to, as a punching bag, and that we will be silent here and let go because the people have been brought to the square to watch the witch burn, so he's happy, and you will burn with them. That's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8208	I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, and I have to answer that I don't really speak in a raised tone. I'm trying to be correct with all of you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not you.) I realized that's what you said to me. I'm sorry, then. Unfortunately, we have to be as correct as possible. The replica given by the minister was triggered by a previous discussion. If it hadn't been for that, it wouldn't have come to this. If you are not satisfied with my response, you may state whether to vote in the voting day. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Yes. ) All right, we'll vote in the voting day if there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. It's the rules of procedure because there's been some kind of witch burning here. I understand that my fellow MPs may, for some time in their discussions, be more bile to debate, etc., but do not forget that the Privatisation Act was being implemented by the DS and proposed by Aleksandar Vlahovic, especially from the part most criticised, that the subject of privatisation must be expressed accountingly, not market value, so I do not understand what DS is paying for. That's the law you passed, and you made it possible for someone to buy a small-money company, and then, using the property, the company would crush a fortune, not me from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8210	Mr. Arsic, I beg you that when you use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then... I don't mind if you replicate. This was more of a replica, so please respect that fact. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8211	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think today's debate has shown that the Law on Planning and Construction essentially represented the political decision of the previous government as soon as we disputed so much now who voted for it, who was against, who proposed certain solutions. At the beginning of today's debate, it was not clear to me at one point when we discussed the law of those who criticized him, today defending him under all the circumstances that you presented today, and those who voted for the law turned out to be the greatest critics of the law. In practice, this law has shown in many provisions that it is inapplicable. If we ask ourselves whether the construction of the previous three years, since this law was passed, has triggered the economy, the answer is clear that it did not happen. The Serbian Constitutional Court has marked certain provisions of this law as anti-constitutional and has put them out of force. There's a huge number of illegal buildings built. The problem still hasn't been solved. As far as the data is concerned, I think it's over 700,000 people, waiting for this issue to be resolved. We talked a lot about conversion today. I understand the intention of this proposal, or amendments and additions, that you have proposed, but I would like to hear if in this law, which in six months' time should come into the congregation procedure, the conversion will be abolished? What did Serbia gain in the previous period by the conversion that exists in the current law? How many projects are waiting? I know that you are not responsible, that Ikea did not come to Serbia, which is not the real project "The City of Water", which the hotel Yugoslavia is still standing in the dark, but whether something about it will change in the next period. I wonder if some tycoons have recorded property of buildings and land under the applicable law? Have certain companies received large areas of land for use under this law? I'm sure they are. That's why we need to seriously reform this area, if we want certain shifts in it. Is there a big problem with corruption in obtaining building permits? There is, that we don't lie about it. How long are the deadlines, or how long is the period of issue of building permits? Serbia is at the beginning of all the lists, and even by these parameters, I thought we were eight, and today you released the information that we are third, from behind. Of course, when there are catastres and directors, inspections, seduces, licensed designers, performers, when all large enterprises have to issue certain permits to build a particular facility. What is a frantic fact is that the building permit and everything that it takes to get into this country, to get into that process, is at this point the most expensive in Europe. It takes a long time, a large number of papers, and eventually, people who want to invest in this country have to raise huge money. How long is the home operation? How much does the state owe? How many public enterprises, how many local self-governments? We talked about construction material, what is the ratio of import material, and how much material is spent by domestic producers? Unfortunately, I think the much larger part that comes from imports. The capital facilities to be built in the coming period have fallen to foreign firms. The Zemun-Borch Bridge will work for the Chinese. The Jell-O bridge in Novi Sad will work with the Italian-Spanish consortium. Croatian firms are making traffic of around 150m euros annually. How much Serbian construction firms can make in Croatia? Zero. Not a single euro. The Greeks are building in this country. There's no guarantee fund for construction firms based on which they could do this job well. The cheated citizens, which we had the opportunity to see through the media, you had meetings with them, were forced to just organize, because the state did not stand behind them in the previous period. The state has so far had no clear strategy, to take care of the building, as one, an extremely significant branch. People are left to be cared for by banks and to determine the conditions under which they will raise loans and interest on which to repay a certain amount of money. The previous minister was built under this law of towers and cities, unfortunately by sand. Mr. Gilas said that if the legalisation is not completed during his term, he would consider himself a failed mayor. I'm sorry Mr. Mrkonjic isn't here, because we've had a series of questions for him, too, but I think in the previous years he's worked hand-to-hand on Corridor 10, he'd have finished it by now. Unfortunately, when we were together in the government, there were projects and if it were luck, I wouldn't be traveling three hours this morning from Cack to Belgrade, but in an hour, I'd be on the highway we were going to build together. I expect you to fulfill what you said today, but also the promise and everything you stated in the debate when we talked about this law. It is that you said that it is a shame that the House today in the 21st century brings such a law, even saying it represents a nuclear disaster. We understand the reasons why you have to extend this deadline for the next two years. I am pleased that you did not speak as Mr. Dulic, that we have to put lids on the pots to save and thus speed up some processes in the Republic of Serbia. We have proposed concrete amendments to these laws. We have proposed which laws should be passed in order for this country to finally start working, so that the construction operation can do its job properly and specifically propose what should be done in the conversion process. We hope from you that when the amendments are discussed, you will be accepted by the DSS amendment and we will try to solve all these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8212	The word has the People's Rules of Procedure, Susana Spasojevic. He's not here? Okay. Next registered MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8213	Dear chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us the laws of incentive in the construction industry at the time of the economic crisis, and this SNS law sees it as necessary. It is necessary in the part where it is necessary to extend its deadline to another two years, i.e. the period of validity until 31 December 2014. The previous government has convinced your citizens that the economic crisis that exists around the world is a Serbian great opportunity. This opportunity has been reflected in the fact that you, respected citizens and most of us citizens, have reached the beggar stick, and many businesses have been brought to a collapse. There are certainly construction companies among these companies that should be the backbone of each country's development. This government feels safe and has so far shown that life does not begin with it. Life goes on and on and on. Of course, what is not fulfilled, this government has a cure, and the cure is its responsibility to the non-responsibility of the previous government. Why? Because building and upgrading and putting into office these facilities will increase the quality of life of an ordinary man and an ordinary citizen of Serbia. For this reason, the SNS will certainly support this law. As for the second law, and it refers to the Law on Planning and Construction, the SNS opinion is that the laws are living organisms, that what does not have a real basis in reality should certainly be changed. That stone had no real basis in reality was conversion, but this law suspended conversion for a year. The issue of conversion is a rather controversial issue. This issue should be approached and we hope that it will be accessible in a comprehensive way when the Planning and Construction Act is systematically drafted, which you certainly foresee to go public in six months. What good is it that I have to commend in this bill of planning and construction, although it applies only to this member, to conversion? It is good that, when the members of this law are amended, the professional public and all those institutions that need to be consulted, namely the Engineering Chamber, NGOs, associations and associations of businessmen, the American Chamber of Commerce, have been consulted. What is it that this law wants to achieve? Starting an investment cycle, improving the situation in the construction industry and inflows of financial resources. These are all reasons that explain the purpose of the amendment of this member of the law and the SNS, of course, there is no dilemma here either. They will uphold this law. As regards the Law on Navigation and Ports in Internal Waters, there has been a change in legal status of the Waterway Directorate, as special organisational units and will now operate within the Ministry of Transport. This law on navigation and ports provides for a ban on anchoring on the waterway. Also, this law provides for the issue of consent for the construction of ports, detailing the technical rules for the identification of vessels for navigation, detailed programme for the technical control of vessels for navigation, the prescribed deadlines for the validity of certificates on the ability of vessels to sail, the technical control of boats, the way in which the ship's books are issued and the boarding permits are to be issued. Also, this law provides for foreign vessels to enter passenger ports that meet the conditions to be open to international traffic. As far as I've seen, in this law on sailing and ports on internal waters, it is envisaged to adopt very important sublegal acts and I expect the competent Ministry of Transport to bring these sublegal acts within six months to a year. Why am I stressing on these sublaws? Because there are many, because the law is only a roof, because the adoption of sublegal acts actually puts every law into life. In the previous period and in the previous government, many reform requirements have been adopted. Unfortunately, there were no sublegal acts, and these laws could not be lifelike and have a basis in reality. We will certainly uphold this law. I had an objection to this law in terms of not consulting the professional public, because I believe that the professional public in this area and that there is and that and how important the opinion of the expert public in the field of shipping and water traffic is, but you have somewhat convinced me of the correctness of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8214	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support all these laws, especially this one about encouraging the construction industry and planning and building, because it's an attempt to revive the construction industry as much as possible. The construction industry was once the pride of this country, and after the rule of those who rebel the most, today the fourth generation of construction companies has begun to fail. Since 2009, the number of employees in the construction industry has been halved and dropped by 60,000. The debts of the state, provinces, cities, local self-government since 2009 towards construction firms have increased by nearly 1 billion euros. Construction material manufacturers work with 30% capacity, and even 15 construction materials factories are before closing. The production of cement works with 50% and only taxes and taxes for those other 50% which do not work we lose 80m euros annually. We've only been subcontractors in low construction for the last four years, as far as I know. The construction industry was once the pride of Serbia, in the 1970s and 80s around the world. He can't even get a job in his own country today. In the last four years, the tender conditions in our country have been unfavourable for our companies, 165,000 claims that our construction companies in balances have not been paid. Many of these companies have debts to banks, many of these companies and businesses have been liquidated. From 9,000 registered construction companies, from April 2011, to the end of the rule of yellow ants, 2,539 construction...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8216	Please don't use words like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8217	What words?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8218	Yellow ants. Please, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8219	Okay, they weren't yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8220	I have to take care, no matter how you think of someone, but in the congregation you have to express yourself with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8221	Mr. Chairman, I've been listening to something here. I think I was figurative, picturesque, that there was nothing malicious about it on my part. For the last four years, the excessive administration of building permits has made it difficult for any recovery of the construction industry. Serbia must today gain as much political courage and financial strength as it has to engage in any projects, because today this is just the rest of once proud Serbian high-building and low-building. In the past, our builders in the world have achieved great foreign exchange benefits and major foreign exchange inflows. At the end of each month, construction workers, especially field workers, proudly came to their families with full envelopes, gifts, raised heads. Today these same construction workers, at the end of the month, return to their neighbors without pay, head down, no gifts, empty pockets. In the past, our infrastructure was leading in the Balkans and Eastern Europe thanks to low construction. Today we are 130th and 135th in the world by rail and infrastructure. The former regime has lastrated factory workers, textiles, metals, construction builders, and the farmers from the fields. Today, those who halved the construction industry by 70% reduced the production of construction materials hold sermons here. They destroyed everything, racketed everything, without any shame, that man didn't believe it, as if the Martians were ruling this country. They won't forgive us for their mistakes. Serbia was once a pride in the construction industry. With the rest of them, we'd be like an art academy. We could take a picture with them. In the end, given that various sources have been quoted here, I'll read a quote. "For ten years this country has been ruled by the worst. For ten years, this country has been in disgrace and shame. For almost ten years, we have been ashamed to be citizens of this country. We've got no reason left, we've got them out of the way. They were a mechanical obstacle on our way, a gang of usurper who still doesn't know it's been replaced. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8222	According to the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8223	Mr. Chairman, Art. 106th and 107th. You ordinarily tried to direct the MP to return to civilization flows, but I think you had to give him a warning. Now please give him a warning. I can also understand the heat of political struggle and different sightings. Compared to a colony of harmful insects, which are color...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8224	Please, let the man finish the thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8225	I think it's necessary to give a warning because it's being brought into the context of a certain color, which individuals attach to DS. That color may have been known to the MPs who made fake stamps out of potatoes. Maybe that's why they connect that color to the harmful insects. You, I think, must, the chairman, give a warning to the messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8226	Mr. Stefanovic, I reacted in time to Mr. Risticevic's exposure. If I were to give him a warning, then I'd have to tell you the last line. So this time I won't give a warning. I hope that we will draw good conclusions and conduct ourselves in harmony with the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of this congregation in the future. Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8227	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, I still think that this is such a serious insult, I'm advertising the violation of Article 109... (President: Which member? ) Article 109. I'd like to ask an orbit of a model not to throw it away. So, Mr. Arsenović, this is where the conditions are not just that... (President: Milivojevic, please, you have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you are referring to Article 109, which regulates the reminder given by the chairman. Therefore, I do not see, then you must change the member by which you advertise the Rules of Procedure. That's right. I can advertise an article. 107th and 108th and 109th. It says here what the warning is about. (President: Please mention, I agree that after you explain, you must be consistent about calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. )......................................................................................................... Because we have to protect the reputation of this institution. This session of the Assembly, next to voters who have the right to vote, is watched by children. If children hear that some hordes of robbers, robbers, some yellow ants are sitting here, of course that's why violence is initiated, not only on the political scene of Serbia, then violence is reflected from parliament to all segments of society. What's allowed by the MP, why shouldn't a child be allowed in elementary school? I don't think this is a good practice and this high house has to be polite and to use parliamentary opportunities to prevent this kind of arrogant behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8228	Since you've advertised the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, I think you can plead this on Voting Day. Is that what you're up to? Is that what you're asking us to say? (Yes) The Assembly will declare on the day of the vote that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Mr. Risticevic, on what basis are you answering? - Replica. You don't have the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8229	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising an article. 27, 106 and 107. I've been insulted more than once by the Rules of Procedure here, even said I made a potato stamp. What are you going to do, the Peasant Party, we don't have the money and we've made ourselves a potato stamp. We don't have to be friends of tycoons, etc. I want to tell you that I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I've already quoted it. I'll tell you, since Zoran Djindjic obviously doesn't play any part in them anymore... (Chairman: Please leave Djindjic alone.) Explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Wait, I'll tell you what's wrong with the Rules of Procedure. On that occasion, when I said this, I quoted Zoran Djindjic. So I can prove it. Look at the stenographic notes. I quoted them as the former prime minister, the Prime Minister, who would say more – You are the cause of economic disaster and people's disaster, you are just the political wing of organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8230	Mr. Risticevic, please, we're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I showed you the courtesy, so I also pointed it out to Mr. Stefanovic. (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: I really apologize, I forgot to say who I quoted.) ) Please, I am really trying to avoid the penalty measures, as long as you respect the chairman and respect the words I say. (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: and for the third time I apologize for forgetting to say who I quoted. ) Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8231	Art. 104 and 107. It's the next thing, Mr. Chairman. You have a duty to give a warning, I think, and we may disagree. The previous speaker did quote Zoran Djindjic, when Zoran Djindjic spoke about his current coalition partners more than 10 years ago. At the same time, you allowed that MP to say these things, looking towards this parliamentary group and saying that we are the political wing of organized crime. It is a serious insult because, regardless of the quote, if it is expressed in this context and it is looked at in our MP group and it tells us such a message, either you accept that it is true or you have to give it a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8232	Mr. Stefanovic, if someone quotes one party leader, the logical conclusion is that this does not apply to the party but to another party. That's how I figured it out. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 98. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Radakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8233	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I've asked the question again and you haven't given the answer. Since you haven't given any answers, I have to tell you, since that's true, the truth exists and the truth is only one - report and state on Day 1. Eight. In 2012, approved projects under the Construction Industry Encouragement Act. As much as it's due to these construction firms, it's in the table. The total liabilities per commission are 18 billion. It's been paid 12.5 billion. It's 5.6 billion. From that, the Development Fund, read – Ministry of Ecology, three billion and local self-government 1.7 billion. This is true. Mr. Minister, 20% were not paid to the construction industry and 80% were paid. You didn't say that. You did not say further, that 250 projects have been made with these 180m euros throughout Serbia that have been completed, including the Cačka Stadium, and the pool in Kragujevac, including Piroth, Novi Pazar and the whole of Serbia, are not just Belgrade. At least in Belgrade, and the Obrenovac-Surcin Bridge was built in Belgrade. That's one truth. The other truth, you are not talking about, which foreign company has the property of any country in the territory of the city of Belgrade and that it should pay for conversion, will not pay for it. Now I answer you to what you have said to me, why they will not pay. They won't pay because they were hoping and all the time they thought you'd come to power. You came to power and allowed them to get free of charge. It's all free. When I talk about this, I'm not just talking about Milan Beck, I'm talking about five tycoons here. I am also talking about Bogoljub Karic, a member of the ruling coalition, who has an APB in the same country. I'm talking about Vojin Lazarevic, the "Combinate Sports" in Karaburma. I'm talking about these things. Who are these people? Just one answer, please. Get a list of the people who paid for the conversion. Are we for conversion? We did. We are proud of it, and we are not like the SNS, who says – for, or against, and then they say – we vote for conversion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8234	Mr. Radakovic, please insist on exorcising some justice that is practically not the subject of this law. Please give your right to discuss as an authorised representative the laws that are on the agenda. You're asking someone here to account for what's who and who's been paid. I don't think that's the topic of the debate. Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8235	Mr. Chairman, the MPs here serve to ask some questions from the ministers, and ministers to file the bills to parliament. I guess that's the rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8236	Mr. Radakovic, you can ask that question as a parliamentary question. Now's not the time. If you can't get back to the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8237	I will return to what Mr Ilic asked me – what company is he doing in Belgrade? I'll give you one thing, Mr. Ilic, the PKB of Belgrade. The company is run by the city of Belgrade. Look at today's results, ask people who work at the PKK how they work today, and how it worked when it was a republican firm.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8238	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8239	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary... (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8240	I'm sorry, it's a replica, I'll give you a later word. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8241	I'm sorry, buddy, I won't be long. The consequences of which the authorised DS representative spoke are the consequences of a law called the Privatisation Act. Under the same law proposed by his party colleague, Aleksandar Vlahovic, when companies were privatised, accounting value was calculated which was several times lower than market value, so many of them bought companies at book value under the same law, and then borrowed them from banks at market value so that they could buy new companies. That's how it worked. No more, wake up. It started in 2002. That's when you passed the law. That's when your MPs voted for him. He was your privatisation minister back then. If we want to talk about any irregularities, let's catch a thread when these irregularities start. They start with one bad privatisation law. Don't spray any more ashes. The second thing, when you mention the God of Karic, remember that he didn't bother you at the time. When he supported Boris Tadic in 2004 to become president of the Republic in the second round, he was not a criminal to you, not a thief, not a tycoon. He was your friend back then. He gave you the province government and now suddenly, when he's no longer with you, he's all of it. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8242	The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8243	Thank you. We can talk here about 2002 and the Privatization Act. I know when companies were privatised, and that was at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's not controversial. As far as I can tell, that doesn't have to be questionable with you. At that time, the minister of infrastructure was Velimir Ilic, as it is today. On the subject of Bogoljub Karic, I have nothing against this man. If his brother is sitting in the Assembly, then he should come and say - I accept the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Let Tomislav Nikolic free him, let him abolize him. I don't have a problem with that. Just let him show up in the country. We didn't call an APB. He was driven out of the country by people when she was second power, not DS. Please, you're talking about 2002, and I'm talking about today. Let's just forget about the past. You don't know what to say about today, so you talk about the past. Today you are revoking a law allowing five tycoons to take two billion euros. Again, I ask Mr. Ilic to answer my question. I know it's hard, but let him answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8244	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8245	Article 107 has been broken. There's one out, let's say, half-truth. I repeat, I understand everything in the heat of political struggle, that you can say anything. This same Aleksandar Vlahovic who proposed the Privatisation Act may not have been in the SRS at the time, and I think it is, because the SRS voted in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8246	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8247	Now, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 107. You have not warned the previous speaker that he respects the dignity of the National Assembly because no single law, proposed by the government of Zoran Djindjic, as a national MP, has ever voted. When you talk about tycoons, that privatisation law gave them that land. That's theirs now. Whether you want to accept it or not. It's theirs. They're in possession. They have the right to use. If so, you are in power in Belgrade, bring in an urban act so they can't build or you're just stuck getting the money. Why? To buy expensive buses, to move the budget to build a bridge twice, three times, what, four times. Why? To make the mayor of Belgrade even richer. That's why you need that money, to tycoons share it with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8248	Mr. Radakovic, Mr. Arsic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. (Janko Radaković, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Radaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8249	I'm calling in an article. 27th and 107th. I have the right to explain that when I'm mentioned. I don't want to talk about the Rules of Procedure anymore. I'd just like two sentences to Mr. Arsic. Now we've exposed the facts. We want money in the city's budget, and you don't give it away, because you put it in the tycoon's pocket. We want to buy expensive buses, we want to pay the bridge on Ada five billion euros, it's not controversial, but you want to put that money in your pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8250	I won't allow you a replica. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you started with a replica. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8251	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we had a very constructive debate, full of dynamics, sometimes at times even excessively dynamic, not to say inappropriate, but I sincerely hope that right after this session is over, it will be all forgotten, because there was simply nothing very smart to hear in such an excessively dynamic debate. What I want to say about today's legal solutions is that, certainly, the URS will support today's proposed legislative solutions, first of all because in this way we are going to cut off the realisation over a hundred investments that have just been stopped because of the failure or some illogicality or illogicality in the current law. The discussion was, as I said, dissonant and certain that not all MPs will vote equally for these legal solutions, but I am pleased that we have all agreed that a good law on planning and construction is necessary in the coming period, and I am sure that in the next six months there is enough time for such a law to be made and that in particular the issue of conversion, which has been so many words today. Finally, once again, we will support these legal solutions, aware that these are only intersteps, but we expect one concrete and serious approach to this area, which will deliver results in attracting investors, but also in the progress of the construction industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8252	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I am concluding a joint principled search and a single search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Navigation and Ports, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. Dear People's MPs, this is what we do today's work. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, I see you've signed up. I'm really sorry if you want a word. Let the minister do it anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8253	I'll be very brief. I want to thank everyone for their attention, for their cooperation, for the discussions we had today. We are pleased if all of this is adopted, to make thousands of builders across Serbia happy, to get paid as soon as possible, these two and a half billion, and to welcome the New Year's holidays and Christmas celebrations as is appropriate for all workers who have earned it. So, thank you all. There may have been some elevated tones and all, but that's normal. I welcome you all. Thank you for your attention, once again, and for your cooperation. Whoever celebrates St. Nicholas, I want happy glory!
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-17-0.u8254	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
