ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the session to be attended by 137 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 156 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would now ask the service of the protocol to introduce the newly elected MPs so they can take an oath and join us in our work. It is about MPs who received the RIK's mandate following the replacement of MPs. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that I establish my mandate to the MPs of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the RIK on the assignment of seats to the MPs in order to complete the seats. Also, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, the mandated immunity issues of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of National MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of the National MPs Nevena Adžmović, Pava Markov, Jasmini Obradović and Prof. Dr Ninoslav Girić selected from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic; Branki Karavidić, Siniši Lazic and Ivan Bauer selected from the election list Choose for a better life – Boris Tadic; Snezani Bogosavljević-Bošković, Slavolju Vlajković, Zoran Radovanovic, Borisav Kovacevic and Bojana Krkić selected from the electoral list Ivica Dačić – SPS-PUPS – JS; Miroslav Čučković, Ani Novković and Vladimir Ilic, selected from the election list of URS – Mladjan Dinkić. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the report by the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Budgetary Immunity Issues, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of MPs of the peoples finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Nevena Adžmović, Pava Markov, Jasmini Obradović, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Girić, Branki Karavidić, Siniši Lazić, Ivana Baure, Snezani Bogosavljević-Bosković, Slavoljuvić, Zoran Radovanovic, Borisavo Kovacevic, Bojana Krkić, Miroslav Čučković, Ani Novković and Vladimir Ilic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. I ask the newly elected Members of the People to come before the bench to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. You have received the resignation of MP Ivica Kotic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of examining this resignation, which has determined that, by resigning, the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and in accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and point (2) of view. Three and four. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected, MP Ivica Kotic, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're going back to work. Considering that today is Thursday, and in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today, shall have the right to request information and explanations on the various issues of the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which it is ordered, and which it needs to carry out its duties as Members of Parliament, except at the meeting of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u641	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, using the right that MPs have today to, on the basis of Article 287, demand notice from representatives of the National Assembly or the Government, I will use that right in front of the DSS. As is known, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia found at its session of July 10th that 22 provisions of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina were not in agreement with the Constitution. To remind me that the DSS and NS parliamentary groups launched an initiative to assess constitutionality before the Constitutional Court on 30 November 2009. Unfortunately, there was a great deal to be expected, and to a large extent the responsibility of the National Assembly, which had not been discussed on the Legislative Committee for a year, but as we spoke and when the debate on the law was held, it was confirmed that a large number of these provisions were not in line with the Constitution. The reactions following the Constitutional Court's decision, which entered into force on 13 July and in fact all those provisions ceased to apply, were different. One was moving towards such a decision by the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court questioned a large number of laws and determined that there were disagreements with the Constitution in many laws, but no one had thought of it, as one direction of opinion felt, that the Constitution should be changed. The law does not agree with the Constitution, we must change the Constitution. The second course of contesting the Constitutional Court's decision went in this sense that the whole thing should be internationalised, not enough internal law, not enough institutions of the Republic of Serbia, we have to go to the international public, the rights are violated here, etc., knowing that, when it comes to this kind of jurisdiction, international institutions do not have that right, but it is necessary to challenge the law of the Constitutional Court that, in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the decision is to be made and to politise the whole matter. The third direction was to ignore that decision. It has no legal consequences, it reflects the value of the problems of the Constitutional Court judges with the fact that some of the responsibilities are anti-constitutional given to Vojvodina, that they will not produce any legal consequences and that it simply goes away, we will not apply that decision. The last opinion on this was that there might actually be no agreement to change the Constitution, but a constitutional law with the power of the Constitution should be passed, where the powers of the Vojvodina would be determined. So we heard a series of suggestions after July 10th and the Constitutional Court's decision regarding all that, except for the right place to discuss it. The Constitutional Court disputed, disputed the jurisdiction of the judges. It was said that these were political decisions, that it had nothing to do with the law, the most important and most important of all our judicial institutions, that it was an anti-civilization disorder, and there was simply one thing that had to be done. This National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in early November 2009. Our MP group then and through amendments indicated that the law was not in accordance with the Constitution. Our MP group and the NS parliamentary group submitted the text of the law to the National Assembly that is in accordance with the Constitution. In order to simply return everything to normal order, so as not to discredit the Constitutional Court, to respect our institutions, to respect our legal order, to respect the Constitution, it is a matter of course for you, the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, Mr Cvian, when this important issue is planned to be found before the National Assembly, because the National Assembly is owned either by the law or by the law to be amended or to pass a new law, no matter how important this matter is. It is extremely important to establish the responsibilities of the Vojvodina because it is prescribed by the Constitution. We cannot allow everything to be politicized and to bring down our institutions and our legal order. I ask you, that these stories be cut off, that this high house should be respected, that this be found before the National Assembly as soon as possible, first before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, then before the National Assembly, and that, in accordance with the Constitution, with the laws, with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they bring laws in accordance with the Constitution. On the day we elected you president of the Assembly, we expected that the practice of passing unconstitutional laws would not continue and that the National Assembly, this new assembly, would be remembered for respecting the Constitution. This is the first opportunity to correct this and to pass a new law establishing the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u642	The next word was registered by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u643	Mr. President, I have a few questions concerning the work of the National Assembly and the work of all of us as MPs, precisely in order to get to, as far as possible, the better texts of the law. Today we will debate as part 1 of the agenda on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why I am asking the question. Considering certain provisions of the Constitution, which is that right ahead. The law enforcement of this area has the NBS in its jurisdiction as well. I'm asking, do you agree with article 107? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and according to the obligations to try to ensure that all interested parties have the opportunity to declare the regulation, is it also, when the NBS is informed of the text of the bill, has it been done in the last 24 hours, before the beginning of the session or earlier? I'd like to point out a few other provisions. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the session to be convened, as a rule, at least seven days before the date set for the start of the session. It's a regular procedure. At this point, we are faced with a request that the bill be considered hours after 24 hours after the bill arrived at the National Assembly. The fact is that many MPs were not informed yesterday morning that the text of the bill had arrived in the Assembly. It was a great effort for all of us who tried to fix that text of the law, to submit amendments. I point out that in the work of the National Assembly so far, we have struggled with the fact that when the legislator proposes something to be adopted by an emergency procedure, in 60% of such cases, when an emergency procedure was proposed, the National Assembly declared that it was not an emergency procedure but a regular procedure. I'd like to make a few more points. The fact is that the President of the National Assembly has the possibility to return the text of the law even to the Proposer, unless the text of the law is drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or in accordance with the uniform and methodological rules for the making of rules. I'm ordering members of 151. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly suggest that, in an explanation of the reasons for the regulation, it should, in particular, give an analysis of the current situation and the problems that the regulation needs to address. I suggest that in this explanation, I have found no analysis of the current situation, no matter what specific goals the law needs to address. I ask in this particular sense – is the NBS informed and is it possible for interested parties to make a statement about the proposal for a regulation? And finally, what really bothered me is that, we know how much we fought to adopt the single methodological rules for making regulations. In Article 60 of that binding regulation, it states that, in addition to the draft law, the proposer delivers a statement that the draft law is in line with EU rules, or that there is no compliance obligation, or that the law is not possible to comply with EU rules. I didn't get a statement like that in the bill. I believe that there were all the conditions and therefore I ask: Is there somewhere that statement, since I did not receive it as a People's MP? If it exists, where does it exist and why isn't it delivered to us?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u644	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u645	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for the government and also for the Prime Minister. Lately, a statement has been made from the president of the state to the head of the new government that everyone will be respected to reach agreements on Kosovo and we have some kind of appeal for some consensus. I guess, not about whether the agreements so far will be respected, but about what follows – energy agreement, agreement on telecommunications, etc. In this light, the latest is happening, I would say, a crisis in northern Kosovo, where the situation with KFOR is tightened, because it blocks the passage of alternative routes, alternative roads, or, let's call them illegal, past official crossings, vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. The unquestionable fact is that the previous government adopted the Regulation in December of last year, which regulated the regime at border crossings or lines, as you are pleased, with Kosovo. There are 11 such crossings and they include Brnjak and Jarinje. The regulation provides fines for those people who do not use official crossings. The regulation provides for a fine of five to 50,000 dinars for those who cross the border themselves outside the crossings, and 15 to 150,000 dinars for the group, for two or more persons. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask Ivica Dacic – if this government says it will respect the agreements reached, when will this regulation start to apply, I mentioned this regulation because of the current situation and the tightening of the situation in northern Kosovo, but also other regulations? You know, if you say that you will really be committed to the European path of Serbia, and the condition for the further continuation of European integration is normalisation of relations with Pristina and, among other things, the application of the agreements reached and the continuation of dialogue that will lead to new agreements, and you do not apply the regulation that you can already do, because it is simply impossible for the government to implement these regulations and which commit and the new government, that you need a consensus to do so. There's no consensus here, the previous government brought it in, and you say you'll respect it. There's your consensus. Not to mention that in your government half of the former government sits here, from Dinkic, Dacic, Ljajic, Ugljanin, etc., which means you have continuity with the previous government. What happened in principle between the new government and the old government and what's the difference? Instead of DS, he is now the main party of the SNS government. Therefore, you must respect that. I ask Dacic, the prime minister, when he will start applying the regulation and respect the regulation, to reduce tensions that are certainly not in favour of continuing dialogue with Pristina. Remember that the LDP has stood up for this dialogue since its founding. It came to him, unfortunately, late and dishonest. The previous government, apparently, did not respect that regulation itself. And so, if you want to be different from the previous government, I don't mean this part of the government that was in the previous government, I don't expect them to be different, but from you who are new to that government, you have to answer me, or LDP, when will this regulation be respected? Otherwise, we've always been for consensus, but around new and proper politics. We believe that the consensus on the wrong policy is harmful, and anyone who advocates a consensus on the wrong policy, in principle, does harm to the country, and anyone who is against consensus on the wrong policy, it benefits the country. So far we've had a consensus, we've come all this way because of the consensus on the wrong policy. I hope that the consensus on the new policy towards Kosovo will indeed follow, but for what is agreed and what is repeatedly promised to implement no consensus is necessary. The government should finally start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u646	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u647	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, if any of your colleagues can turn off their cell phone before I start speaking. The sports minister speaks of politicians not being in the sport and the SPO and DHSS MPs' club supporting the stance. So I would ask her a question – what will she do next, what will the Ministry do, what will the state of Serbia do to try to persuade individual party officials to leave the boards and sports organisations of clubs and teams to follow European standards, European standards? European sports organisations prescribe or require, even many teams and are suspended from major competitions because politics is not involved in sports. Last night we saw him stagnating Serbian club sport. In the next period, I think, we'll have even worse results. In the previous period, we had catastrophic results, and politicians certainly did not belong in sports. For some of them we know and who they are, we know that they don't even know how many balls there are valves, we know that their interest isn't sports nature or improving the working conditions of sports companies. So I would ask the question of another minister - how does she think she will succeed in eradicating the phenomenon that political party officials are crowding into sports associations and boards of individual clubs? Especially since we have a problem with the violence in the stadiums, and I think it's even harder to solve it if the people in power are. It's not the government's specialty, it's the specialty of previous governments, and I think it would be good to support the sports minister, but she has to come out with concrete measures if she wants to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u648	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 105 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. With a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was called upon at the request of 105 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the Fifth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, the next Dn e v n e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, 2. The choice of Protector of the Citizens. We're going to work on the agenda. I am opening the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank of Serbia. You have received the bill of law, which was submitted by 105 MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there any suggestion that this time of debate will be longer? No, I don't. ) Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia - six minutes, the six minutes and six minutes respectively – the SPO group of the six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Veroljub Arsic - from the SNS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the MP's representative, MP Veroljub Arsic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the public has been speculating about the National Bank of Serbia for a long time, and it shows itself as the NBS and its governor as victims of the new government in the Republic of Serbia. However, the bill itself does not affect who will be governor, but sets out certain other conditions under which the NBS should function. Many have objected to the way in which the session is called and the urgency of the proceedings, and usually the urgency of the proceedings and the way in which such sessions are called together, are explained by the fact that they can have adverse consequences if a certain law is not passed. I can say that because of the way the NBS, its actions or not, the adverse consequences for the state of Serbia have already occurred. Under the pretext of independence and independence, he asks her a question – does he who makes the wrong decisions also have responsibility for these wrong decisions? Many of my fellow MPs have criticised this law. The opposition's right to criticise, but one other question is the responsibility of the parliamentary function it performs. It is we who have been entrusted by the citizens with the right to lead the state through a system of legislative authority. We're the ones who need to control the government, we're the ones who need to control the NBS. Previous amendments and additions to the National Bank Act, as if the NBS were to be kidnapped, were to be declared out of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we have these problems right now. According to the existing National Bank Act, the independence of the Central Bank is presented as a basic principle, which in itself is a goal, although the principle is, above all, functional independence and a means of achieving the Central Bank's goal. Maintaining the stability of prices, although under the constitution is part of the executive government, is almost made by the bearer of a special branch of government. Independence and independence, in relation to the executive power, is one of the conditions for the Central Bank to effectively exercise its role, however it cannot question the supervision that the legislative authority, as the first representative of citizens, of the holders of sovereignty, must exercise over the entire executive power, including the Central Bank. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 95, that is our right as MPs, but also our obligation to do so. That's why the citizens chose us. It is often an excuse that this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law, is not in line with the central bank control and supervision system in the EU. I can tell you that largely their model system and control of the central grandmothers have been used. The key papers adopted by this bill are the following – restoring the supervisory function to the National Assembly, selecting all officials of the National Bank of Serbia by the National Assembly, education of the supervision of financial institutions within the National Bank of Serbia, extending the competence of the National Bank Council, limiting the authority of governors and the executive board, changing the mandate of the members of the Council, increasing the responsibility of the officials, limiting the compensation at the end of the function, precision of the country's credit ban, regulation of internal audit, regulation of violations and safeguards for non-compliance of the law. Article 1 of the law sets out the function of the National Bank of Serbia in relation to payment traffic in previous changes and additions to the National Bank Act. I guess someone's trying to avoid responsibility. He abolished the National Bank's right to control the country's payments to economic and financial organisations abroad. He transferred this by referring to the Government Act to the Ministry of Finance Affairs. Those who have at least had a few points of contact with payment know that not a single cent, not a single euro, can leave the country without the knowledge and consent of the National Bank, and this avoidance of responsibility is seen in the fact that the Ministry of Finance should send a foreign currency inspectorate from the economic operator to the economic operator, to determine whether the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act have been violated, or to request a report from the National Bank, but that we understand the executive authority cannot ask the National Bank to do so, and that is one of the papers in this law. Article 2 – returns and confirms the competent function of the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution. The National Assembly is scheduled to confirm the Statute of the National Bank of Serbia. Since many important issues are regulated by it, for reasons, because legal solutions cannot be all in the law itself, but also in sublaws they are dealt with. In earlier amendments and additions to the Law, the National Bank adopted the statutes itself, no one checked the compliance of the Statutes of the National Bank with the Law on the National Bank and other laws that function in the country's legal system and only published it in the Official Messenger. Our natural right is to give consent to one of these financial organizations, the central bank, to its statutes. We also give much less important bodies to state administrations, let alone not or should we give consent to the Statute of the National Bank and check that it is in line with the legislative and constitutional order in the state. Article 3 is added by a new member who provides for the education of a special organisation, the Supervisory Authority of financial institutions, which should ensure greater independence in the performance of the National Bank's supervision and control of the operations of banks, insurance companies, voluntary pension funds and other financial institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the National Bank that determines the value of all financial organisations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which operate in accordance with the law and the permission to work in the National Bank. On the basis of the control of these financial reports, that rating shall be determined. It seems to me that the National Bank has failed most, to the extent that the state will have to get out of the taxpayers' pocket, that due to the poor control carried out by the National Bank, it will single out 350m to 400m euros in the next period. Article 3 is added to a new member who provides for special organisation education, the Supervisory Authority of financial institutions. In addition to the responsibility of the Governor of the Executive Board, Article 4 introduces and responsibilities of the Supervisory Board for the tasks it performs. Article 5 establishes the composition of the Executive Board, in addition to the governors and the vice governors, the members of the Executive Board and the Director of the Supervisory Board. Article 6 sets out the adoption of a foreign reserve management strategy, which is separate from the conduct of a foreign reserve policy. It is necessary, instead of the Executive Board, that the National Bank Council adopts a strategy for the management of foreign reserves as a special document within which the policy established and managed by the Executive Board will move. In this way, broad powers of the Executive Board, division of responsibilities, control and possible timely response are reduced. Article 7 provides that a regulation in the area of supervision of financial institutions shall be adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Supervisory Authority. The provisions have been simplified since the definition of financial institutions has been given. The establishment of a supervisory authority, the granting of preliminary approvals shall be transferred to its jurisdiction, as well as any other powers in the exercise of supervisory control over financial institutions, for which the National Bank of Serbia is responsible, and in the jurisdiction of the Executive Board, the issue and withdrawal of licences shall remain on a proposal from the Supervisory Authority. Article 8 is amended as follows: A law listing restrictions in the choice of governors, which apply to other officials. The connected faces are wider, but more precisely defined. Changes have been made that allow a connected person to alienate actions, i.e. shares. The provisions have been simplified in line with the definition of financial institutions. Article 9 changes the body that chooses the governor's jokes. Since vices are the governors of the Executive Board, the authority with the highest authority within the National Bank of Serbia and that they can revote the governor by number, it is necessary to elect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the jokes of the governors. Such a solution has been accepted in the laws of all countries in the environment. Article 10 defines the authority of the Supervisory Authority for legal technical reasons, where supervision of financial institutions is defined. The Supervisory Authority has been designated to carry out all tasks related to the supervisory and control role of the National Bank. In addition to the adoption of rules in the area, which is adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Supervisory and Disposal Authority, which is also decided by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Supervisory Authority. In this way, better control of the credits of financial reports and business of banks and other financial institutions is provided, and better protection of financial service users. The Director of the Supervisory Board shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee, and he shall be next to the Governor and Vice Governor of the Executive Board. The choice of authority, as well as the incompatibility of this function with the function of the vice governor, should be ensured already in the personal and functional independence of the Supervisory Authority, which will be responsible for performing the supervisory and control functions of the National Bank of Serbia. The term of office of the Director shall correspond to the term of office of the Governor and the vice governor. Article 11 provides for a member's term of office to be up to five years, with the possibility of re-election. Article 12 extends the powers of power of the Council. The mandate of the Council shall be passed on to the following tasks – on a proposal from the Executive Board, it shall adopt a strategy for the management of foreign reserves, it shall decide on membership of international financial organisations and institutions, it shall elect managers in the organisation unit of the National Bank for Internal Auditions. In this way, the Council will play an extended role, in relation to purely control and supervision, and that this is needed in addition to the above-mentioned arguments, the fact that the laws of most countries in an environment closer to joining the European Union than Serbia, and whose laws have been made in the respect of the European one. Article 13 provides for the obligation for the governor to submit a report to the Council on the implementation of monetary policy three months as chairman of the Executive Board, while the Supervisory Board is obliged to submit a report to the Council on supervision of financial institutions, including reports on the financial institutions granted and issued. In order to carry out the tasks under its jurisdiction, it is prescribed that the Council may request the Executive Board, the Governor and the Supervisory Authority to provide him with the relevant documentation. Article 14 is complemented by the appointment of the director of the administration as functionator of the National Bank of Serbia. Article 15 shall be amended to bring the existing Article 27 in line with other amendments to the law. All National Bank officials resign to the National Assembly who chose them. Article 17 defines a period of prohibition of employment for officials of the National Bank. Article 21 shall comply with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law relating to the Education of the Supervisory Authority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the reasons for passing one of these laws is that the National Bank has failed to exercise its primary function, which is financial stability in the market and control of financial organisations. If a state bank, i.e. with state-owned capital, falsifys the report with the help of the auditory house and the National Bank gives it consent to that report, even approves the dividend payment, and then in just three months of 428 million dinars, it becomes a loss of two billion and 270 million dinars, and to this day it is tenfold increased, the question arises – how does the National Bank function? Through the introduction of these newspapers in the control itself, financial control of financial entities and supervision of the activities of financial entities and the transfer of more power to several factors, it is reduced and prevented these later cases from happening. So that this law does not, in any part of it, enter into the independence of the National Bank, because independence is reflected in the fact that no one has the right, not even the MPs, nor any of the executive authorities, to enter into the way decisions are made and decisions taken by the governor and the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia. However, independence itself does not mean that those who make the wrong decisions do not answer to anyone for these wrong decisions and that is the purpose of making such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u650	Thank you. The mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group is Mr Radojko Obradovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u651	I'm not answering as authorized, I'm asking for information on the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Article 152. The Rules of Procedure, all laws contained in the procedure, must be directed to the government, i.e. the National Bank of Serbia or the Citizens' Protector, who can also be authorised by law by legislators. Would you be kind enough to tell me, since we are already on the move to debate, has the opinion of the government and the National Bank of Serbia arrived, because it would certainly help make this debate more quality?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u652	To inform you, the bill went to the National Bank of Serbia on August 1, 2012, we have evidence of a photocopy. There's no obligation, according to the Rules of Procedure, to deliver an opinion to us, so we haven't won anything by now. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u653	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Central Bank Act, that is, the shift and choice of governors, is an important issue in every country. This is also an important issue in much richer and more orderly countries. For this reason, when these topics were on the agenda, SVM was always cautiously and responsibly approaching this agenda point, whether at certain times we were in opposition or were part of the ruling coalition. In 2007, we voted for the election of the then governor, Mr. Jelasic, and later we supported amendments to the National Bank Act, when we were already part of the ruling coalition, so we voted for the current governor a little later, so we had a principled approach to this issue. From the proposer's representatives, we heard an explanation of the bill and this economic explanation, first of all, an explanation from an economic and professional aspect. We think this issue is much more political and much more a matter of European integration at this point, so in my discussion, I will first and foremost apostrophe this aspect of the amendments to the National Bank Act. I can immediately simplify the essence of today's agenda at the beginning, it's practically creating conditions for the replacement of the current or current governor of the National Bank, and for this reason I will try to talk about this bill. From what I've said, the SVM parliamentary group will vote against this bill, and I have to say it right away. I'll try to explain why we'll do it that way. First of all, there are procedural reasons why we feel this law should not be supported. This certainly includes the fact that this extremely important law is being considered by an urgent procedure, without organising a public debate. If we compare that fact to the report on Serbia's progress for each year in the European integration process, we can only conclude that it is one of the problems that was present and which, unfortunately, will obviously continue to exist, because clearly the political will remains that way. On the other hand, perhaps the more important procedural reason for our opposition is the fact that, according to our assessment, this bill is not made up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Namely, in Article 151. The rules of procedure are defined to provide a table of compliance with the relevant EU legal rules in a situation where such EU rules exist. The bill states that there are no relevant EU rules, which is not true. The interpretation of the bill is flawed because of the fact that it contains one false sentence and I will talk about it much more later. The third procedural reason is the absence of consultations with European institutions. Neither the European Commission nor the European Central Bank have been consulted in the process of drafting this bill, which is a problem because of the fact that in this area, in the area of regulation of central banks' positions, according to EU rules, the standard is a mandatory consultation, primarily with the European Central Bank. With the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, it is one part of the Lisbon Treaty, Member States are obliged to send all these solutions, all these draft laws relating to the position of central banks to consult and request the opinion of the European Central Bank. I know we're not a Member State, but if we want to become a Member State, then we should also respect this procedural condition or the procedural standard. In addition to all these procedural reasons, there are far more important reasons why we cannot support this bill. First of all, I will talk about this later in detail, this bill is not in line with EU law, which means that if Serbia adopts this law, it will violate Article 72. The SAA which has committed to align its legal system with EU legal assets, because if there is one legal act that is in conformity at this time and which becomes incompatible after the adoption of the new act, that means that we are in breach of, in practice, the obligation we have made to comply with our legal system with European legal assets. On the other hand, this law also constitutes a violation of the fulfilled obligations to obtain candidate status. In fact, previous reports on the European Commission's progress found that the National Bank of Serbia is largely independent, that the National Bank is one of those independent institutions whose position has been regulated satisfactorily. To remind you, one of the 10 conditions for obtaining candidate status was to edit or raise the level of independence of these so-called so-called. independent institutions. So that was one of the conditions for getting candidate status. If we question an independent institution, or the independence of such an institution in this way, it means that we will violate what we have already fulfilled. The most important reason why we are against this bill is practically one point in the Lisbon Treaty, the EU's founding contract, the EU's highest legal act, which is point 14/2 of Protocol 4. The Lisbon Treaty. This part of the Lisbon Treaty regulates the issue of the European System of Central Banks and contains the Statute of the European Central Bank. What is the essence of this part of European legal fluids? The bottom line, to make it simple, is that the resolution of central banks, according to EU rules, is possible only in two cases. The first case is if the governor no longer fulfils the conditions for performing his duties. So he no longer meets the conditions for choice. Another option is if he commits a serious injury to his duties. That's two possible reasons. So, if you look at the EU's highest legal act, you can only conclude that there is no possibility in any case for the governor of the National Bank to stop the function in the manner in which it is foreseen by this draft law. So, against his will and with these two terms of resolution that I have spoken of, it is not possible by law to shorten his mandate in this way. This is an unequivocal position of the European Commission, which the European Commission has otherwise proved in the case of Hungary, since due to a similar situation, not with the governor, but with the Ombudsman for the protection of personal data, it has launched a dispute before the European Court of Justice against Hungary over the violation of the EU's founding contracts. So, due to the fact that, in Hungary, otherwise, it was done with a new constitution, the term of office of an independent institution was shortened. Therefore, it is essential that Member States only have two options when it comes to the way the Central Bank Governor is resolved or resolved. One is to take these two reasons from the Lisbon Treaty, to decidently write into their legal system these two reasons. The second is that they state no reason in their laws, since the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty are directly applied in this situation. That is the essence and that is the main reason why this law is not in line with EU law. On the other hand, and this is an additional obligation for Member States, it will also be an obligation for us, in addition to respecting these two reasons for resolution, all Member States must establish a procedure that enables unreserved respect for these two reasons. So, they don't have Member States, and at one point neither will we, hopefully, have the opportunity to establish any procedure that would allow, either Parliament, or the President of the Republic, or the Prime Minister, to, in breach of those two reasons that I was talking about, in some way, resolve the Governor of the Central Bank in some way. That's where I want it, because I have plenty of time for her to prove on another case from neighboring Hungary what I was talking about. At the end of last year, the Hungarian parliament passed a new central bank law, which otherwise dealt with many issues, primarily by reducing the governor's salary, but in one part it also dealt with the issue or procedure of the central bank's governor's resolution. The original law, adopted last year, provides for a procedure under which the prime minister of the republic, on a proposal from the prime minister, resolves the governor, but following a court procedure conducted in court for labour disputes. So, first the governor has the opportunity to initiate a working-law dispute and if the court's decision is to establish the reasons for its resolution, then, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic can resolve the governor. It was originally the intended procedure. Neither has the procedure, therefore, practically the judicial protection of the position of the Governor of the Central Bank, the European Commission, or the European Central Bank, agreed, so it asked the Hungarian Parliament to amend the law, in the sense that it unequivocally established the obligation of the Court to take no other reason to take into account the resolution of the governors, only the two reasons I spoke of. So, if the governor loses, he no longer fulfils the conditions for choice, or if he commits a serious injury to his duties. Hungary was obliged to supplement that view of the law with that provision, in practice to abolish even the court's ability to consider any other circumstances. I think that this example clearly proves enough that the practical solution is unsustainable to reduce the term of office and to resolve the governor by amending and supplementing the law in this way. On the other hand, and that's an example from the neighbouring country, I don't think we should underline the importance of co-operation with the IMF. The International Monetary Fund until the time of adoption of these amendments to the Central Bank Act in Hungary was not ready to start any negotiations or talks. The moment the law is in line with European legal assets, i.e. with the request of the European Central Bank, conditions were created for the start of talks with the IMF. I'm afraid we'll be in this situation very soon. So, what's important, of course, for making a decision is all this is what I'm talking about. On the other hand, there are countless statements that dramatize this situation that will be created. I must say, we have no understanding of such attitudes either, because of the experience we have gained over the past four years. This is not the first time in four or five years that an independent institution has been threatened. Several years ago, perhaps two years ago, this parliament adopted its Rules of Procedure, which envisioned the possibility of determining the responsibility of independent regulatory bodies and, of course, sanctioning them if they determine their responsibility. At the pressure of the European Commission, we had to change ourselves, i.e. to erase practically that possibility. It might be a little parallel. It's probably a more significant parallel to judicial reform. So there's a lot of similarities. The reform of the judiciary was done in a way that practically a large part of the municipal courts had been abolished, renamed to the basic courts and thus the possibility of abolishing the continuity of the judicial function was found. It's very, very similar to what's happening right now. Of course, the fact is that the previous governor has been replaced in one way. He was not formally removed, as he resigned, but was practically exposed to such both media and political pressure that he eventually resigned. It's the same example from some recent past, which tells us that for the dramaticization of this situation and the dramaticization of the consequences that will come about for sure there is no basis. But what it is is the fact that this new law and new amendments to the law will certainly damage Serbia's European integration process. I don't think anyone in the O.R. is ready to argue. In fact, this new government does not only have a large budget deficit, but also has a significant confidence deficit by European institutions. Instead of building trust and increasing, this way, with such a big step, this trust is further reduced. So, I don't think that the unfounded announcements that tell us that we will practically find ourselves in a position to get a date of negotiations, or to get a date for the start of negotiations, will no longer only have a Kosovo problem, but we will again have a problem with the position of independent institutions. It would be or it would certainly be one big damage in Serbia's European integration process, but I cannot imagine a report in advance by the European Commission, which will be published in October that in the work concerning independent institutions, there is not one fierce criticism of what is happening today in parliament. This will, of course, mean practicality in the practical sense of the inability for Serbia to get a date for the start of negotiations in December. So, all of these reasons that I have cited lead us to vote against this bill, and members of the ruling majority should call for another thought, or another round of thinking about this bill, because it will be practically impossible to eliminate the consequences that will arise. There will be no possibility that these consequences of the amendment will be corrected in the process, for example, or in relation to judicial reform. Because if the governor is replaced, a new governor will be elected, then there's no possibility of any reviewing the decision. All in all, that's our attitude. So, we will vote as SVM MPs against, once again, I urge you to reconsider all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u654	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u655	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't mix things up. You know, the Republic of Serbia changed the Constitution, so we re-elected parliament and no one objected to it from the European Commission. She changed the Constitution, we re-elected the President of the Republic. If you expect court proceedings, then you need to look at the way the governor of the Central Bank is appointed in Hungary. It is appointed by the executive authority, not by legislation, not by the announcement of debates, it has no protection, it is appointed by the executive authority. When it comes to independence, there is a difference between independence and independence. The National Bank under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been adopted for now on the European Commission, said in Article 95 that the National Bank is independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly. This is about amendments to the law, which introduces a new way of running the National Bank. New regulatory bodies are being installed at the National Bank. And it is quite logical that when such a law is passed with new powers and governors and other regulatory bodies to choose a new governor under this new law. If it's gonna be old and new, it's another hypothetical question now. It depends on the proposal of the President of the Republic, but don't let us get into it and classify the same president of one state and Prime Minister with the National Assembly. It can't be the same. That's why there must be judicial protection from the executive. Looking at the practice of the European Central Bank, it is a supranational organisation and there must be judicial protection there. Let's see, the German Bank, the Central Bank, members of the Executive Board are appointed by the President of the State and the President and Vice-President of one member on a proposal from the Federal Government, and the remaining three members on the proposal of the upper home parliament, so executive power. As another EU member, the Austrian Central Bank is an obvious example, members of the Board of Governors, Vice Governors and two other members are appointed by the president of the state, all on a proposal from the federal government. One such way of putting the governor of the National Bank, in Serbia is far more liberal, far more free than it does in some countries that are the founders of the EU. When you can do more, you can do less, it's still a higher body, it's the legislative authority. I do not know that the courts other than the Constitutional Court questioned the decision on the legislative authority. I don't think there are any such examples in developed democratic systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u656	Thank you. Replica, MP Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u657	First of all, you do not have to go into debate with me, you will have to lead this debate with representatives, or EU institutions, especially the European Commission, perhaps the European Central Bank. That's one thing. The other thing is that you have cited examples of how the governor of the Central Bank is appointed, say, Germany. We weren't talking today, and I wasn't talking about the way the governor is being set up, that's not controversial. It's a slow way to resolve, and you have to understand that. No authority of any EU Member State has the ability to resolve the governor, except in those two cases that I have cited, so unless it fulfils the conditions for choice and makes it a serious violation of its duties. I repeat again, I was talking about a solution and I want to repeat an example from the recent past. The European Commission has launched a procedure for failing to fulfil its obligations under the founding contracts against Hungary, because the adoption of the new Constitution has practically shortened the mandate of an independent institution and that of the Ombudsman for the protection of personal data. The European Commission's position will be at the end of the European Court's view, that the mandate cannot be shortened even if the highest legislative authority, for example, the people of one state change the Constitution, because these functions, in particular, relate to the function of governors, are protected in this regard. I repeat once again, I did not speak, and do not speak in response about the position, but about the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u658	Thank you, Mr. Varga. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u659	If we're going to be so precise, then what provision of the law do we resolve the governor? So the provisions that exist in the National Bank Act on the discharge of governors are not changed, they remain, are not subject to amendments and additions to this law. You can't have one body that's a constitutional category, which is precisely defined by law, to change the way it's committed, and to keep the old leadership. That's the problem. If it didn't change, we wouldn't even be able to set a condition for the new leadership of the National Bank of Serbia in transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u660	Replica, Mr. Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u661	I know there's no real replica on the line, but just for a little while. Of course, there's a way of solving that's explicit, and that's those members you're talking about, that don't change. If you read Article 26. The bill, I think, is that this unequivocally stems from the intention, and since, according to announcements, next week, we will have a session that will be dedicated to the election of a new governor, who will not be old, perhaps not next, then in September, it will not matter, it will be the best evidence that was the motivations when this law was passed. Once again, you'll have to explain all this to the European Commission. You'll have to explain all this when they make up the next report in advance. All of this will have to be explained when they write in their next progress report that Serbia has returned one step backwards on this issue. It is the damage this law will produce and it is completely irrelevant whether this solution is done in a way that is consistent with those members who talk about resolution or with this lex specialis, which contains Article 26. A bill that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u662	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Unique Serbia and its coalition partners, the SPS and the PUPS, will support this proposal for a bill on the National Bank for a number of reasons. We spoke on the first working day in parliament about what is most urgent for the citizens of Serbia today -- to stop it from falling. I think it is the biggest problem, given that 60% of Serbian citizens are in charge of banks, that giant, commercial collectives also have a lot of credit, and that monetary policy in Serbia has not been satisfactory in recent years. It should give Parliament the right to change that law that has so far given great authority to individuals in powerful institutions, such as the National Bank in the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that I don't know in which country this morning it is announced that tomorrow morning there will be a euro rate for so much and so much and that there will be a dinar for so much and so much and then there will be mental anxiety in the public that they can't sleep, that there are perhaps two or three entities in Serbia that know how much money will fall tomorrow, so that they can make certain transactions and benefit their businesses or themselves. I would also like to remind you that the euro course in 2008 was 76 dinars, and that today, August 2012, the euro rate is 118 dinars and slightly higher, that 55% is a higher rate today than four years ago. The average salary in Serbia in 2008 was 31,284,00 dinars, and the average salary in Serbia in August 2012 is 42,335,00 dinars. The rate has increased by 55% and the salary is 34% higher. These are the average salaries, ladies and gentlemen. In the interior, there are workers who are employed in businesses who receive a salary of between 20 and 25 thousand dinars. If the National Bank continues to lead monetary policy in the coming period as it is, and it is known that many factories have been placed on the gates and that these factories today are not working because of the decline of the dinars and because of this drastic growth of the euro course, but the family gate chain that has four, five members, be sure that we will not allow, when a five-member family opens the door in the morning to say – we are now in a minus, our family, for a thousand dinars. We watched it year by year, we looked and suffered and I believe that this is not 15 to 12, that this is 12.15 to change the Law on the National Bank and that the governor and other members of the National Bank Council report to the Assembly every six months, as was given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia every last quarter of the month and as will be given by this new government every last quarter of the month, a report on what they were doing during the last period of time. Also, the drop in dinars and growth in the euro course has affected agricultural products and other products in Serbia, as the price of fuel has increased by 60% in four years in Serbia, while agricultural products have remained the same since 2004. How can Serbia fight the white plague when we do not have new jobs, when the arrival of investors in Serbia in the past seven months has been stopped in order to reach new jobs, and it is known when the white plague is concerned that 35,000 people die more in Serbia every year than they are born. We can say that all this is happening because of the decline in the euro rate and because of the monetary policy that has affected both the lives of large businesses and companies and that small man. This parliament must take care of any entity representing Serbian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to see where our foreign exchange reserves are. The previous colleague said we must respect European laws and European standards. A united Serbia and our coalition partners, the SPS and the PUPS, are struggling to join the EU and gain candidate status, but it seems we have obtained candidate status for EU candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot pass all the laws that apply in EU countries, and are adapted to the standard of EU income citizens, and when we look at the standard of citizens in Serbia. I am sure that Serbia will wait at least six, seven years to join the EU, not because of some political party that was in power before or now, but it is known that the EU is not so easily receiving some new family member with a biography that we have had for the past 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take care of both agricultural producers and pensioners. And pensioners are users of some loans. Pensioners made all those factories that were sold, and their pensions grow so little, though they grow, and when we look at that, in four years, the rate of the euro is 55% higher and those salaries that have grown in state, social and public enterprises and in private too, when we look at the rate of the euro in previous years. What do we need to do about the emergency procedure? Let's hear what the plan and program of the new governor is, to support, because I'm sure the proposed candidate for governor is very experienced when it comes to monetary policy. Ladies and gentlemen, don't let the laws bring us cabinet theorists, as was the last 20 years in Serbia. People who, most and not all of them, have never done anything in their lives, except that they were concerned with the theory that when a bill is proposed, those to whom the law will be applied tomorrow must be consulted. This has not been the case in Serbia in recent years. I hope that not only this law on the People's Bank and the next laws that we are going to pass in this House, we must consult those to whom the law will apply and that those to whom the law applies, first of all, benefit the states from it, and that those who are bonds have no harm. If we continue like this, we will soon have much more users than taxpayers in Serbia. No country in Europe can have economic stability if there are more users than the taxpayers. The JS Parliament Club and our coalition partners SPS and PUPS, in voting day, will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u664	Thank you. National MP Radojko Obradovic, then Mr Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u665	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate on this important law will begin with a quote from the governor's election two years ago. At the Fourth Extraordinary Session, July 20, 2010, we had a agenda point – the end of the National Bank Governor's office and the election of a new one. I concluded my presentation at the session with the following words: "No governor has welcomed the end of his term since 2000. Or they were replaced, but they resigned. We'll see when this six-year term ends." Unfortunately, the mandate ended after two years, because it is more than clear. This is the first law since the formation of the government and this is the first time MPs in the Serbian Parliament can see how the ruling coalition, which has just been formed, intends to solve problems. One is a pre-election campaign, one is promises, one is interviews, but only through the laws can we see how and which way the ruling coalition will go. The first question is, why is the first law to adopt this assembly after the formation of the government, the Law on the National Bank of Serbia? We got the law yesterday morning, sometime between 10:00 and 11:00 a.m. We had 24 hours to analyze it, to look at what was important, to discuss it today. The NBS did not deliver an opinion. The NBS representatives, although invited, did not come to the Finance Committee, especially in light of the fact that the NBS can also be the legislator of the law, as can the MPs, as can the citizens. In this case, they were expected not to come. It would be much better if they were here and we could discuss all these issues with them. In such a short time, no wonder they couldn't react. The latest current law was passed two years ago, in June 2010. He was explained here in the Assembly by the governor who has already resigned, Governor Jelasic. Then he said he resigned for personal reasons, and a few years later we heard he was under pressure, at least so claimed by his colleagues and friends. Then a new governor was elected, so that at the session he was elected, unfortunately my predecessor, the governor did not tolerate the exposé of the Assembly. There is no space and there is no change in that provision of a law whereby a man who chooses for such an important function will come out with his program before the MPs. According to the NBS Act, the President of the Republic proposes. At the time, we had an objection, and now we also have an objection and we were unable to intervene, because according to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot intervene on the provisions of laws that are not changed. It is important for the governor to come before the MPs and tell them what his work programme is. This is particularly important if we take into account the responsibilities of the governor and the importance of the NBS for the stability of our financial system. Often, different officials are added to competences, or they are willing to talk in public about many things that are not their portfolio, but NBS is the cornerstone of the financial system. It's not right to vote for biographies only. It's not right that we're just voting for indications of what someone's going to do. One is an indication, one is a biography, and the other is a program to be submitted to the National Assembly. You can control someone, check their work only if you have measurable promises and measurable goals that they would set in their own exposé and during the election. I'm sorry the agenda isn't the governor's work, the governor's shift proposal or something. This debate so far and all that's been in the papers and the public for the last few days shows there's been a lot of material we could talk about. There was plenty of room to talk about the program and what the NBS and the governor were doing over the past two years. Unfortunately, it's not the point, it's the point of amending the National Bank Act. 29 members have been proposed to be changed. The Statute of the NBS shall be confirmed in the National Assembly. Of course, we don't mind. That's what the Council's been doing so far. The Council will do so in the future, but we in the congregation will be able to express our view of such an important act. The Vice Governor is now elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the governor. It's also not bad, but it's going to be the same situation, we're going to vote for biography, the governor's going to propose, but it's much better to open up a debate about it and publicly say what we think about individual members, not read in the newspaper who's set up as a vice governor. We think it's a good thing we're setting up a supervisory board for financial institutions. We don't think that NBS function was strong enough. We don't think the NBS has done that job well enough. Setting up, forming a administration and forming a law, setting up a director of the administration, also elected by the National Assembly, is a good thing. But I'm afraid we can get into the situation we talk about in Serbia relatively often. Since we are directly elected by the President in Serbia, we are choosing Parliament directly, then there is the possibility that Parliament and the Government, namely the President and the Government, may be from the same party and may also be from two different parties. When they're from the same party, there's no problem. If they're from different parties, then there's a problem and theoretical debate whether it's good for the system to function. Following the proposed proposal, the Finance Committee proposes the Director of the Financial Control Board. All other officials are proposed – the President of the Republic proposes a governor, the governor proposes a vice governor or vice governor, the Council proposes a National Assembly, and the Director of the Board proposes a Finance Committee. It's all great if it's all in one party's power. And what if it isn't? Are we going to change the law again and invent a new article 26, which will regulate that question? I heard there were different objections about whether the vice governor should be elected by the National Assembly, whether the National Assembly should choose other officials? There are different models in world practice. There are other models, and there's a model like this, and we don't see anything wrong with adopting the proposed solution. It's interesting that ways of choosing functionors are changed, and that the solution method remains the same. This is not consistent until the end, because if the choice is changed, it was logical to align it and the way these officials are resolved. Of course, a similar member of this law is Article 26, which stipulates that within 90 days of the date of entry into force, all authorities of the NBS – Governor, Vice Governor and NBS Council will be elected. When the law is carefully looked at, it is clear that, as this debate is, we are conducting two discussions today. We're having a debate on the National Bank Act, but we're also having a debate on the resolution of current management, not only of the governor, but of all the other officials. That doesn't have to be controversial, but that's clearly to be said. Today we actually have 28 members of the law, plus one member of the law regarding the election of leadership. That's a fact. Once again, I would like to stress that the agenda item is a request for the governor's shift. We'd also have materials to talk about, and we'd be happy to vote for the governor's resolution, because we think he was doing his job badly, but we don't think this is a model of work. On the other hand, it would be very important to open a debate on the work of the NBS, precisely because in the next few days we will choose a new governor and to facilitate the job of the new governor. It's not the governor or the ruling majority or individual parties, it's the governor of the NBS. The entire financial system and the stability of the financial system, above all, besides other important parameters, is also based on the impression that it exists. If we make the impression that everything is in place with us, we won't have a problem with foreign investors either, we won't have many other problems. If we make the impression that by changing one member of the law, we can change the governor today, tomorrow the judge, the day after tomorrow, that picture is not good enough. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia also said in today's debate on the Finance Committee that the National Bank is independent. The law states that the National Bank is independent and independent. Often, these two concepts, independence and independence are mixed. Of course it's not the same. Let me give you an example. My daughter is six years old, she gets up every morning, she gets dressed herself, she brushes her teeth, she knows how to wash herself, she eats on her own, she reads, she knows how to come home from certain points. She's completely independent in her function, but she's not a bit independent, because it depends on her parents, on me and my wife. It doesn't matter if she's independent or independent. She has to be independent and independent in order to function. What is the main attack on the independence of the National Bank? Who's the biggest threat to the independence of the National Bank? In all countries, the National Bank's independence threatens the government. No matter what they seem to have the same goals, when countries such as Serbia, the National Bank and the Government are carefully observed, and this will show in the next few months. In this assembly, we will discuss that the opposing will be the objectives of the National Bank by law and by the objectives set by the Government for itself and its programme. To return to a key member of the law, since we have no more serious objections to the other members. We have several amendments, they will be discussed on the day when amendments are discussed. Our key regret is on article 26. We also heard an explanation of why it is. For you, the question is, is it the governor's shift a matter of personality, a matter of politics conducted by the National Bank, or is it a matter of poor work by the current governor? This is also a key issue for the future work of the National Bank. Which of those three things is the most important thing, and what made the proposer propose a shift like this. As far as we're concerned, we have nothing against the governor's personality, his résumé was here in front of us, but we have serious objections to what he was doing, we have serious objections to the results of his work. As I heard earlier, those who voted for him now have serious objections to what the man was doing and how he led the National Bank of Serbia. The course of the euro has gone from 103 to 118 dinars since the beginning of the year. We heard the governor's argument about why. If that's the case, why didn't it happen to someone else, if that's the case, why didn't it happen before? Which of the problems that exist in Serbia, in Serbia's economy, has become different in Serbia's finances over the past few months without being before that? That's not a good enough excuse. Just like all those reports we get regularly, and so do we as the MPs, who assure us that the banking system is stable, that there's no problem and it turns out that's not exactly the case. In a report we received at the end of last year, no bank in Serbia had any serious problems, so it turns out that a bank has a 300m-euro problem to begin with. This cost Serbian citizens 100m euros for start-up, so it turns out that three other banks have serious problems, so it cost Serbia, the republican budget and Serbian citizens an additional 100m, and the issue of foreign reserves is raised, and a question arises about the placement of these foreign reserves, so a number of questions are raised. We don't think these issues should be discussed in the media. We don't think they talk through statements and newspaper articles. That's why we suggested that we organize public listening. Poor of the possibility, one of the models that can be applied in the Serbian Parliament, to call on the governor, to call on the National Bank Council and cross the arguments. All this talk we're talking about today, and what we don't have an answer for, the only real answer we can get from the council and the governor. What's a fact, in this room there are people who voted for the governor's election, who were then saying everything that they're saying only in an inversion, all the other way around. At the time, they had no objection to his work. Until a few months ago, they had no objections to the euro course, no objections to other things. Now that story has changed a little bit or changed a little bit. What is the likelihood that the National Bank Council, and the National Bank Council will have representatives of all parties proposed by their party, who have been in power so far. As far as I know, the Board of Governors had no objection to his work. On the contrary, they said he was doing well. What are the odds that one of these people will be in the new National Bank Council? I think it's small. How come they now have serious objections, and until a month ago they voted unconditionally for everything the governor suggested. I'm sure that won't help the new governor. Our proposals were made to help the new governor. If we discuss these things in the National Assembly, if we talk about these things in the National Assembly, then I'm sure it'll be a much easier job for the new governor. This remains a complete misunderstanding of intent. This governor will also go quietly. All that is now put in place as a problem will be loaded with the new leadership of the National Bank. Serbia has more than serious problems left by the previous government. The National Bank has more than a serious task to address these problems and there is no need for the National Assembly to impose new burdens and new tasks on it when more than serious challenges await it. We think it's the right way to call the governor, call the National Bank Council, discuss all the issues here, and only after we move on. We think it's the right order of moves and that's the only way to preserve stability and the financial system and the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u666	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, followed by MP Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u667	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, even if everything is ideal, when it comes to the National Bank Act, and it is not, it is important that the intention to bring down the independence of the National Bank of Serbia is destroyed. We're changing the law on the National Bank to replace the governor. It's not a European practice. A clear message has come from Brussels on the issue that monetary policy must be independent. In Article 28. The law on the National Bank of Serbia had certain assumptions that, or we still have, until the amendments and additions of the Law are passed, the governor can be replaced. There's been a lot of talk in public about it, so I won't say it again, even though someone thinks the SPO MP club DHSS is defending the governor, that's where he's wrong. We believe that what he is resented is not his fault from the talks, contact with people who are well-advised to financial opportunities in Serbia. We have received assurances from professors from the Faculty of Economics who are colleagues of Mr. Šoškovic that his responsibility for the growth of the course, i.e. for the fall of the dinar, is not as much as individual representatives of the ruling parties are trying to present it here. He has tried to consolidate the course as much as he spends budget reserves, but the problem with the drop in the value of the dinar is that there is no country's systemic response to the economic woes that have hit us. First of all, they are located, and I will talk more about it when it comes to the agenda of some of these laws. They are primarily in the reformed concept and system reforms, so the decommissioning and revision of the Property Act, the Restitution Act, the Pension System Act, the plan and construction. Therefore, the state must deal with issues that are of the utmost importance for the economic functioning of the country in the future. We must not ask for the shift of a man who has shown his independence on many occasions, who also has flaws and the SPO will mark which, which has not controlled the banks enough, such as Agrobanka, so it is simply impossible that the governor is not referred to everything that has happened in that bank. So, once again, this is not about defending Mr. Shoskovic personally, it is about defending the independence of this institution. And in the previous period, we have had experience passing certain laws, and then, later, under EU pressure and under the pressure of Brussels, we come into a situation that we have to change them. That is why it is foolish to spend time and MPs and money on Serbian citizens for a session and the adoption of laws that will later have to suffer certain changes. You will see that the response of Brussels to everything that is going on will be sharp and you will see that this will be a fact that all those stories about the department, which will be well recognised by the citizens of Serbia, falls into the water and that the absurd has its peak by having stories about the fact that in the main places, the directorial places in public enterprises and institutions should not be found by party people, come into the situation that we will change the leader of an independent institution in order to place party personnel in its place. So once again I'm saying, this is a matter of principle, this is an old European value, this is a matter of European standards. If the government has declared its idea, as its programme platform, Serbia's path to the EU, if it has declared changes, reforms, not reforming the values of those political structures that have led Serbia into a situation to become every branch of the economy, every institution of party prey, reforms are what has been promised in the campaign, regardless of how often the views of members of the ruling coalition have been faced, but everyone has promised one thing and you will find that on the sides of the "Blica", whoever looms, that the leaders of political parties have signed the departmentation. I'm telling you, when it comes to putting party people at the head of an independent institution, what happens to public enterprises? Once again, I ask the ruling coalition to try to cope with the desire to place its people on all fronts. There are other public enterprises, there is another way to satisfy party personnel, but I ask you not to do so with the NBS, because if the intention is achieved, this will certainly slow Serbia's path to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u668	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dr. Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u669	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, we must say that there is something to be said about the circumstances of the adoption of these amendments to the law, or the proposal for this law. After the necessary laws to establish the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is practically the first law we have here. It was adopted by an emergency procedure, which is already said, which means, as defined by the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, there is some great importance, a great urgency for this law to be passed. We received the bill, as the emergency procedure states, 24 hours, practically, just yesterday morning, and it's practically the last law with the choice of creditors ahead of vacations. So the great, great urgency and importance of the law. What no one has explained to us is clearly what this great importance is, why it had to be done so urgently, because this proposal to amend the NBS Act certainly deserved a public debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a very big change is being made here in the way in which the functioning is seen, first of all, the position of the governor and the choice of the governor, and the vice governor of the NBS, and there was no public debate. This public debate had to be within the frameworks, first of all, of the professional public or then we underestimate full economic science and we believe that there are no people in Serbia who can say anything. Not that we're the only countries in Europe who don't have professional and competent people who could really say something about this? Instead, we have a few days of controversy in the media and, to make things more interesting, we find out through the media what is proposed and we find out that the new governor will be a party figure. In this case, I really don't want to, I don't think that it really matters, that we're discussing the person and the work of the governors so far, or that future governor, because it's not the subject of the debate, but it's the subject -- the way this law now sets up the National Bank in relation to the entire social-political system that we have in Serbia. It seems clear to everyone that this law is being passed precisely in order to replace the governor so far, since it is hardly his personality or his expertise. I have to say, by the way, that I'm protesting that he's here as a professor of economics, called a theorist. I have to say on behalf of the educators -- we're not theorists. I'm not talking about the governor's interest, he's a professor of economics, one of over 100,000 people who work in Serbia's education, so let's leave these stories to the theorists, because educational workers are not theorists, they're doing educational work. Let's put this aside, since the objections were not personal, no one here has issued any serious arguments, although it has been announced and it has been reported, obviously there are some arguments, against the work of the current governor and the work of the National Bank. That would be legitimate and good, if people made arguments, because there are obviously serious objections. One of the changes proposed here in the new law, this administration, the new body, the financial institutions' supervisory board seems to be really necessary and there were problems and that it is certainly one of the things that could be discussed, whether the National Bank had control over some financial institutions and why it did not do that properly. It seems to us that from this shift of governors, this is actually the law on the replacement of the current governor, two things are in fact hidden. It is, first of all, that in this case, the independence of the bank is lost, not once again, because of the way it becomes governor, because of the way it can be replaced, and here it has already been pointed out that in 2000 none of them had their full mandate, it seems to me in the past law that it was tried to ensure that independence is ensured so that its mandate lasts longer than the government's mandate. Now, I see, it's been cut short for five years in the new bill of law and that his choice is for advice. Now, according to the new bill, not only is he elected by the National Assembly, but the National Assembly elects and jokes by the governor. In other words, the National Assembly, which makes up the political majority that the citizens unequivocally expressed in the elections, will now practically be a political figure again, and that will happen with the election of a new governor. It will be very interesting if you agree to the amendment, which requires that the one you choose for at least a year has not been active in any political party. It is just us that you will accept that amendment in which it will write that it would be desirable that at least a year before the election he stopped being a functionary and active official of some political party. What is another deeply worrying way for us to pass laws in order to make personal shifts come true. So the whole law tends instead of coming out and clearly saying arguments against someone's work. I'm talking about professional work, it's not a person's personality at all at all, because obviously, I repeat again, there are objections, we've heard here and some experts, too, have objections, although there were defences here. There should be an expert debate, primarily among economists, financial experts who, of course, exist in Serbia. What other concerns us, which is here, and these are some economists on this fast-reading bill, very fast, 24 hours, sorry, this law we have, urgently, everything is terribly urgent to do before the summer, of course we have a provision that when the law is adopted automatically, both to the governor and to the vice governor, it is a very interesting provision, not some transitional period of 30 days, 60 days, etc., but it is immediately important to take down that governor and vice governor, it is this decision that there is that the National Bank of Serbia can buy charters of value from the secondary market. I have to say that one of our well-known economic analysts, a journalist who, in my opinion and not only my own, writes very well, asked the question – whether we are going back to the period "Agrommerca" and Fikret Abdic of Velika Kladupa, which is the possibility that economic operators, who can no longer be in charge of banks under normal circumstances, will broadcast bonds that will indirectly buy the National Bank of Serbia and thus open up the possibility of a primary show, that we will return to what we had in the early 1990s. All of this would not have been and these issues would not have been asked, if the prime minister's exposure had been clarified, because this is clearly government policy, obviously all members of the ruling coalition would vote for this, if his note had been clarified that the development of the economy was needed and without reason how this development was achieved. In other words, the real economic goals of the government for which we are all interested, without any malignancy, in which way we encourage economy and what the role of the National Bank is in it. There can be thunder against the course here, there are economists who think this course is overrated. Will the new governor, for example? to fix the course, which would greatly help many tycoons, though, and many companies that have a foreign exchange clause in their debts, and then be calm in returning? All these questions are open because we don't have any answers here. We just have a proposal to change the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. What we lack is real exposures to the government's economic measures and then the function of the National Bank of Serbia in all of this. We have one piece of the urgent process, and we don't have the urgent part to answer what will actually be economic priorities and the government's economic policy. This cannot be independent of each other, because the largest number of people who criticises the current policy of economic, manner of behaviour of the National Bank of Serbia has constantly connected to economic growth, we heard today, the fall of standards, economic stalemate etc. That's all, at least the most basic reasons. I won't even mention the others. It is absolutely certain that this will bring Europe's attention. You have already seen indications that this raises the question – what will actually be the economic and financial policy of the new government? What is the key argument that I want to point out here behind the governor's shift, that is, the law that needs to literally replace the governor and the vice governors, the pressures to change Serbia's credit-monetary policy are hidden. We would like to know – what kind of credit-monetary policy this credit-monetary policy will be in the future, when one of the main carriers or the main carrier was the National Bank of Serbia, is not satisfactory. So we are passing the law to replace one man and bring down the independence of the National Bank of Serbia by the way we replace him, but at the same time no one has answered us – what kind of policy it will be. What scares us here is that there may be no such concepts and that this is part of the wandering of this ruling coalition that doesn't cheer me up, right now to say that I am a citizen of this country and I live in this country, what kind of credit-money policy is going to be. If we had discussed this law, then we would get answers about what the function of the National Bank of Serbia is and what should be in the next period, when we talk about credit-money policy. We didn't get any of that. We've only got one law of urgency that needs to be replaced by the governor immediately. We all know that after that another governor will be elected immediately, and none of the essential answers have been received – what was wrong with the previous policies of the National Bank of Serbia, what should be this new monetary and fiscal policy of the National Bank of Serbia? None of those answers. This is an example of something that is badly done and if this is the first law that this government, by emergency procedure, offers us here, then we have a lot of reasons to wonder – whether the government has any concept of how it will lead the country's economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u670	Thank you. Proposer's representative, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me get this straight. The government here is not a lawmaker, this is a law of law. I hadn't noticed that one of my colleagues said he didn't consider theorists as experts, I certainly didn't say that. What's more, I don't consider professors at universities just educators, but scientists, and as far as the reason for this law is concerned, the biggest accent has been thrown into bank control. It's the National Bank that controls our financial institutions. These financial institutions include banks, insurance companies, company leases, and voluntary pension funds. They often finance with non-domestic capital. There are shareholders who are not shareholders from Serbia, such as one drastic example and corruption, which is a much bigger problem for Serbia in front of the EU, than for this law that is in line with EU legislation, because if you look at the last page of the bill, you will read it, and the deterring of foreign investors who would like to invest in our financial organisations. I'm going to read just one piece about this famous affair that's about Agrobank. Agrobank showed profits for the first half of 2011 worth 438m dinars. Only three months later, the bank announced a loss of two 2.270,000,000 dinars, while in the last quarter, the amount of losses became ten. In the bank, they haired the financial report by treating uncharging loans as safe loans. That's why the bank didn't have to isolate the so-called. reserves additional capital to cover possible losses and thus, by automation, the bank shows a much better result. That's how the bank artificially demonstrated its profits, and it basically accumulated losses. In investment circles, it was known that the bank was giving risky discounts, such as One hotel in the den that is not worth a million euros, estimated to be worth 15m euros and gave the businessman much more credit than he can serve. A sixm-euro loan was granted to a village company on the Drina coast, and as security, the bank accepted a 1000-square-square business space that is not worth even 100,000 euros. So, the bank is only in this business at a loss of 5,900,000 euros. Also, the bank borrowed tens of millions of euros in "Habit Farm", a company now in bankruptcy. You have that four raspberries have raised 50m euros in loans they cannot repay, etc. According to financial reports, an audit was carried out by an authorised auditory house, on the way of business and the financial situation of Agrobank, which did not correspond to the actual state. The National Bank of Serbia accepts a report that everyone knows is not responding to the real financial situation in Agrobanks and even approves of dividend payments, so that's the problem. Amendments and additions to this law are done precisely to prevent this. To have the governor's responsibilities tells the fact – what happened to the governor who was in charge of the bank's business control. He is directly responsible to the governor. Did he bear any legal consequences for his failure? To do his job right, with a salary most citizens can only dream of, then you can't convince me that even the governor didn't know about it. That's one of the reasons this law changes. Another reason is not to control the banks, but to control the payments made by the banks, but since we are also asking about what financial stability looks like and what about the euro leap, let's analyze it a little bit. At the meeting, it seems to me, in September or October 2010, we provided exactly how many NBS broadcasts to stop the euro and how many of these same foreign exchanges came out and how much liquidity the banking sector has fallen. That's when that data was available to us. Does he ask any questions as to why these data are not available to the public today? There is no longer a table of liquidity of the banking sector on the NBS site. Through that table, they would know exactly what purpose banks buy foreign exchanges for, whether they keep them on the domestic market or from outside. Then there are other consequences, and we can discuss it, it's not disputed. The excuse of the NBS is that the latest amendments to the NBS Act are entrusted to the Ministry of Finance. Then the finance ministry should go from the bank to the bank to control their foreign exchange business, and literally one single dinar cannot come out of Serbia to not know about it, because it provides technical support. There's a lot that the current governor and the way the NBS function can be put on the line. How important NBS is, not for the government, but for the citizens of Serbia, only one piece of information speaks. Somewhere before the 2011 elections, the government of the Republic of Serbia broadcast state records of foreign market values in the euro area. It's a fact about 770m euros. So now if only one dinar jumps the euro, this country only owes 770 million dinars per loan. You were witnesses, you know, you were MPs and in the last session, how much guarantee we gave to various public enterprises, Elektroprivred, the Railways of Serbia and other business entities where the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is for loans with the currency clause. The question arises – who and where will those loans be returned, especially what is constantly said about some economic indicators that are not realistic? Who will repay 400m euros in losses to Agrobanka, where the majority government of the Republic of Serbia, which didn't care what happened to Agrobank, and the governor gave the green light to continue with this practice? Who's gonna get it back? What about the foreign investors in that bank? He has capital from Slovenia and Austria, and they are damaged, as well as domestic shareholders. Then we come to the question – then who in Serbia will invest more, any cent, dollar, euro, anything, if the NBS makes such a failure? Then we're talking about attracting foreign investment. It can't be like that. These loans they've given, they're from corruption. Leave the story alone that the changes that are happening in Serbia are political. The one who did his job well and quality won't be changed. Here, and today you have a proposal to protect the citizens who supported both the SNS and the ruling majority. We didn't choose him, but we believe that a man in his past term has done his job properly and will be re-elected. I believe so, only if something new happens. Those who did their job right won't be replaced.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u672	Replica, Mr. Lightfoot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u673	You're just paradoxically supporting what I said. Let me understand what you're saying, i.e. the need to discuss the work of the NBS in the previous period. That's exactly what I've advocated, in which, of course, the professional public should be involved. Of course, then a reasoned proposal could be referred to the Board of Governors, with a question – what is the responsibility of the governor himself and, in particular, the vice governor? I fully share your opinion that Agrobank's affair is a terrible financial affair which is likely to have a criminal and judicial epilogue, but in the media I'm reading, as you know, I'm not an expert on finance, that now it's claimed that the governor has submitted to the criminal police exactly that application or, to be precise, from the NBS. That's what I read in the media this morning, that she was handed over and that there was a criminal report, a request to the financial police to investigate the case. What's true is that it will determine the investigation that's being conducted. The point is, before a Lex specialis is brought in, and this is a Lex specialis, to change the way the governor works and chooses the governor, and how it is replaced, that it may be necessary to conduct this debate with the Board of Governors, maybe he would accept some, if they were convincing and clear arguments that the governor is not doing his job. We only have here now, when the law is on the agenda and when you explain it, for the first time arguments about what's going on and what's the role of the NBS was in the previous period and what you're actually saying, what's her failure. In my opinion, that's the reverse order. If someone had those arguments, I think they should have made it public and made it clear. Here today should be the people who, although this is a principle debate, are in charge of finance in the government, ministers, if there is a deputy minister, that they are taking part in this debate and to strengthen it. So I have to stay with the bitter feeling once again, that there's an institution breaking overnight here, because someone was actually unhappy with the credit policy in the previous time, not because of these failures.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u674	Thank you. You have received the resignations of MPs Veroljub Stevanović and Miroslav Cučković as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that a case under Article 88(2) has taken place by resigning. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with this Article, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time to be elected, for MPs Veroljub Stevanović and Miroslav Cuckovic, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word has Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u675	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the NBS Act, which has already been in the course of the debate, and in the public as well, raises numerous questions and controversy, such as whether this law compromises the independent role of the NBS, is it just another shift of governors in the series and does the National Assembly take control of the NBS? In trying to look back at some of these questions, I want to underline a few facts. Serbia is facing perhaps the worst economic crisis in its recent history today, given that the country is over-indebted at this time and that this debt exceeds 50% of GDP, i.e. a long time ago, that the deficit in the budget is above 7%, that the value of the dinar has fallen by more than 12% from the beginning of the year and that inflation is already reaching the annual planned height, with it likely to be higher than the purchasing power of citizens, but due to the limited wages the amount of inflation is under control. Unfortunately, the most serious and dangerous data, which concerns all of us, is the high unemployment rate, which exceeds 25%. So all this says is that we have an economy that is in a desperate state, ahead of collapse, and that the newly formed government is expecting great temptations. These are real challenges for the government, and in this context, I want to say that we are in this financial and economic sense, on the edge of the break-in and to get rid of this place, it is necessary that all policies in this country, all instruments and all institutions are directed one way, and that is to move from this dangerous place. I also want to say that the key components of each country's economic policy are monetary and fiscal policy. One is in the hands of the government, the other is in the hands of the National Bank of Serbia. Economists also know this theory and practice confirms that usually the positive effects of fiscal policy are negatively reflected in monetary and vice versa. So, there is a very close link between these two policies that sometimes oppose and rule out, and that is why their coordination is necessary. Given the circumstances that both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the members of the government have large reserves when it comes to the current monetary policy, i.e. simply put, they disagree with it. It is very difficult to expect this type of coordination that is necessary to get the country out of such serious problems. Part of the economy in recent months, and even years of giving serious objections to the country's monetary policy, economics are bothered by the unstable course of domestic currency, unable to plan and negotiate their jobs. Often on course differences, they don't lose profits, they go into losses. In the end, Serbian citizens may feel the most of the problems caused by such a unstable exchange rate, a concrete decline in the real value of domestic currency, because all those who have loans indexed in euro, which are mostly on our market, face a serious problem of how to return and how to pay for those wars from the month to month. What is coming to us, unfortunately, is certainly the inability of an increasing number of citizens to settle obligations on the basis of these loans, because it is known that their salaries are either frozen or even falling. Because of all of this, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has the authority and control over the Government and the National Bank of Serbia, must create assumptions that these two key policies, monetary and fiscal, are being coordinated in the right way, and in this sense I see the purpose and purpose of adopting this law, i.e. the law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which, among other things, increases the supervisory function and the National Assembly, introduces a new function of the National Bank itself, which is the function of controlling financial institutions, through administration. That control, in the opinion of many so far, has lagged behind. We have heard examples of the Agrobanks and the Vojvodine Development Bank, and in that sense, the Management will assume these control functions. The truth about will and should be objective and say that both the exchange rate and the interest rates in the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia and not only the National Bank of Serbia is responsible for an unstable course, there are many factors affecting this, but in any case, it is the National Bank of Serbia that has the greatest powers and competences in this regard. By adopting such a law, it is certainly possible for the National Assembly to take great responsibility for the final conflicts of monetary policy and its effects in the future, given that it will be in a position to appoint a governor and a joke of governors who will also restrict certain powers and thus the majority of the assembly, in particular to be precise, will have responsibility, in fact, for the effects and results of this law. For these reasons that I have stated today, I will support the adoption of such a law and, of course, like all of you, I would like to choose the governor in the same way that we will choose the Protector of the Citizens, because it will guarantee both the instability and stability of such an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u676	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u677	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is one of the very important laws for the simple reason that it is intruding into that area of the vital interests of citizens and citizens of Serbia, and therefore it is not necessary to respect the ruling majority of why it is brought about by an urgent procedure or even to talk about the loss of independence and independence of the Central Bank in our country. In 2010, the month of June improved this independence and independence, consistent with the highest legal act of our country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These amendments and additions to the law will only advance another segment which, we have seen in practice, is very important and that is the responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia towards those who are the country's sovereignty bearers, which are citizens and citizens of Serbia. We as their representatives here, like those they have delegated, of course have the right to improve this supervisory and control function and to lead to the operation of the National Bank of Serbia in a much more responsible way. And here are the stories that we're discussing today some sort of resolution and the maltene and the appointment of a new governor. I think it's a commitment and a business, first of all, to all of us to talk about what's on the agenda. On the agenda is the Law on Amendments and Supplements, and what is crucial for this Amendment and Supplement proposal, these are the key newspapers that write in the reasons for the adoption of the law, therefore, the restoration of the supervisory function to the National Assembly. I do not see what is controversial if we are representatives of the country's sovereignty, I also do not see what is disputed in the selection of all officials of the National Bank of Serbia by the National Assembly, the education of the supervision of financial institutions within the National Bank of Serbia, the extension of the mandate of the Council, not only there is no suspension of certain rights or reduction of jurisdiction but we also have a proposal to extend jurisdiction, the restriction of the powers of the executive board governors taught by some negative experiences not to discuss speculative transactions and exchange rates and one-off bank profits ranging between 300 and 400,000 euros per day. Not to mention some phenomena such as Agrobanka, therefore, just taught by this practice, we have defined one of these legal proposals to the citizens of Serbia and to the public of Serbia. The amendment of the mandate of the Council members, the increase of the responsibility of the officials, I think it is crucial, the limitation of the fee at the end of the post, the provision of a ban on the state's lending, the regulation of internal audit, the regulation of violations and safeguards for non-compliance with the prohibitions. In any case, all that is stated simply speaks of the applicant's intensity, that is a group of 105 MPs, is that we are responsible for the citizens and citizens of Serbia. If anyone from the opposition sees anything controversial in that, it is, of course, their legitimate right and they will make their arguments, but I'm not sure the citizens see anything controversial in it. I especially don't see that it's disputed that we want to establish order and prevent you from being speculant, so-called. Stock exchanges, continue to do so in some way and shut down or disable our business entities, because they are simply obliged to buy and sell foreign exchanges. I just don't understand why the NBS is always the one who intervenes on the foreign exchange market in the afternoon and doesn't do it in the morning? Who is the one who has practically been conducting the euro since the morning hours, and what are the banks that in these income differences and what are the banks that sell these euros at a more expensive price, and after the intervention of the National Bank buy them at a cheaper price? It's simple, what the people would say, like beans. It's one of the arguments, and that's why it's the responsibility that we all simply appeal and call for. The control and control function is parliament. I've already said that and I don't think it can be disputed in any way, I think it can only improve the functioning of the system, the functioning of the National Bank. Here, the opposition will honor a projected or projected candidate for this very responsible function and discuss department. We of the SPS, as well as our coalition partners from the JS and the PUPS, of course, advocate the decommissioning, but we cannot as a fundamental disqualification to whoever is expert in managing, to be a good manager, simply, to find membership in some political option. Then it's an incursion in the sphere of human rights. I don't think anyone has the right to, if anyone meets the requirements, be prevented from performing some responsible function, but we are speaking in hypothesis, because someone here wants to impose a story here that we are discussing today the resolution of the current governor of the NBS. Of course, here we are not guided by Makiavelism, to justify the means, here we are guided by a constitutional framework that enables us to propose amendments and amendments to the law in one way that is consistent with the Constitution, to amend the law, to bring about the optimism of what drives citizens or to treat the question of the lives of ordinary people, the lives of the Serbian economy. I don't know why any such a proposal to amend and supplement the law would politicize, make it some pamphlet, talk about it being a partization now, not a departmentalization. We have an NGO sector that's very agile these days. Of course, it's legitimate to talk about it and we have unnamed sources from Brussels that are also very upset about the adoption of this law. I think that, with respect for both the European Commission and the insistence on the European path, on the path of European integration, we must also take care of those who are holders of sovereignty, and that is all of us and all of Serbia's citizens. In that sense, I do not see that the public, and especially the bearers of sovereignty, will be so upset when this law is adopted in the day of the vote. I don't really want to owe you. I'm a politician, I'm not a financial expert, but I know what curricula is, I know which one collects large and enormous sums of money. I know it's the responsibility of that kind of thing on the NBS right now. That's why I'm as an ordinary citizen interested in getting it in order. If anyone can make a contrasting argument, that this is not happening in Serbia, I will gladly listen to it. In the day to vote, the SPS parliamentary group and our coalition partners from the JS and the PUPS will vote in favour of this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u678	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 87 and 90. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that today's break will be between 15 and 16 hours. I would also like to inform you that today we will continue our work and after 18 hours, until the debate on the second item of the agenda is completed. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u679	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of Parliament, 220 years ago, a great philosopher Imanuel Kant, wrote in the evening of the democratic revolutions of England and France: "When politics is based on law, it is honorable and successful, and when the law adapts to politics, it is harmful and disgusting." 220 years ago, a man laid the foundations of the relationship between law and politics. We're discussing a political issue here today. Here, a few changes or additions are intended to facilitate the shift of governors and in a legal sense, we can bend as much as we want, it's not any legal big news, but the problem has been one that has now appeared before us since the first day, when it was a debate on the Law on the Ministry and on the Law on Government, and then a series of other procedures have shown one tendency that I believed was the result of the current nervousness or awe of the new government that wants to show, however, I'm afraid it's something else, that it's about the steps back, of restoring something that I was hoping was overcome. The main problem of totalitarianism from all socialist countries was the usurpation of the executive authority over all other forms and segments of government and society. I remember a detail when the president of the Sociological Society of Serbia was elected. Something less significant could not be imagined. I've been invited to see who will succeed. I wasn't a member of the SK, but a lady in the Committee told me there was no empty space. I didn't understand, I said, space. No, we have to be everywhere and we have to control everything. It's one of the bad tendencies of executive power that, I don't want to sin on my soul, it's not just here, it's more or less everywhere in the world. I mentioned last time an English law on the protection of citizens from the government, but that many have written significant articles about it. What's the problem? We know there's a division of power. It was both in Stalinism and in titoism. Of course, it was Parliament, there were judges, there was a judiciary, but it was known who decided. There was only one center to decide. Society defends itself by creating auxiliary independent centers. One of these is freedom of the press or the media. There were immediate blows that they were the newsletters of a party, I don't think so. The other is monetary policy. This is about money, gentlemen. There wouldn't be so much rush or breach of the Rules of Procedure and everything else that some don't rush to get their hands on money, believing that by melting state reserves, they'd be able to ease their position. We know what the task is and the goal and the difficulty of the import lobby. He took over big loans, he had big ambitions, and now there are problems that need to be solved. There were strange statements here -- we don't need theorists to write laws, what are we going to do, let it down into the people. There have been such attempts in Serbia. During Djak's rebellion, in the Assembly called by Prince Milos, one MP stood up and said, "If you want peace to be, kill all students and the story is over." Why do we need learned people? There's no talking about it, there's those who know, who can talk about it, etc. This issue is important for Serbia, because it was the country that had the biggest problems in this particular sphere. She was a world record of hyperinflation. She was a country where the machinations, through the primary show, robbed society in tens of billions, with pyramidal banks, and not to tell what was here. There was one governor, a famous man of the International Monetary Fund, of our origin, you know him very well, Mr. Avramovic, who made a very simple proposal and resolved the issue of hyperinflation, but many who wanted to continue very easily with the financial resources, replaced him here in this room. The difference was that he was invited and attended, and he answered everyone all the time, convincing them that by ignoring the International Monetary Fund, this volunteerism in the primary mission, we are leading to disaster again. We've replaced him. It was those shifts. How did hyperinflation happen? Very simple. The governor got orders from those who had power. They threw the money trucks on the street, they switched them into foreign exchanges overnight, and in a month they returned instead of worth a million marks, they returned a thousand or I don't know ten thousand marks, put the rest in their pocket. Today we are convinced - we know, we are great businessmen, we created this country. Wait, that's what we're gonna talk about, but I know those skills. No private ignorance must harm anyone, but if it gets the power to make decisions, it becomes extremely dangerous. What does it mean that the governor is setting a course? We got it. A series of businesses functioned by conducting a course. I don't think the course of Russian laundry has changed in 30 years. You can tell from that joke -- there's a bottle of beer and a pair of hot dogs for two dinars, so who's asked where, there's nowhere, but it's cheap. And that was great. Now we bring it down to, like, 10 euros for one dollar or the other, but who are you going to sell it to? If we're gambling foreign exchange reserves, because it's their function to secure our credibility, so someone can give us money on the loan, then it means we're headed for some dangerous road. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, of course, and the European Union, have also made it very clear to us - you must maintain the market perspective of your currency. That's what you have to do. It's never quite true, but if you go to market economy and you show up with your currency through supply and market demand, then you can't decide as a government or any body now, what a course it will be, so that those who took the loans, not thinking enough whether our economy will have the power to maintain a strong dinar. Well, it's not a strong dollar from the governor's shoulders that depends on the power of the economy he can carry out. That's what the dinar's all about. So instead of the monetary policy that we have, hopefully, been adopted and the desire to raise the economy that it can create, how-so, a healthy dinar, not to say that it's already convertable, we're now, it seems to me, one other way, through the volunteerism that is vertically visible. I heard it here -- it doesn't matter that the department, etc., it doesn't matter, whoever is going to be governor. That's what we saw, gentlemen. We watched that the director could be anyone at the session, and in short, it doesn't even have to be the Central Committee of Law. Shall we go that way again? Will someone convince us that it was a great economic future? And today as a country, besides other things, because there were sanctions and bombings, but we're limping for a ruined, crafted economy. And all this shows and what's confusing is that we have some very distasteful policy that's hard to cope with. On the one hand, the EU is, we remain committed to this goal and we want to come to negotiations as soon as possible. We talk, negotiate, and we're happy when someone sees us, and on the other hand, we do things that are the opposite. No one's going to say nice things to you. You can fool them once with a declaration, but you can't keep. There will be a question when a real exam must be passed. This is where we take the exam in society reform, not in grandma reform. As much as we respect independence and judges, and prosecutors, and banks, and newspapers and NGOs, these are all those auxiliary institutional means that allow democracy to function. Otherwise, that frak can be worn. We have the government, we have the parliament, we have the court, all the institutions are here. They've always been there, but the question is whether they have any content or not. What's additionally ugly is that there's talk here about the governor in absentia. They even have evidence. Leave those times to attack people without proof. In this country, it seems very easy. I'm listening to the president of the state who says - we don't need one Sanader, but we'll see if we activate him or if we don't activate him or arrest him. There are courts, there's a prosecution, there's a police who arrests, there are processes in which a man can later complain, to an executive, but let's not put that order in some kind of psychosis, because I don't know who needs it. In my opinion, this authority must have gone the wrong way, by means of a full volunteering and ignoring of the law, which believes that it can do with some brutal violence, all to turn into some law. Well, it's nothing new. And the worst regimes, based on some of their laws, have worked. We can cover that most in parliament decide here. In this House, in this room, there was 100% of a party class. They had a majority that couldn't be imagined bigger. Did this give them the right to pass laws that do not comply with international norms, which do not comply with the Constitution, not to speak democratically? We're a country that's been through bad experiences. We should make an effort and greet each moment if we can move away from that obsession with power and desire to be able to do anything. The worst thing one government can think of is knowing everything, being able to do anything and being able to do anything. That's what every government had their heads in it. That's why there's going to be a speech here. We've made amendments. We're trying to act constructively, to fix what can be fixed. We don't accept any convictions you're giving here behind your back, one qualified professor and competent. If you have evidence, there are commissions to show it. Don't push behind your back and try to embarrass a man in public, who has an excellent professional and academic reputation. That's ugly. That's the kind of thing we've met before today. If we want one serious debate, you're all talking about it, both consensus and everything. Consensus means that we agree on everything. How do you propose a governor, only the ruling majority and say we have sovereignty said one young colleague. I know and the kings had sovereignty, but the problem is the content of sovereignty and control of sovereignty. In the absolute monarchy, the king was sovereign. Therefore, the problem of sovereignty is a little more complex and that doesn't mean that if we represent the people, that we here have the right to do whatever we want. We have no rights. There's something older than us, it's laws, international laws, the Constitution, it's principles of justice and a lot of things. Every single majority, if they think they can do anything they want, they'll turn their heads on her, and the other part, while we're sitting here, we won't give it to you. We will fight every attempt to violate human rights, to reduce democracy, to break the rules, to try to seek personal solutions by changing the laws. You have one vertical here. Mr Dinkic, the finance minister, is gone, this is none of his business to the People's Bank, neither are they, but it is one parliamentary group that will now propose it. From the finance minister through the chairman of the Finance Committee, who becomes competent to propose all this, we have one line of one party, one man. I don't know if he has the key to the vault. What else is there to give? If you think anyone should trust anyone, one of the MPs here is a word - where are those government reserves? First thing I said - don't tell him. Therefore, the matter is very clear or we will act in accordance with the rules, in accordance with democratic principles, in line with what we have promised the EU or we will try to trick and force some of our private issues. The Democratic Party will defend democratic principles and Serbia's path to reform towards a democratic free society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u680	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of truth, the current governor was first proposed by the president of the DS, then by the President of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, the current president of the Republic of Serbia is no longer a member of the SNS, not a party president. I love when independent authorities are built in the Republic of Serbia. As an example of what should not be done is judicial reform, re-election and the choice of judges, re-election and the choice of prosecutors. It's an example of how you shouldn't work. When it comes to freedom of the media, we have had the opportunity to see in this latest campaign how the RRA reacted to a negative campaign led against the current president of the Republic of Serbia and how it has defended any bad announcement of the then, or president of Serbia, who has already resigned. These are examples of how we shouldn't work. When it comes to foreign reserve, on the contrary, we fight that foreign reserves don't go crazy. There are more mechanisms to protect domestic currency. It starts from the reference interest rate to the withdrawal and the increase of the mandatory reserve from the banks to the National Bank, to the withdrawal of the cash out of circulation if there is a greater outflow than the inflow of foreign investments. Our National Bank, apart from foreign exchange interventions, has done none of that. A little modest by 0.25% increased the reference interest rate, and continued to decrease even when the euro began to jump. During the previous government until this ruling majority was formed, up until a few days ago, the dinar lost value compared to the euro 50%, from 77-78 to 118 dinars. Don't say anything else. Freeze course, we're against it. It's the last line of defence for dinars, but one of the world's most economically stable countries, Switzerland, currently has a frozen course. It's not because the Swiss franc is weak, it's because it's too strong, but the course is frozen. When you talk about the import lobby, I don't know what kind of sublegal acts were passed during the previous government that only one circle of people met the conditions for importing the most sensitive goods, such as, for example, which are no longer on the domestic market since they're closed and azotars in Prahovo and in Šapec, imports of artificial fertilizer. The contingents were such that you had to have warehouses that only one or two companies had in Serbia. It was a monopoly and those importers didn't mind at the time. It is pure demagogy that the euro's jump affects exports and that it is fueling our products. Because the exporting producer also takes loans indexed in euro and the same loans should be returned to euro. The difference in course will be calculated in its export product. Serbia needs economic stability to allow businesses, businesses, to make development plans, a strategy, to conclude long-term contracts. Like this, even if some export business succeeds, it's from case to case. Whether the balance of payments is correct, believe it or not, it is, but it's not our fault, and neither did you who were in power, we were just lucky. The difference between imports and exports is covered by our citizens who have earned their pension abroad and those who occasionally come here. You have inflows between three and two hundred, three hundred million to four billion euros a year based on the foreign pensions of our citizens, who have acquired them abroad, and about two to two and a half billion in exchange jobs. If you happen to have such a balance of payments and the euro falls, then there's another reason why? We'll discuss it when the time comes, and we think the National Bank is one of the responsible why we have a course like this today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u682	Thank you. Dr Dragoljub Micunović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u683	I have no intention of opening a debate with you. I think I made it very clear what I said. Of course, we have exports, and it's in human material, and if there weren't any of our citizens who went into the world to work and send them here, our position would be even worse, if it were to rely solely on the capacity of our economy. The main problem is that, when it was announced that these changes would take place, we heard the representatives of the largest holding company here, who had asked to freeze the return of the loan for two years. What kind of blow is that, and in what way is that possible? What's that hit on the National Bank? What's this about? The time is before you, you will show very quickly how you think to bring these goals into line, on the one hand, to keep up with Europe, agree with the IMF, the World Bank, the EU and such moves as this law. I wish you every good, and very soon we will meet and see, and the citizens will feel it on their skin.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u684	Thank you. Mr. Gjorge Stojsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u685	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina would be involved in the discussion. Without prejudice to the current moment in which our country's economy is at stake and without doubting the sincere intentions and impatience of the promoter that, in the shortest time, we want to look at this legislative proposal, which, according to us, is extremely important for the future and the present of our country. As we all know, monetary stability is the priority of every government everywhere in the world. The countries with regulated political systems have very well-organised central banks. The role of the central bank, which we call the National Bank, is to preserve the value of the domestic currency, but also to preserve the stability of the financial sector. In this respect, there is no particular need to emphasise the importance, especially today in the context of the global economic crisis when and in countries with a much longer capitalist tradition the functions and roles of the National Bank are exceptional. That is why, for reasons that are recognized by the analyses of some times when the economic breakdown was much greater than today, in particular in America, it is a period of recession and major depression, it is understood that the role of the central bank, i.e. monetary policies have just led the real sector to suffer serious consequences. I wouldn't, apriori, be negative in that context, but I don't think we should remind our public about the experiences of the 1990s when we had the biggest inflation since the Phoenicians invented the money. We know that people then lost their life savings, lost their wages, lost their pensions, the company lost its substance. It is hard to imagine that this was done on purpose by people who then created monetary policy, but I think that simply their understanding of the concept of monetary mass, interest rates, foreign reserves and the functions of the National Bank was not adequate, led to the consequences we know more or less. Since 5 October 2000 until today, many criticisms can be expressed at the expense of many governments and political parties, but I think we can agree that we have had a more or less stable monetary policy compared to the 1990s. This led to finally getting a converting domestic currency. The independence of the National Bank has largely allowed the dinar to become a paying agent again, which does not lose value from hour to hour, or by day, as we have witnessed. There are reasons that are obvious and accepted by the creators of a political system in the modern world that requires central banks to be independent of day-to-day political influences. After all, the slogan of one of the parties that make up today's ruling majority was "experience in front of politics" in the election of the pre-last one, I think, and the case of the National Bank I think is extremely applicable. I'm apostrophealing all of this because we don't see the reason why this law is being passed by an emergency procedure. We heard some arguments from the promoter and the Finance Committee. Some of us can even agree, but from the text of the proposal we can only guess what the real intensity of this bill is. I will sublime that into three points – it is foreign reserve management, the possibility of borrowing the budget from the National Bank, although I have received assurances that this will be resolved by the amendment, we have also submitted an amendment on the subject, but I think the ruling majority will remove it, and of course I am the way in which the executives are elected in the National Bank. Of course it's monetary policy, therefore the National Bank is the pillar and foundation of every economy. In his exposé, the prime minister spoke very extensively about the foundations and pillars, and in this sense the real analogy, that the National Bank is the basis of any serious economic policy. There's really no need to pay the price again, and we're going back to a time when we've had that experience. Generations are already paying for the mistakes that have entered the anthology of world economic history. We in Vojvodina know best the price of these mistakes from the time when the weaknesses of the monetary system and, let's say, the failure to find the creators of the vision of different renaissances at the time led to the fact that we, for example, Slovenia, came to the fact that today we are an unsatisfactory source of cheap labour and even cheaper agricultural products. The monetary policy of the 1990s has greatly affected what we have today. Whether I come from a party that is in opposition or which makes up the ruling majority, I think that with much greater responsibility we should approach topics like the National Bank and at least try to reach a consensus on such important issues. As I have already said, world experience is such that it goes to the maximum professionalization of certain institutions and central banks. The crisis that has hit the financial sector is not only local, but global economic crisis. We're part of that world, despite the aspirations of many, so I think we could look up to some of the practices that already exist in the world, there's really no need to try to invent hot water. I know that among the promoters there are extremely professional people who understand the role of the National Bank and monetary policy well. They know that what we hear today about the People's Bank and the problems it allegedly created are more of a demagogy than an economy. It's our obligation here to never use demagogue, so we should explain to the public and tell them what they need to know, not what they want to hear. In this sense, the public must know that the long-term course of the dinar, although extremely speculative, is convenient for media presentations, because suddenly everyone has become economists, the long-term course of the dinar is not a product of the will of someone who runs the National Bank. It reflects the fact that today we are at the level of industrial production from 1989, that we are importing more than we export and that we have a high level of public consumption. In other words, we don't produce anything that anyone wants to buy at any price, so the demand for dinars is always less than the offer. I would agree here to some extent with my colleague that there is a balance of balance of payments through the transfers, but these don't last much longer unless we intend to export the workforce forever, which I don't think demographics will allow, because every year more people in Serbia die than they are born. There is no National Bank in the world that can defend the country's course, when all macroeconomic indicators are negative. I think the proposing representatives know that the key to solving our economic problems is not in the National Bank. Accordingly, I would once again appeal to reason that if there is a tendency of certain stakeholders or individuals to re-attach for the primary foreign reserve emission, in order to address some of the problems in the short term, that people who will lead the NBS will resist such demands, because this can be devastating. I hope this bill will not be passed, because I think this is a hasty solution. It will have far-reaching consequences for our economic system. We have made some suggestions in the amendments, to the extent that this would change. Here we get assurances that these are just some technical, more or less cosmetic changes. I don't agree with that. Whom the snake bites and the lizard is afraid of, and we've been bitten by snakes for ten years, so I think the NBS theme is something that deserves, at least, a little wider public debate and a certain opinion by the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u686	The word of the messenger of the people is Peter Petrovic. Let the people's letter of Olena Papuga be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u687	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the beginning to repeat what you have heard earlier, that the JS parliamentary group, together with its coalition partners, will support the draft law amending and supplementing the NBS Act. Before I could state the reasons why we'd support this bill, I'd have to look back on a few sentences to statements by a lot of midwives, on either side of the border, and especially these domestic ones, who are already crying, why the law will be changed and why their favorite, the current governor of the NBS, will be changed. I don't see why, let them answer themselves why they care so much about it, and also those who care about Serbia and its right to change the existing law, and possibly tomorrow find another humane solution for the governor of the NBS, those who are located, whether in Brussels, London, Berlin, etc., to tell them that this is the most legislative body of the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution, that the representatives here chose all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that they are likely to have the right, because they were sent by Serbian citizens to pass such laws in accordance with the existing and valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which they estimate that they would be for the benefit of Serbian citizens. So much for those influences on the inside and on the side. When we talk about why the existing NBS Act should be changed, it is best that those who oppose it go a little bit into the people in Serbia, not only to gather opinions in a circle of two in Belgrade, but to go to the Shop, Rekovic, Knic, let them go to other parts of Vojvodina and see how those citizens in the Republic of Serbia who took loans to buy a car a year ago, two or three people who took loans to lease, who took loans to buy small apartments for themselves or for their children, those small businessmen who took loans for their family shops or small businesses, businesses, how they live today, how they manage to get back credit, if the course of the dinar in this country has only increased by more than 15% in the last six months. I guess it's somebody's fault. It's not the citizens' fault, it's not the MPs, it's those who create the country's monetary policy, and this country's monetary policy is created by the governor of the NBS, the vice governors and the council. Whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should also have influence, the government has been elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that it can, and I say that it must control what the NBS is doing and what they do by managing people in the NBS. Just to make one dig – is it true what the press says, that only for the last month or two, in the NBS where the salaries are extremely large, 90 new workers have been admitted? As workers are fired everywhere, the NBS increases their number of employees. I'm saying if that's true. On the other hand, you heard what the average salaries in the Republic of Serbia are, but those average salaries or profits in other parts, when several cities in Serbia are excluded, are far below that average. We come to the fact that the governor and his associates and the vice governors have salaries that are borderlined by the three-year earnings of ordinary workers or employees in some smaller municipalities, etc. The issue of NBS independence is raised. Normally, I'd fight to be so independent, I could do whatever I want at that firm. The Serbian Parliament must establish control over the NBS, so that it knows who is doing what and how it is doing. What are these new products coming out of the NBS, so they can pay in the NBS to be that big? When we talk about the right of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to regulate certain areas by regulations, I guess this National Assembly, which has received trust from citizens of Serbia, has established power through its MPs, has the right to regulate monetary policy, financial institutions, etc. The question arises – why is it said in advance that when this law is passed, and I say to you, gentlemen who oppose it, that it will be adopted by a large majority and that after that, we will see what it will do with its application and new staff solutions in the NBS, why do we say in advance that something will not be good? If we are some prophets, we know that something will not work in advance because it will change. We've changed laws both in the past and in the urgent process and in the regular procedure, so these laws, some have brought about a better one, some have caused a lot of negative reactions in the Republic of Serbia by applying them, you know what laws I mean. When it comes to the agenda at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly, we will talk about it. Therefore, I think there is unnecessary dust rising, creating a concern and uncertainty among Serbian citizens. It is the right of this Assembly to amend the existing law that this ruling majority does not consider to be the best, that it should be arranged, that it should be amended or amended, etc., so that we can see what the results will be. So I repeat and appeal once again to all MPs of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who received a mandate from Serbian citizens in the elections of three months ago to vote for this law, to try and do everything in our power, to create better and monetary and financial and any other conditions, to bring our economy back to life in Serbia, so that citizens can live better, to hope for a better tomorrow. Therefore, I repeat, the JS parliamentary group with its coalition partners will support and will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u688	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga, and let the MPs of Predrag Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u689	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, amending the NBS Act today on the agenda, it is evident that in the shadow of a member who says that after changing the law, the management of the NBS is actually changing, so the governor will come down from his post by law force, which, according to us, is not good. Through meaningless amendments to the law, the governor is being replaced. An announcement by NBS Governor Dejan Soskovic could cause instability and fear of citizens, as well as additional investor caution. By amending the NBS Act, this institution, which should at any time be independent, shall be placed under direct control by the Executive Authority. The LSDV of its amendments, which we have several, wanted to complete these changes, and I ask the promoters to consider them, because we've really been working on them a lot, and we think that these changes that, in our opinion, maybe some of them shouldn't happen, but we want to complete them with the amendments. According to the Social Democrats League MPs, and in one of our amendments, we said there is no need for the supervision of financial institutions to exist as a special unit, as the National Bank of Serbia is already in office of supervision of financial institutions. In the light of this proposal, none of the benefits of such amendments to the law in terms of improving this function are listed. In terms of the control of financial institutions, especially banks, the trend is to go towards greater centralisation, i.e. This jurisdiction is just being introduced into the jurisdiction of the central banks and not being removed from the same. We have paid particular attention to the management of supervision of financial institutions, and I will say once again that it is not needed as an organisational unit, because according to a proposal, the director of this institution is already a member of the Executive Board, so there is no need to stress his role in achieving the objectives of the National Bank of Serbia. Given that in Article 14. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia lays down monetary and foreign policy, as well as activities to preserve and strengthen the stability of the financial system, and that the Executive Board is made up of governors and vice governors, it is not possible to take away the function of defining the foreign reserve strategy, because in that case other activities referred to in Article 14. The law on the National Bank of Serbia cannot be implemented within the executive board. One amendment has been heard that it will most likely be accepted, and refers to the purchase of paper of values issued by the Republic of Serbia or local self-government bodies, as well as the authorities of territorial autonomy on the secondary market, which allows direct borrowing to the National Bank of Serbia, and unless it is precisely regulated, can lead to inflation, which is directly contrary to Article 3. Law on the National Bank of Serbia. I would ask the promoter to take another look at our amendments, because although we will not vote for amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the amendments are good and will complete the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u690	Thank you. I would like to inform you that a new parliamentary group called National Minorities, People's Party and rich Serbia was educated in the National Assembly on 2 August 2012. The parliamentary group consists of five MPs. Parliamentarian Maja Gojkovic was appointed president of the parliamentary group, and MP Enis Imamovic was deputy president. We're continuing our work. The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Lapčević should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u691	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia are being passed in a truly specific atmosphere that is ruling in our country and in the financial monetary sector, as well as in the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since February of this year, we have a frozen arrangement with the IMF, growth of the euro course, growth of public debt and very strange and undefined statements by people who now make up the government of the Republic of Serbia on public finances arrangements and relations to financial institutions. But what is visible at first sight of what this government wants to do, is that one institution, which was largely independent and independent, which of course had contact points with politics, but which managed in many difficult moments to say – no, wants to put fully under its control, of course, under the fluuscule that the Assembly should have control over the National Bank, as if so far we didn't know what was going on with the National Bank. I also want to say that we are not satisfied with these 22 years of rebuilding multi-party reforms in Serbia. However, the reforms implemented in the banking sector may be the best reforms implemented by our society. It's interesting that the government, where we've made some step forward, wants that state to take a few steps back. Obviously, in public too, there are speculations about this in business circles, that the government needs to put the People's Bank under its control, that there are not so many people out of the profession as people from politics and people who will primarily respect policy orders. We think the government is playing dangerously with it, as well as with macroeconomic stability. If all that speculation is made in the public, that foreign exchange reserves will be spent, that they will be given to some elite businessmen, for whom there is a deficient name that tycoons are under the heading of economic development, that boomerang will wait for some time and it will have very devastating consequences for the country's macroeconomic and fiscal stability, which is in the condition of the global economic crisis as it has managed to preserve this very macroeconomic stability. This type of experience has already been experienced by some countries, such as Brazil, Argentina, and the Czech Republic. The consequences of their economies are really bad. In doing so, of course, as well as my colleagues from the parliamentary club, we do not view this issue as a personal issue, we want to protect in principle the independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia, which is with this attempt to amend the law and with a clear political intention, and we think that these are very dangerous intentions. We will, of course, follow what the new governor will do, whether this, which is widely discussed, will be the policy of the new governor and will be the steps of the National Bank of Serbia. Of course we will respond adequately, and of course I will repeat once again what I said in my first speeches, as well as my colleagues, that we will support everything that really is the serious reform moves of this government. For now, we see the government's intention to put everything absolutely under control, and it seems to us that, after the security service, the finances have come in line. Both moves, unfortunately, have taken great steps backwards. I don't want to remind you of the time when Milosevic first went to foreign reserves, then robbed a loan for Serbia's economic rebirth, an old foreign exchange savings, we had hyper inflation, we had a printing of money without cover. We think that here we need serious cuts, serious savings and reforms in this regard, not the announcement of possible printing of money without cover and possible inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u692	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Lapčević has the word, and let MP Zoran Ostojić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u693	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we understand the necessary executive authorities and the new assembly majority that there is a head of the National Bank of a man who can trust, as the president of the state today said, that so far it has never been disputed that even one government has no governor to cooperate with, but we find it strange how this place is being reached, which procedure. So today, we're getting an amendment to the National Bank Act, which is essentially not a problem. The members of the Law we are under today discuss the introduction of a new body of the Supervisory Board, which will have the capacity to control the work of financial institutions and to propose to the Council to withdraw the work permit and punish those institutions. It is also specified who can be elected governor, in which case he cannot be elected governor, if he has performed certain functions or performs certain functions that are incompatible with that function. As for us personally from the DSS, all these provisions are not controversial, but we do not understand a provision introducing a supervisory board that has certain functions that practically restrict the work of governors. We're introducing a new body that might have a bigger role than the governor himself. But since the proposal came from the majority, let them think about how it will work. All this would not be disputed if it were not for a member of the 26th, who said in the last position that the Governor, Vice Governor and Director of the Supervisory Board and members of the Council would be elected within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. So, practically on a small door through changes and additions to the laws, which some say are cosmetic, I wouldn't say they're just cosmetics, it's precisely a desire to get new leadership in the National Bank. We don't mind having a serious debate on the work of the current governor of NBS, Mr. Soskovic, the entire National Bank Council on what role the NBS played in the previous months or years on how it was involved or how it did not prevent scandals of financial nature in the "Metalsbanca", "Agrobanks", "The Commercial", "Serbian Bank". First of all, it is important for us to see how the National Bank acted in these cases, how it defended the course of the previous months, because it is clear to all of us, and I believe that there are no MPs here, and probably among the citizens, who are not burdened with loans and the sudden leap of war for these loans based on the growth of the euro rate. We understand that the National Bank is not the only one who can defend the course of the euro, but surely it has one of the most important roles and, therefore, it is very important for us to have a serious debate on the work of the current governor, regardless of the changes to this law, if any. We simply don't understand why it had to be a shortcut for this law to be passed, if it was an idea to change the governor and set up a new one, then it could have been through a debate in the National Bank's Labour Assembly, about the work of the governor, and then when a new governor is appointed who, of course, must be an absolutely competent and professional person, then the Law on the National Bank can be changed in such a laden, without any rush, in one normal way, through a normal congregation procedure that would certainly be much less boo-eyed than it is today. The Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled several amendments that complete and improve the text of amendments to the law and specify some provisions. We appeal to the assembly majority to consider them well in order to be incorporated into the text of these amendments to the law, and in any case we look forward to a debate on the work of the National Bank and the current governor, so that we can bring to the public the things we consider much more important than the amendments to the Law on the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u694	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Let MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u695	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that the governor's shift is here on the agenda even though that is not how the agenda is formulated. That's why I'm going to talk about it the most, not the law, which is the formal point of the agenda, but still respect the procedure. The formation of the Supervisory Authority is an interesting thing, and when you look at the powers of the Supervisory Authority, it is seen that it will essentially be the governor of the National Bank. I must commend that, because it shows that those who wrote the law are aware that one who will truly and nominally be governor of the National Bank still cannot do the job. That's positive, I think like them that whoever's gonna be governor can't do that job and he's not professional and qualified for it, and we'll see who's gonna be director of the Supervisory Authority. But something else is at stake here. Here is the beginning of a spiral of this government and it spirals down. Often this government in the West, and even those who were with half of this government in the government yesterday, are accusing us of returning to the '90s. years, I guess, thinking about what we've been through since the wars, crimes, etc. We don't think this government can bring us back, because it just changed everything compared to the '90s, so it's impossible, but it's possible some other return in the '90s. This is essentially the first law that the new government proposes and it in some way shows that desire or maybe it's not a wish but will be the result of the return to the '90s. And it's all said in so-called. Mr. Dacic's exposé. He stands for, among other things, a stable national currency. I'm only saying this for the sake of citizens, foreign currency and foreign money is as good as clams, as well as cigars, as well as shoes, as well as cars, as well as bread. Every commodity has a price. The price is higher when the goods are lower, and the price is lower when the goods are higher. The currency is gone and cannot be a stable course, i.e. the price of foreign currency in an unstable and this kind of economy. Yeah, and it's probably going to go towards this change of governor that the course seems to be stable, but that's what we had in the '90s. And that's why I'm talking about going back to the '90s. At that time, the National Bank course was stable, but they were the only ones who could be privileged to it, i.e. to the exchange rate on that course to come. Other citizens could buy foreign exchanges at a much bigger rate on the street than those who said "deposits, foreign exchanges". It will be a course, but someone will be able to reach him on that course, likely to pay off loans to his over-indebted companies, but the citizens will have to travel on the black market again. There will be a black market, inflation, because it's obvious that the governor is resented so-called. restrictive monetary policy. It will be expansional with the new governor, will be an increase in prices and will be a fixed course for the privileged, and for those who cannot reach that course will be much higher than it is now. That's the consequences. It's like adding two and two and somehow in the economy it's always four. When we talk about the governor and someone doesn't think we're defending the governor, I remind you, LDP didn't vote for Shoskovic, you didn't change Article 3. The main objective of the NBS is to achieve and maintain price stability. This is the first, only and main objective, no development, no use of foreign reserves in the development of the economy. It's in the law. If he'd worked differently, he'd have broken the law. The second position of the member -- the National Bank of Serbia, without prejudice to the achievement of this basic goal, contributes to the preservation and strengthening and stability of the financial system. So, if the fight to preserve the stability of the financial system is to question stability, or inflation, the governor must not deal with the stability of the financial system. His first goal is this, and the second is only if he's not jeopardizing the first. The third, without prejudice to both the first and second objectives, will support the implementation of the government of Serbia's economic policy, acting in accordance with the principles of market economy. So, if he's jeopardizing the first and second objectives, he doesn't care about the Serbian government's politics. That's what the law says. The one who follows the law has to work like this. I am not entering Agrobank and Lalet Sekulić and Nikezic, all of which you will untangle how you know and know, and you know who Lale Sekulić financed, certainly not LDP. Well, we're back in the '90s the way we were in the '90s. Prime Minister Dacic's exposure, from which this absolutely logically stems, the governor's shift, is at the level of the 1921 new economic policy of Lenin. Some opposition colleagues have said it's a list of good wishes, and I say it's a list of dangerous desires that I hope won't come true, but I'm aware that shifting governors is an instrument and a way to, unfortunately, achieve dangerous desires and goals. The system, which only knows the party that gave the prime minister, the printing of money and state interventionism and state administration, eventually characterized a lot, except for the printing of money, and the previous government not run by SNS but DS, remained the same. When there's a little currency, and there's little currency because there's no export, and there's no export because there's no foreign investment and nothing will change the fixed rate and the printing of money in that, except that it's going to tax all citizens through inflation that follows and whoever has yachts and ships and planes and whoever has 12,000 dinar pensions. Inflation taxes both. Obviously it's the government's decision, but no wonder, it can hardly do better than printing and politics from the 1990s. You know, no wonder this is happening. Happy peoples of two evils choose less, and the unfortunate peoples of two evils choose greater, and we, Serbian citizens, if you prefer Serbs, have chosen both of them, and that is why we will be as we will be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u696	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll be back to work at 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue with the work of Ljubisa Stojmirovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u698	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, today we are discussing the Law and amendments to the Law on the National Bank and such as practice in the Serbian Parliament, the position defends this law, and the opposition attacks it. However, something characteristic here, everyone generally agrees that there are no major changes that will make something significant here, but the problem is most colleagues and colleagues from the opposition to the governor's shift, namely the appointment of a new governor. Since it's not a topic today, I don't want to talk about it, but I'm going to say a few words about the bill. It is interesting and significant that these amendments to the law show up something that is very good to me, which is enhanced supervision and control of the work of the National Bank. If it is already the Serbian Parliament that passes the National Bank Act and appoints a governor, it is also good that it exercises serious control over that law and the work of the governors, which is foreseen by these changes. In my management science, two things matter. One thing is who's on top, or who's top managers, and the other is good control. Control as one as a management function has been tasked with always, at all times, bringing the system into the state we want. So I think that these amendments to the laws that are being proposed today, and they are related to supervision and control, can in many ways help the National Bank to do as it has set out in its statute and how its top management wants it. Parliament's control will only be an aid on that path and I believe and I think that assistance will be for Serbia and all Serbian citizens' sake. As far as these other changes are concerned, they are all aimed at achieving their basic objectives, which is the stability of the price and stability of the course, i.e. the desired monetary policy. I hope and believe firmly that, after these changes, the National Bank will be able to work even better, even better, and that it will be to the satisfaction of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u699	Next in line is MP dean mihajlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u700	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the DSS is a party that has always advocated the construction of institutions, the adoption of constitutions and laws that, through institutions and through independent regulatory bodies, would be the main guarantee of self-will and executive authorities. We witnessed in previous years that the previous government had done a lot, that it was these independent institutions and at all institutions, as well as all these independent regulatory bodies, that their influence was diminished and that we were in a position to put the executive authority, or one man who was going to ask everyone questions. We saw how far that got us. We figure we've all learned a lot from that experience we've had in years. So we at the DSS won't vote for this law, for one reason. Although we understand the need to discuss the National Bank and understand the need to change personal solutions in the National Bank regarding Governor Dejan Šoškovic, we believe that the way we are headed in this process of resolving Dejan Šoškovic is not something that can bring us much good. We have established the principle that the government and the governor must have the same concept. That principle is not in itself controversial and completely acceptable. And if we had held a debate here, first of all, about the governor of the National Bank, about his work, about the National Bank Council, we would have come to the same conclusion that it is necessary to make changes at the National Bank. We were against him when Dejan Šoškovic was elected, and we didn't vote for it. The DSS MPs then said we'd get into this situation that we're in right now. We also believe that before this law we had to have a debate on the work of NBS and Governor Šoškovic on the agenda, for several reasons. As long as you're changing this law, one fundamental problem is the next. You said the mandate of the new governor of the National Bank was five years. It's been reduced from six to five years, which is not controversial. You've left the Governor's discharge mechanism exactly the same as in this law. The next government, if managed by your principle, that the government and the governor must have the same concept, will have to re-session one of the sessions to amend the National Bank Act to change the governor, since the term of office of governor is longer than the government's mandate. If you already wanted to establish one such principle in this law, then you needed the governor's resolution mechanisms to adapt to this political idea, that the government and the governor must have the same concept. We'll use the debate on this law to say a few words about the governor of the National Bank and his work, since we won't have a chance to discuss it in this home. With the adoption of this law itself, it will be groundless, since on Monday or another day we will have on the agenda a choice of new councils and governors, and therefore, it will not be discussed but new people. What I want to talk about is that the governor of the National Bank in their decisions and the National Bank Council in the last two years since they were elected, they've had a lot of wandering, they haven't responded in time to the changes that took place in Serbia, and they've rarely made decisions that weren't in the interest of citizens, they've been more in the interest of commercial banks. Today, when we have more than 900,000 mortgage loans in Serbia, a few hundred thousand lisings, when the standard of living is down and there are many loans taken in Swiss francs, the National Bank had to take measures to protect Serbian citizens from the will of commercial banks. It is a growing problem in the Republic of Serbia. Credits taken in Serbia, which there are many, which were normal during the period during the government of Vojislav Kostunica when general growth was recorded and when conditions, economics and average earnings were such that they allowed loans to be taken and better to live, and now unfortunately this is not the case, which is because of the global economic crisis, which due to the inability of the previous government and the National Bank itself, Serbian citizens have come into the situation that a good number will not be able to service debts. Taking into account that living standards will continue to fall, according to the agreement that we are expected to sign with the IMF in order to ensure that Serbia survives for the next year, Serbian citizens will not be able to feel the rise of the standard of living more significantly, especially the salary in Serbia. The new National Bank and the new leadership must not repeat the mistakes of Governor Soskovic, who acted more like the protector of commercial banks and extended government arm than he acted as the protector of citizens whose best interests should be protected. That's why the DSS has no intention of upholding this bill. We want one responsible way to talk about Governor Shoskovic's work. The only good thing he's done in the last few months is not allowing a group of businessmen to break into foreign exchange reserves and that little money that's left is poured into the pockets of a group of businessmen and that the citizens are no use again. His leniency towards the problems that Serbian citizens and even Serbia face, and the situation in which we are in, is scandalous. That is why this authority owes citizens a debate on Governor Šoštic. You should think of a way to discuss the work of the National Bank in the previous period, because we believe that the lessons to be learned from the last period of the National Bank must be very important and not repeat in the next period. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote against and we will insist on any future solutions to be people who will be able to deal with the problems that are coming to us and who will be able to respond courageously and resolutely to the time of the crisis that awaits us, and the crisis far from having passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u701	Thank you. Next, the People's Messenger, Milovan Dracun, was declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u702	Mr. President, the honourable MPs are one of the most frequently asked everyday questions in Serbia, certainly – how much is the euro today? Euro four years goes from day to day up, dinar goes down. Such a trend has introduced a vast majority of citizens into daily gatherings and a decline in living standards. The business plan created an unsustainable situation, the inability of long-term planning and a stable business mile, which is opposed to the necessary economic development. All those who directly or indirectly influence the value of the national currency shall bear responsibility for such a situation, for the provision of dinars and the fall of standards. They didn't work well, they didn't meet citizens' expectations. It is an obligation for new authorities to miss their corrections and prevent them from continuing their mistakes. The National Bank of Serbia is an extremely significant pillar of the country's economic security and financial stability. Our goal is to place the National Bank of Serbia in the position of economic development and financial stability in a sustainable and perspective, and to achieve a strategic goal, a better life for the citizens of Serbia and economic prosperity, but also to prevent the abuse of the National Bank of Serbia by some powerful stakeholders and individuals as a practice in the previous period. In order to achieve this goal, we need to amend and supplement the National Bank of Serbia Act and certain human resources solutions. I do not see what is controversial in the reasons for the adoption of the law if, among other things, the law provides for adjustments to be made in order to increase the supervision of the National Assembly over the Central Bank in accordance with constitutional provisions, to then increase the responsibility of the National Bank's authorities, in part to limit and to specify the authority of the governor, the executive board of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has an interest in respecting these reasons for the law. We did not get a mandate from the citizens of Serbia to continue the destruction of the economy, the robbery of state money, the enormous borrowing, the drastic decline in quality of life, the destruction of jobs, which left us with the former regime, but to create discontinuity with the overall collapse and create conditions for living standards to rise, and we need the National Bank of Serbia to do so. Speculation that the new law and change of governors will endanger our relations with the IMF and the World Bank, obtaining a date for the start of EU membership negotiations, where they will bring us back to the 1990s, where it will lead to a major drop in dinars are not well-intentioned and at least constructive. Such speculation scares citizens and threatens financial stability. The threat of citizens is a test method of action of the former regime. They were always afraid there would be a flood if they weren't in power. Then let's choose them and our current governor for life, so they don't scare us anymore. The citizens in the election said they were unhappy and wanted to change. They gave us a mandate to make these changes, and we do. Part of the change is the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the possible change of governors. For the changes, we need new laws or additions to existing ones, but also new people who will apply these laws in the best way possible. The National Bank of Serbia is vital to the country's prosperity and quality of life for citizens. That is why it is necessary to improve its work, increase its efficiency and put it into development. That is why we need to amend and supplement the Law on the National Bank and the new leadership of the National Bank of Serbia. In the end, we have heard that citizens have chosen in the past elections of two less evils. Fortunately, they did not choose the greatest evil for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u703	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u704	Dear fellow MPs, perhaps this debate would not look like this if we really had amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia today that would involve a certain change in work or in the organisation or supervision of the Central Bank's work. This law, however much those who defend it try to conceal its true purpose and its true essence, speaks of something else. So he talks first of all not about the need to establish control over the work of the Central Bank by parliament, but rather about the possibility of establishing political control over the work of the National Bank of Serbia. The moment someone wants to say, why did you panic, we don't threaten the independence of this institution, then they must understand that there are people that can't be deceived by cheap demagogy, that there are people who can understand why you came to power with demagogy, but they also know that demagogy in power cannot sustain you. It is now possible to talk here about honorable intentions, how a different system of work of the National Bank is being set up, how people whose people we are representatives of are the work of the National Bank, but the essence of this law is that they want to establish complete control over an institution, such as the National Bank of Serbia. At the same time, this law, however we try to cover it up and say it's not about that, opens another topic. So, why is he being brought? It is brought in due to the need for the executive authority to establish control over the Central Bank and, on the other hand, because those people who are now managing and representing the National Bank should be removed because they are not in agreement with the new government's intentions of what to do with the National Bank and with foreign reserves. Those people should be appointed to implement these intentions by the executive authorities in the central institution. So there's no illusion of what's really going on here today. The question is, if someone wants to say that the governor of the National Bank didn't do well or that he didn't comply with the law of the intended obligation, why don't we have a debate today about the work of the governor of the National Bank, where we'd have a chance to hear the governor of the National Bank, so let's see what reasons some are unhappy with his work? So, what did they want, how did they want to do the interference and control over foreign exchange reserves, and what are the real motives they want to replace it for? In addition to the conditions defined by law on how the governor of the National Bank can be removed, there are very clearly specified conditions. This law really introduces the practice that the shift of governors and the complete leadership of the National Bank of Serbia is carried out under the law of Article 26, which says – from the day of its appearance, 90 days after that, the new leadership of the National Bank of Serbia is elected. Although some are trying to tell us that this law tells us how it wants to improve work and increase the control of the work of the National Bank and that we who claim to be this law, the personal change at the top of the National Bank, attempt to move one person away, in order to bring a very specific person to the head of the institution, deny themselves. It is quite obvious that according to their claims and the prime minister's claim, it is precisely the need for a shift at the head of the National Bank of Serbia to be carried out. So, the prime minister says in his exposé that foreign reserves are too large, which shows only the executive's intention to drag his hand into foreign reserves. It's just that we're hoping that with that hand and that money, they'll do something that's useful for everyone, and not just for some, what we're looking for is very justifiable. So we have all the possible indicators that we can be very concerned about. So, if it was necessary to carry out greater control, which we can understand, to exercise greater control over the work of the National Bank, so on what the National Bank is doing and on the effects of what the National Bank is doing, we have been open to any possible discussion on how to carry out a greater control. Since this is about really establishing the most brutal political control over the NBS, then of course it's our obligation to say, we see you doing it, we warn the citizens that you are doing it, we warn the citizens that the consequences of it can be catastrophic. The story of how their credits will be smaller is eye dizziness. It is that this can and most likely lead to a spiral of dinar value, in the spiral of inflation, and that automatically means that the highest price is paid by each citizen individually. Not those who will use foreign reserves for their economic projects, but will pay for it by the citizens of Serbia, and then indeed, the difference they now have in paying off credit will look ridiculous compared to what their life will be in such inflation. I think the very idea of establishing control over institutions is not bad and could be the subject of a serious conversation and could also have a certain kind of support, but under this law it is clearly seen that it is only a collateral consequence of each other and other's intentions. Just in the end, let me say. A statement for EU membership is not enough. These are all the steps they're going to judge us by. I'm quite sure this step will be very negatively assessed. I'm pretty sure we're gonna have the NBS after a while, back on the agenda, when we're doing this amazing NBS management shift. The law will return under the pressure of the EU and we will change it by returning those solutions that allow greater independence and make it impossible for the executive authority to drag its hands into foreign reserves. It's the nature of the executive to ask for money everywhere. It's the nature of the executive government to be popular and to look for a way to place you and stay popular. The essence of what is our need as a society is to implement essential reforms, they are not popular and that we do not in any way endanger the country's macroeconomic stability. This law is not going to happen. Like the first law to come to this Assembly, which the new parliamentary majority has shown its intentions, about the need to make the law for a man who should have full control over all security services. This is a law that is made for one person to have full political control over the NBS. And as the Government Act has shown its intention to replace all those who are party and politically inadequate all claims that this is not a return to the '90s, the very ones who propose these laws are being denied. This is back in the '90s, by what's done, not by what's supposed to be wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u705	The word is Mr. Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that we are spending too much time dealing with some personal solutions and that all MPs have not sufficiently examined this law proposed by the assembly majority, because the ruling majority is the fact that the governor's powers so far will be significantly reduced by this law. The fact is that the ruling majority wanted to clearly separate the obligations and tasks of the executive board, which has the NBS Council and the supervisory board formed by this law. So, I don't think there's any need to spend so many words on some personal solutions. I think economic policy, monetary policy and the commitment to financial consolidation mean a very high risk to Serbia in some future period. We need to be aware of these risks. I believe that a large number of MPs are aware of it, but we are not fully aware that in our environment we have very negative trends that can significantly affect Serbia's financial stability and the stability of the financial sector. The big problem with our economy is the fact that we now have a bigger outflow of foreign exchanges than we have inflows. That in the next period we will have a problem with the inflow of foreign funds, that we have a clear weakness, a serious weakness in the course of dinars that have a significant impact on the situation and on liquidity and economics, has a significant impact on the standard of all citizens. These are all the problems we have to face in some future period and that the desire of the ruling majority is to have adequate answers and to have leverage of the authorities that we can face the challenges ahead of us. A large number of businesses today cannot meet their credit obligations, a large number of citizens cannot meet, an increasing delay. The interest rate, the interest rate, I don't think there's any need, a lot of MPs were talking about today. These are all the problems facing the ruling majority, and I think you've pointed out a few times that you need a lot of courage at this point, taking responsibility. We're willing to take that responsibility, but have a little confidence. Look at the concrete steps. Let's not deal with personal solutions. I'm saying, in this law, they're not a priority. I would say, first of all, that control and supervision of financial institutions and what is positive, I would say from the discussion of most MPs, it is that we all agreed that the supervisory board is a good solution offered by the ruling majority. That we're all dissatisfied with the fact that the NBS has serious bank failures. To miss out on you costs the citizens of Serbia quite a bit. Unfortunately, we have a transfer of responsibility from the NBS to the executive power, that the executive authority transfers responsibility to the NBS and that the current legal solution has not clearly defined the rights and obligations of the NBS in the case of control and supervision. The Supervisory Authority, I believe the greatest achievement of this law. In any case, this means one administration that is independent and will in many ways support the independence of the NBS. It will also mean better control of financial reports and better control of financial institutions' ratings, including what is most important, the protection of financial services users. So that's what the discussion should be based on, in my opinion, and that's what the ruling majority can boast of. I think there's a lot of doubt that the ruling majority is going to spend such a light foreign reserve. I think that in the law itself, some MPs, some opposition colleagues, have not noticed yet another proposal, which is that we finally have a strategy that implies foreign exchange management. So far, it's been with a number of discretionary rights. This time we have a strategy. Through this strategy, we will be able to assess how much NBS management adheres to these outlined guidelines in this strategy, and I am counting that we will also have foreign reserves in this sense that will certainly guarantee the stability of the financial sector, regardless of one mistrust and one suspicion that arises from opposition MPs. What is still very important in this law and which I would also like to praise, is the fact that when it comes to the payment traffic of NBS, in our view, that function has not been performed properly so far. That this law will allow the ability to control itself, to influence payment traffic, to disable at least what is obvious, when it comes to exporting illegal, illegal foreign funds, even certain money laundering. That the NBS in that sense would have much more serious ingenuity. I remind you that we also have accompanying documents, or regulations that come out of this law. The quality of these regulations will depend on the work of the National Bank itself in the future. I have no doubt at all, and I have no reason to doubt that these rules will be in the spirit of this law proposed to the National Assembly. And I generally think that by introducing a supervisory board, by defining clearly the tasks of the National Bank of Serbia Council, the Executive Board, we can count on the National Bank to be significantly more effective in the coming period than it is at this point. What I would point out, with the stability of the financial sector, which is also the aim of this law quite certainly and excessively, is that these proposed solutions create conditions that we also have more success in fighting corruption and crime, that is one of the promises of the ruling majority, that the fact that we have a supervisory authority that will co-operate with all law enforcement and have a more complete insight into the financial business of certain financial institutions that are linked to economic crime, I would also say with certain tycoons in the country, at least when it comes to individual privatisation, that in this sense we will have significantly more success and that in that dissatisfaction that is clearly with citizens, the way the privatisation process took place in the previous period, and that we will reduce this law because we will be significantly more effective in the fight against corruption and crime. When you add all of this up, I think, at least as far as we from the ruling majority are concerned, and I believe the MPs of the opposition can be satisfied with this solution, except for the election of governors and vice governors, I understand that there is some resistance there, but I would remind you that two years ago, in a very difficult way, we chose and replaced the previous governor, i.e. that the current opposition did so. I think what we are doing today is much more transparent, that the National Assembly has received much more serious information and that the work of the National Assembly is something that all Serbian citizens can monitor and assess how well-intentioned we are and how good the proposals are for both the governor and the vice governor that we will have in front of this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u707	Thank you. The next registered MP is Mr. Aleksandar Jotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u708	Please just tell me how much time is left for the SPO-DSS parliamentary group? (President: three minutes. Thank you. The SPO and DHSS MPs oppose the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, because we believe that the proposed changes threaten the Constitution and the law defined and guaranteed the independence of the most financial institution in our country. To be honest, the only reason to change this law is because of the ruling majority's intention to change the current governor and bring the governor to this place, not to say, to the governess. But since we don't know who it is and isn't here in the O.R., then we don't want to talk about the absentees. It is contrary to all legal extras that the governor elected under one law is changed by another, because it is the result that the law is passed only because... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Chotric, I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Chotric to complete his presentation. Thank you. It turns out that the law only changes because of the change of governors, and that means that every next time someone has to change in the front office, the law will change, and then this assembly will work as a jeweler 24 hours a day, we'll bring laws like on a tape, just to settle the human needs of the parties that make up the ruling majority, right in the post-election period, in which we're promised so-called. Department. It is now announced, we have heard here from several MPs, that a party figure will come to that place, headed by an institution that has a constitution defined its independence. Maybe that department doesn't apply to party members, maybe the department only applies to party members, that's what we'll see. I must point out that the SPO has no intention of defending the governor so far, we believe he's committed major failures in his work. This refers first of all to an inadmissible reduction in the value of the dinar compared to other currencies. This is not just about the course of the dinar, this is about the course of the government, or what the course of this government is going to be, whether it's going to be a course of European integration, towards Brussels, or whether it's going to be such a course that it's going to be difficult to define, that it's going to be there -- just moving. I'll remind you of the recent attempt by the government of Hungary, Prime Minister Orban... I'm just asking you to pay attention on time. I'm done. So a recent attempt by the Hungarian government to change the governor of the National Bank there failed. All that was happening there were EU institutions involved and Orban had to give up trying to change governors and thus the Hungarian government lost credibility in European institutions. Just one more sentence and I'm done with it. It's not promising when the new government makes mistakes in the steps, but in the first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u709	Thank you. Next reported is Mr. Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of discussions about the law so far, we've heard a bunch of general positions, general attitudes, how disastrous the law is, that it won't bring us into the EU, that we'll have problems like this and that. Let's talk professionally and not speak words like "saves" or anything like that and deal with the laws that countries have in the EU or countries that will soon become EU members. For members of the opposition and members of the former regime, I would recommend that they read for example. Law on the Croatian National Bank since 24 June 2008, Law on the Bank of Slovenia published in Working Journal No. 72 since 2006, the National Bank of Slovensko Act, which is the Slovak State, since 1992, was last amended in 2009, by the Bulgarian National Bank Act adopted in 1997, last amended in 2010. I'm just giving a few examples. Why? Because if you read, say, a member of the 45th Croatian law, you will see that the proposed law, which we have proposed, on the National Bank, is practically the same two members. If you read Slovenian law, Article 39, you will see that the discharge system has been introduced in Slovenia, which is an EU member, very similar to what we have proposed. If you read the Romanian law on the Romanian National Bank, they are members of the EU, you also have it in the English version, an unofficial translation, you will see that Article 3rd paragraph 3 begins with words – the National Bank of Romania will co-operate with the Romanian Ministry of Finance, and lists all the issues and all the criteria. Let's not fool any more citizens, that this law, which has been proposed by some non-European law. Let's not fool citizens anymore that the law is passed because of a man's shift or bringing in another man. Let us not speak on behalf of the EU anymore, that this law will have to be changed for this reason or for that reason. Let's accept the fact that most of the provisions of the law we have already proposed exist in certain laws that regulate central bank matter in the EU and not only central bank matter, so that you do not immediately start reading the laws on national banks, the Supervisory Authority is foreseen in laws that regulate the prevention of money laundering in most EU countries. So, I can only praise this draft law, I can fully argue, without bad words, extremely professionally say that it is fully in line with European standards, because European countries already have such provisions in laws and I can only ultimately suggest that we all adopt it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u711	Thank you. The next registered speaker is Mr. Milenko Deretta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u712	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm new to the Assembly, so I'm learning something all the time. I realized today that when the law is passed by emergency procedure because it is extremely important, we as MPs have to wait half an hour to finish one game, because the chairman, this concerns you, Mr. President, not until the game is over. So, the law isn't so urgent that we don't respect the procedure and thus underestimate the MPs we came in on time. Of course, here is seemingly talking about the functioning of the National Bank, but I would actually point to something else, what have many others pointed to, and that is the question – how does this law be passed? The way this law is passed is actually continuity with the former regime. This regime does exactly as the former did, i.e. avoids a fundamental and public debate on very important issues, such as the functioning and way of working and controlling the National Bank. We are resented here as an excuse for the objections we make to indicate the independence of an institution like the National Bank. Independence is no excuse, independence is the essence of an institution like the National Bank. I pray that this independence is fully respected, and I fear that the solutions offered, no matter what the previous speaker has given us, are all examples that we should look up to, should be overly respected by the independence of that institution. I have no doubt that all of these countries, members, candidates and others, have passed similar laws, but I am convinced that they did not take them by emergency procedure and I am convinced that they did not bring them without expert debate and I am confident that they did not bring them without the presence of the governor and the representative of the National Bank in this debate. At the same time, I must say that the way in which this law is passed and the motives, which I believe the public recognizes in them, are largely consistent with the way in which Article 38 was brought in. The Government Act, on staff changes that will take place in the institutions of the state. I must also say that one part of the professional public, which includes prominent economists, prominent lawyers and a large number of civil society organisations, has seen it as a harsh violation of the rule of law in Serbia, because it devises the position of independent institutions. This represents a certain kind of legal violence that needs to be encountered by the public. I am convinced that this reaction will be very violent the moment this law is passed and the change at the head of the National Bank is made and, apparently, the vice governor will fall in that cut. I'm going to skip the departmental issue because it's obvious that the department was one empty word used in the campaign, because everything that's happened since the new regime was established is talking about how party control is going to continue and that party control of everything may be even bigger than it's ever been before. What is worrying about me is that we do not speak on behalf of the EU, here who are present and who are trying to point to the problems of the proposed National Bank law. The European Union has already come forward on this issue and expressed its deep concern about the way this change is done. Thus, the way and what was proposed in this law had predictable consequences. The EU and monetary institutions protest were predictable. I ask the question – were these protests the expected consequences of passing such a law? Obviously, this law will have a major impact on the EU's view of our readiness to join the EU, and there are obviously some tendencies that this process will slow down as much as possible, not to say that it is completely stopping, because this might indeed be excessive. So the question of how certain laws are passed is extremely important. Avoiding public and professional discussion degrades the work of these congregations, and I must say, the executive authorities. We cannot discuss such a serious issue as the functioning, bad or good, of the National Bank, avoid a conversation that must be serious and we cannot avoid the presence of those who, under the current law, are authorized to make decisions on the resolution and the setting up of a new governor and a new vice governor. So I simply appeal to this regime to avoid what it has done and to respect the process of public debate, to respect the process of expert opinion that can be expressed by those who do not directly participate in the work of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u713	Thank you. Before I give my word to the previous speaker, you said at the beginning of your discussion that the session was 30 minutes late because I was watching the game, which, of course, is absolutely not true. The transfer of the National Assembly was not possible during the period during which the water polo match lasted between Serbia and Montenegro's team. Respecting that decision and ensuring the full public work of the National Assembly, we began the session at the time when technical conditions were created for it. If I were a private person, I'd say I'd be happy to watch ours win, but this time I was led by the interest of the Serbian citizens, so I have to say it's really not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u714	I believe that's the case, but I'm asking you to inform all the groups that exist in the Assembly in the future, so that we know when to get here, not half an hour early. I wish I'd watched us win. Unfortunately, we haven't, we've been playing rough, but maybe that's not bad, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u715	I accept your suggestion as far as the intelligence is concerned. Thank you. Our next speaker is Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u716	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, from the authorised representatives of the former regime's parties, we have heard really interesting criticisms of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia today. The criticisms were based on Djako's rebellion, on 19th-century philosophers, were also visited by grandfather Avram and his dinar from 1994, until 2000, but no more than 2000 and 5 October 2000, as if in the past 12 years Serbia had experienced honey and milk. In my humble opinion, it's a pure demagogue that, unfortunately, you've been able to apply for the past 12 years. I have a reasonable doubt that the experiences you are promoting will not provide us with macroeconomic stability and a low inflation rate. That is precisely what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia are interested in and are in the priorities of the current new government of the Republic of Serbia. In today's debate, but also in the media that are under control, and the ownership and editorial control of individuals from the former regime, conducts fears of losing independence and the NBS and, of course, the governor of the NBS. The National Bank Governor's Council is the first instance to assess the work of an independent governor. As a rule, the National Bank and Governor's institution would be independent, and the NBS Board itself must be independent. However, one of the members of the NBS Board is Mr. Milojko Arsic. On the side that Mr. Arsic, and you can see it in all means of information, advocates the sale of Telecom, Galenika, JAT, which is openly advocated and is against the reduction of VAT on baby equipment, perhaps I can forgive it, it is his personal matter, however, that Mr. Milojko Arsic was an adviser to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, and before that, on the payroll "CES Mecon", he took away an act of independence from him. Mr. Costa Josifidis, with all due respect to Mr. Costa Josifidis as a professor and head of the Department of Economics, a lecturer at the Faculty of Philosophy, is doing numerous projects related to regional secretaries where he earns money, which you can also see in the means of information, more than seven million dinars a year. Those facts also rob him of the act of independence. These people, members of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, chose the former regime and then you didn't mind whether or not it would be, and in this way we see that they were financially dependent on the former regime's decisions. This bill confirms, or restores the oversight function of the National Assembly, that is, Article 2 of this law I do not see why this would be a problem. Why would anyone fear the control mechanism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Besides, Article 95. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines that the Central Bank of the Republic of Serbia is independent and subject to supervision by the National Assembly to which it is responsible. The National Bank of Serbia will agree, and I am sure, in the previous period, had poor control over the banking sector, which led to the collapse of Agro Bank, as well as poor business as the Vojvodine Development Bank, as well as the Business Bank of Belgrade, in which the state, although having other priorities, had to pump nearly 100m euros in the previous period. For this reason, it is good that Article 3 of this Law is educated by a special organisation called the Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, which will also do business as the term speaks itself - control, or supervision of financial institutions. This article defines what financial institutions are, i.e. banks, insurance companies and voluntary pension funds. The SNS will support this bill in voting day, as it will allow for better functioning of the National Bank of Serbia, and also does not affect the independence of the Central Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u717	Thank you. Next reported is MP Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u718	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a bill on the National Bank and when the text itself is looked at and the way it came before the National Assembly, I do not think it is incorrect to say that everything has been done wrong. Errors stem from the very way of coming to the agenda, from the effects this Law will cause on a short period of time, as well as from the effects it will have on the long term. We have had the opportunity to present the presentations of MPs, including the opposition MPs, that the National Bank is very important, that its role is crucial in the country's economic system. I think they were right, but that's exactly the kind of approach they gave, it's actually talking about how this law should never have been submitted to the congregation by an emergency procedure. He had to, as he tang key things of importance, which would be long-term, open up public debate, listening, discussion, and only then adopt one such key legislative proposal. Also, extremely unusual, although I must say, it is not against the law that a systemically crucial law in a professional area such as the National Bank is not proposed by the resolution authorities. So, this law was not proposed by the finance and economy ministry, nor was it proposed by the National Bank, but was proposed by a group of MPs by an urgent procedure. That, in my opinion, and also based on what the DS parliamentary group considers, is completely wrong. We also had the opportunity to hear in the various arguments given here, an explanation of how the National Bank made bad moves, how it had poor results in terms of course, in terms of protection, or control of the banking sector. This very argument is in conflict with the fact that these problems are solved by law, in fact, by proposing the law on the grounds that they were mishandled. We abolize those who did bad work, because it means that if they had a better law and their results wouldn't be bad. So that's two completely opposite things. One thing is to open up a debate about work, and it could always open, and the other thing is law and create a completely different system environment. In this way, we give political qualifications, we do not allow people to come out with their views and bring the law behind it. The direct negative effects of this law are, in part, contained in the very fact that it is proposed by an emergency procedure. First of all, I mean the financial system supervisory office, but this time I don't think about it being negative, but it's not well-examined enough, and because we're introducing some system-specific and new solutions, the law had to go through a public debate, and then only after a serious, professional debate comes to the assembly. Also, since the amendments will discuss the details, I just want to point out one more important thing, which is that the law explicitly established the possibility of so-called. Secondary purchases of state papers by the National Bank, which simply means mass printing of money without cover is allowed. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but that's what's in the article, I'm looking at 18 as an explicit possibility. Of course, there's also a question of reducing the degree of independence, including personal independence, and I think that the whole story is basically against the constitution, with me not being a lawyer to take my views on it. The lasting negative effects of this law are viewed first and foremost in that it is the third law in line to be passed, which specifically resembles one another. First, it's a law that puts civil servants in a position to be removed by the executive authority. Then, the law under which the holders of administrative powers are also dependent on the executive authority and we finally have one attack, so to speak, on the independence of the National Bank. These three laws, one after the other in a brief and urgent procedure, take us back. I'm not going to bid in what years, but it's safe that after the adoption of these laws, we don't have the same economic environment we've had so far. In the end, I would like to tell my colleagues with whom the DS has made the previous coalition government and with whom we have jointly passed all these laws and strengthened the independence of independent authorities and of the executive authority, to appeal to them that, looking at this series of abolishing those democratic achievements that we have aged, they have considered whether they really want us to take two steps backwards. Of course, in the meantime, we have also passed the Law on the fact that the mandate of the MPs is incomparable and therefore every single person must know that it is no longer a matter of the party that ordered him to do so, but that he is also a participant in the process that is happening here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u719	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to inform the National Assembly that I have received the written resignation of Governor Shoskovic. The next registered speaker is MP Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u720	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here all the time is lamented over the alleged independence of the NBS, and in fact we avoid saying that it was an absolute addiction to the people of the former regime. Unfortunately, it was interrupted a little while ago, and that's exactly what I want to say to another part of the discussion that I've prepared. All the time we've been here, we've been avoiding starting with one basic term, and that's the economic policy of the new government. Here was a merger of what was the economic policy of the former government and, of course, the NBS policy in the previous period in which, three months ago, citizens brought their own court elections. We, as a state, came to the brink of bankruptcy. It is likely that economic policy indicators will show that the situation may be more difficult than the public had the opportunity to be familiar. The decline in general production and exports, also, never more imports, never greater budget imbalances, are all indicators that justify the need for this to be the very first draft of the law and that this should be discussed. I think it is necessary to combine a decision on the new government, the position of over 150 MPs that it is a good story for the future for the next four years and, of course, that the new NBS policy should be put in the same direction. This all has one logical clue in itself, and it's a good chance we're dealing with this topic right now. Of course, the former regime is talking about the following things. It speaks of alleged independence that is threatened by the elements of the new economic policy, and we are trying to protect this new independence by effectively avoiding Article 95. The Constitution, which says this assembly has the right to control the work of the NBS. We're just saying that we don't need a new constitution when we're protecting some lines of former power, the channels through which the political system was being destroyed when there was a huge wealth, and then we call ourselves not so-called. The story of the European Union, because you only think you have the right to talk about it. The same European Union has sent several messages lately that are very clear. The first and basic message is that the media in Serbia are absolutely dependent and that control of them belongs to the people of the former regime. The judicial system, you have these days had a decision by the Constitutional Court that is welcomed with enthusiasm both in the professional and in the circles of public policy and among ordinary citizens as a demonstration of statehood and a return of statehood within the frameworks of the Constitution. Finally, you have another fact, which is the EU's requirement to review 24 privatisations, at which time these privatisations were made. It's always coming up in 2000, and there's some leftovers of the former regime, so we're gonna pull our paws, as some say here, in the pocket. I don't know if I understood correctly, did it refer to us, the MPs, that we have our paws here or that these are our members of the government, so they have our paws? As far as I know, paws have animals, so I'd like to ask the MP to apologize to all of us here for using those terms that are rude. Of course we've been elementing here all the time on the alleged need for inflation to come here now, that money will be printed again like the '90s, that there will be a price hike and that there will be a general failure of society. About what happened in the previous elections, the people's court said. He said the collapse of society has already occurred and that the parliamentary majority can only give him hope of recovery. One of the measures for recovery is the need for such legal text, which will clearly specify both the elements and the pathways to halt the growth of the euro, stabilise the course of the dinar, carry out absolute control of the country's finances and to control and reroute the banking sector towards a new economic policy, by reducing interest rates, by reducing the level of risk, to increase the volume of plasma to the export sector, perhaps towards the formation of new banking institutions that will have the effects of sound and new economic policies and through which serious levels of development will be financed. When you add up the need for these elements and the threat that someone from the EU or here would threaten to have some demonstrations because the governor resigned, I guess he was aware that he should go because there are elements where the policy was not done properly. I think what the people of the former regime say, not even allowing the elements of the new policy to begin, just points to the need for further sowing of chaos in this society. I think that with all citizens and the largest number of people who have supported their votes, the former regime has simply lagged out the need for one need for destruction or destruction. Enough of all these national methods and measures. All of them had hoped that a healthy economic foundation could come into life through the new system of government and slowly recover Serbian economy, start employment and slowly return to the scene of real values. The dictatorship of power and lamentation over the mourners of the past 12 years, the need to rule all processes of a society, to reach out to the small brain of each voter and to either threaten or blackmail him or in any other way simply indicate the need to take care of how he behaves and that he can only live well to the extent that someone gives him a chance if he votes for the former regime, simply, lost to importance and that a time has come that will not soon return to Serbia. It is the ultimate insolence from here to use a pay phone and to call the newly elected president of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, and to take away his right to comment on a few excelling events in this country and to support changes that are necessary. In the end, the people of Serbia gave him the right to comment on all the events in this Serbia. You must know that, gentlemen of the MPs of the former regime. He gave him one more right. When you ask anyone in Serbia what Tomislav Nikolic did, no one says he's made any mistakes so far and the people of the government and the opposition say every move he made was in place. Respect the people's will, gentlemen of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u721	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u722	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an opposition MP, whenever possible, I used the opportunity to say something positive at first about a legislative proposal. However, this bill on the National Bank is one of the few cases where I can't take advantage of this opportunity, because I really couldn't find anything positive about this law. In fact, this law, as it has already been clear to all of us, was an introduction to the shift of governors, namely the pressure that led to the resignation, but even more dangerous than that, is that this law is actually a clean attack on the independence of the central bank, which is otherwise protected and guaranteed by law, and that is what is bad and dangerous. Because not only does it facilitate the procedure for the governor's shift, but the position of the future governor is devastated by introducing a supervisory board, so the future relations between that administration and the governor himself are unclear. Not to mention that the Board of Governors is also devastated, not only by not participating in the resolution of the governors, his opinion will not be respected, but also because it will not be the most responsible body for the adoption of the statutes, but it will be transferred to the National Assembly. What is common is the way this law is adopted, by emergency procedure and within 24 hours, and I remember while Serbian Progressive Party MPs were the opposition party, that they used every opportunity to fiercely and sharply criticise the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, so they fell on the first test here, as far as that goes. So, the procedure collapses with this law, the procedure for rescheduling governors, and the way the rules are passed and the procedure itself collapses. And the procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of democracy. And that's what's dangerous here. This procedure is actually the last dam to defend against party and personal impulses, and here, party impulses are absolutely naked, and that's what my colleagues have been talking about. So what you were talking about and you swore to the department, it was absolutely questionable here. That proves another fact. In the past 20 years, Serbia has had eight governors, no one has welcomed the end of the mandate, even Milosevic has proposed a non-party figure, however, has later replaced it, but no candidate for governor has been in such a high position, so vice president and founder of the ruling party, of course, that's not good. The promoter made no argument that convinced us, nor could it, indeed it was impossible, that this law was some real need, it was only due to this satisfaction of party interests. (President): Please, time. Here I go. We suggest that the consequences are far-reaching. It can affect price stability, discouragement of investors. The IMF has already expressed concern that the conditions will not, will not be a broken arrangement, but the issue is under what conditions an arrangement with the IMF will be made. As far as the EU is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, let's see what the European Commission's report looks like and whether this law will be found negatively assessed. All in all, what is also a disastrous consequence is that this all seems to us and leads to the ruling coalition's intention to use foreign exchange reserves of 10 billion euros, to actually help the import lobby, and again to the burden and damage of a small economy, which should be a priority and which should be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u723	Thank you. Next, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u724	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, so the whole story today is that the Serbian Progressive Party, by amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, has actually introduced some cosmetic changes that do not affect the work and functioning and functions of the National Bank of Serbia, but that it is once again a human-made law. These are constant criticisms that have been coming since the start of the new parliamentary majority. As far as it's true, we'll see in one case that a good clagworth gave one of the previous speakers who said - this is the third law in a row that was brought in. Yes, it speaks convincingly of the fact that we have approached the very beginning of our mandate of reforms in society, among other things, the NBS. This is what I support – 11 June 2010 then, Governor Jelasic gave "Beti" a statement on amendments to the Law to strengthen the independence of the NBS. The vice president of the SNS board, which they called the governor here, which I think is a lapsus lingwe, which shows a serious thought unconscious flow, because the governess is someone who's caring, who's responsible, to whom you give your children to guard, and that's a very nice commendation for Mrs. Jorgenka. I am truly delighted with the way you perceive it in the fullest sense of its quality and I welcome it, although someone would say it is wrong, not the contrary, it shows that you highly appreciate its responsibility. She then said in 2010, she criticised the transportation changes to the NBS Act, citing -- that their adoption of the NBS would become an institution above the government, courts and citizens of Serbia. I'll have to quote, so just give me a minute. If 126 MPs adopt such a law, Serbia will face an institution that is above the government, which is above Serbia's courts and citizens. The National Bank of Serbia defines any council or co-operation with the government as a threat to independence, and the government only needs to cover the loss created by the NBS by bad decisions. In doing so, there are no legal sanctions or consequences for those bad decisions, and then the fact remains, that when there is no law, then the only punishment is your conscience. But it wasn't in the previous parliamentary majority either, to tell the government. She said then – that according to the proposed amendments to the law, courts cannot judge in administrative disputes, where the NBS is competent and added that it is foreseen that the governor remains protected even after leaving that post because he is not responsible for the damage done. Therefore, what was said two years ago by that person you are today criticising as a possible candidate for the post of governor is proof of the continuity of a serious policy, one serious analysis of what was not right in the institution that manages and manages the stability of the financial system and which leads the country's foreign and monetary policy. This is where you said your paws were placed in foreign exchange reserves. The previous speaker said we had reduced the Council's powers, which was also chosen by the National Assembly's financial committee. I must tell you that according to our proposals to amend this law, instead of the executive board, the NBS Council will bring forward a foreign reserve management strategy. I don't know in what way and in what way are these two views about us reducing the Council's intelligence and introducing some kind of executive authority? I see here a mess in a notional-categoral apparatus. That's what you learn in the first or third year of college when you have a methodology, you know? When you do an analysis of the content, then you see that executive power through the amendments, so this law that the SNS put on the agenda today and we're discussing, actually has no analytical value. There is no interference of the executive authority. This is all about strengthening the legislative authority, strengthening the role of parliament, all of us 250 MPs here. If the Council was a body that directly carried out the oversight function in the name of the National Assembly, because the members were elected through the Financial Committee, the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, so isn't it normal for you to protect each other now, instead of five people, who, when they function as a group in one body, can also be fraternised, some personal relations, and yet it's normal to protect each other, so isn't it so logical that 250 of us have a more supervisory function, or role, as you will, than this Council that also performs a function on behalf of the National Assembly? I didn't understand that kind of content analysis, but well, maybe it's not thinking straight. You just have to convince me of that. It's still a story about how this law is tailored to one man and how it has nothing to do with the departmentalization, it's also amazing, some inverse, logic that I didn't understand. Why? Two years ago, the then president of the Republic, who was also president of the DS, and performed the role of Prime Minister, and the rich and foreign minister, was not known what was not in the state, called on one person, one person, Mr. Shoskic, whose professional qualifications were never questioned and questioned, and on his proposal he became governor. That's what we criticized back then. I just read about the criticism that was then sent from the same party that puts this on the agenda today on the fifth or sixth day of its term. Isn't that proof of seriousness, responsibility, continuity in politics? I don't understand that kind of argument, but that's what the citizens are going to judge. I just wanted one more thing, which is very interesting to me, which is that we are destroying independence and independence in the work of the National Bank of Serbia. I am not an economist, but I would like someone to convince me otherwise – does the independence of the National Bank of Serbia in the conduct of monetary foreign exchange policy and maintaining the stability of the financial system mean total exclusion from the general economic policy and particularly macroeconomic policy, as some opposition MPs have said, where in no way should the country's macroeconomic stability be questioned? Of course he can't. So, the National Bank is independent in selecting mechanisms of procedures and measures, which will support the country's macroeconomic stability and find a bond with what is the government's economic policy. We've predicted that with these changes. There's nothing controversial about it, and as one of the predecessors said, devasting ways to resolve it, so Article 28 is not touched. So the ways and mechanisms for dispensing governors are not touched. So, I don't know why, maybe I'm misreading, go ahead, I think we've made a very normal, good proposal to amend the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which will certainly improve independence in the right sense and say, strengthen legislative power, and thus European and democratic efforts of the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u725	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u726	I'll be very brief. I think we'll understand each other easily. There is the only possible proportion, and that is the greater control, the less independence it is, whether we are Members of the people, or the National Assembly. It's just pure, simple and very simple to understand evidence. So, more control, more control, stronger control, less independence. Is that right? Secondly, what bothers us, we've been saying that here it's completely naked and demonstrated that policy suppression over the economy, or monetary system, which can lead to serious consequences. In the end, I said that the governor was devastated, and he was and he was, because it is unclear how this supervisory board would function, what his powers would be, and what the authority of the future governor would be, because so far she was a service within the National Bank, which was subordinated to the governor. The Council is devastated, Madam People's MPs, by not being the most responsible for the adoption of the highest act of the National Bank, which is the Statute, but by relocating that competence to the political authority, that is, the legislative authority, or the National Assembly. The council will no longer participate, will not give an opinion on the resolution of the governors, which is also a leap of the profession in favour of politics. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u727	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u728	So I won't be long. The National Bank of Serbia is independent and independent, Article 2, in the performance of its functions as established by this and other law, subject to the supervision of the National Assembly. So by its nature, she is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly and is responsible for her work. We think she was not responsible enough and did not show sufficient co-operation with what is the most legislative body of every state, a parliamentary democracy, such as Serbia. As for your parliamentary group, which, as far as I could see today, was most commended for not even supporting this law in the previous government, so they did not support the past law that passed the previous parliamentary majority, I must tell you, I quote Rene Dekart, lived well, who lived undetected. You're still living undetected, don't vote for anything, and that's the future you're leading in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u729	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u730	I would like you to live observed and observed by some positive things, and not by such legal proposals that are at stake in the independence of the National Bank, the collapse of institutions, not only of the National Bank, but also of the National Assembly in the way this law is adopted. So, I don't want to be offended personally. It was never my fault, and it's my advice to treat you in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u731	Representative Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised by some of the opposition's views, because if something has devastationed in the last few years, the National Assembly and the MPs have been devastated. You forget that we answer to the citizens of Serbia for what we do, not the governor. He's answering to us. The independence of the National Bank is not a constitutional category, independence yes, independence does not. The National Bank is subject to supervision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we want to do with this law. If that story about the Council and the Statute is so famous, I'd just like to remind you that this law was laid down by the National Bank in 2003, when my dear colleague was president of the Assembly. In that law, the basic law, which you voted for, was agreed upon by the National Assembly. By amending and supplementing the 2010 Law, you take away the right to the National Assembly. There is the continuity of our policy and the discontinuity of your policy. That's what this is about. So, if the MPs answer to the citizens, the right to responsibility also raises the right questions – what are certain state authorities doing? Nothing else. To be clear with this story, or simply some MPs do not want to exercise their constitutional right and obligation to do their job properly. I don't know how else to interpret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u733	Mrs. Gorica Gajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u734	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, this session today and the session's session, primarily on the agenda, after the government's election, means the first session to seriously discuss a law, namely the first item of the agenda – the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank, talks about the importance of the next institution after the Assembly, the establishment of assembly bodies, after the government's election, thus saying that the ruling majority knows what an important institution is and should be reorganised by them and regulated by the new draft law on the National Bank. Why is all this suggested to be an emergency procedure, we at the DSS don't know and we just wonder and I wonder as an MP, because it seems to me like some time ago, all of a sudden, and it's really important. That urgency ignores what's important, and then we're all surprised what we missed in urgency. A week ago, we spent all night arguing about the government. Now, as far as I can tell, we're not all here near the Assembly, so, as far as morning goes, we run and take this bill. We should have gotten it sooner, studied it, seen where the fundamental changes are, defended them here, and not rightly here, the position and opposition are breaking up -- whether this is more of a political problem or more of an economic problem. Starting with legislative regulations and what is in fact the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia, that it is primarily the achievement and maintenance of price stability, that it is the stability of the course and that it is the stability of the financial system of the state, we should just talk about it. But if by emergency procedure, we only talk about changes and changes in laws, and we don't look at how the National Bank has been doing so far, where there have been cardinal errors, whether these mistakes were due to the bad law of the so far on the National Bank or there was, let's say, some political influence, because I see that we all defend independence and the institutions of the National Bank. Of course, a lot of people here have been saying, stability prices, we all know what kind of situation we're in, about course and not talking. Everyone said how long our dinar course fell back a year, six months, or how many. The stability of the financial system is also an area that was under the control of the National Bank of Serbia. I'm sorry, but here in the Assembly, we don't have authorized people, first of all the governors to sit here, that before we search these proposals, before we submit amendments, to sit down and ask him as MPs, why some things happened, why some banks, and more of them are mentioned here, I especially want to look back at that part of the work of the National Bank, or the control of the National Bank, financial institutions or commercial banks, because, among other things, I work in one bank where the state is the majority owner. I don't want to either, because I know what it's like in the field, after all the time and all the trust that's lost in our banks and the banking system in general, to restore that citizens' trust again. People save their money, they want to make sure their deposits are safe. The businessmen also work, do business, and how they want to know how much the bank they're dealing with is safe. It must not happen to us that we, now both MPs and citizens, from newspapers, find out if some banks are, so the mention of Agrobank, the Business Bank of Belgrade, the Vojvodine Development Bank, among other things the Serbian Bank, is the bank where I work, I don't want that bank to lose credibility with its clients, if that's not true, if someone just took it accordingly to say that these are banks that are working suspiciously and badly today. Until a few months ago, executive board presidents of these banks were rewarded as top financial managers. This home here and citizens need to know exactly what the National Bank was doing, where the National Bank has failed, under whose jurisdiction this organisational part of the National Bank has been doing, if it has not done what it has to do. The democratic party of Serbia has no dilemma at all that the law needs to be changed, that something is not good and something that would give security to the overall development. Let's not forget, this law can't just be watched politically and only in the function of the governor's shift, will it go away one and the other come. This isn't just a political question. It is while we're talking about him here, but it's a lot more of an economic issue. It's one of the pillars of our future economic development. We all know, and we're talking about it all the time, a stable course of dinars, a stable macroeconomic situation, a advantage, a guarantee of some in the financial system, that in some ways we're opening the door to some new investors, and domestic and foreign, who would here and how to start our economy, which we know is where they are located. I see that there is an accent here, it is understood, and it is mainly debated – the supervision of the work of the National Bank and the introduction of a supervisory authority as a new institution or new body, call it whatever you will, whose jurisdiction and establishment of jurisdiction will be regulated by a statue. Of course, neither are we from the DSS, even more so, against those areas of amending the law. Why hasn't there been a conversation on the subject so far? Why is there no one to explain to us where it was scheduled, and why this way of talking about it, without reports from the governor, the council of governors, without a public debate and an expert, which would also explain to many MPs, hands to heart, many know what it is, many do not, and that public and professional debate would certainly explain to the citizens who are watching all this, as well as a story, a situation related to the work of the National Bank of Serbia so far. There are some illogicalities at the Surveillance Authority, but we'll see how that works. In any case, a new organ is established, a new institution, a new body, let's call whatever we want, which will have its director. How will the director of this body cooperate and how will the future governor of the National Bank, where they will be intertwined with competences and competences, how much the Assembly, in the way it will be able to control and influence both the work of the Supervisory Authority and the work of the entire National Bank, will likely only be discussed. It certainly remains the fact that this is the fourth or fifth governor to resign. Just as part of this discussion, we learned from the president of the assembly, though earlier, that Governor Soskic resigned. Is that some kind of pressure right now? Why wasn't it yesterday, why it didn't wait for this law to be passed, the question remains, and simply that urgency, which I would say is the way of working, putting some draft laws to the vote, I'm afraid it doesn't look like, or I'd like something to be changed, that is. So that there may be some changes, and let it go from here from the congregation, let it go from the way we suggest. Let it not be an emergency, and it's very important. We have plenty of time, we don't have to spend nights, we can sit down every day and explain what we think should be brought out here, defend each and every MP's group for ourselves. I hope it can be accepted. The DSS will certainly always be with every constructive proposal and probably, if we estimate that today, when it comes to the National Bank Act, or amendments to the National Bank Act, they are good tomorrow for our construction and for our businessmen, we will not look much at how some MPs are very concerned about how the EU will react. It's much more important to us that all of these changes that we're voting for today, I believe most of us, the DSS will see if they vote, in any case we won't support this law now, we'll see how positive it will affect our tomorrow. So let's not make everything urgent, and it's actually very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u735	Thank you. The next word is National MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the governor has pleased us with his resignation. I hope the other authorities do their job. It is almost incomprehensible that, in the reasons for its resignation, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank Act has been proposed. The law has not yet been passed, so I don't see any important reason, so he could still be corrected by amendments, if he thinks that the proposed law was working. At least he had enough of those who stood up for him here. You have to say two words about the People's Bank itself. It was created on July 2nd, 1884, and it was called a privileged bank for me, the dear Kingdom of Serbia. After that, she changed five, six times her name. It is currently officially called the National Bank of Serbia, but could freely call it a bank that serves privileged import lobbys, various teams, financial groups, consulting houses, etc. At least she's serving the people right now. The National Bank is independent, but my dear colleagues that independent interpretation is a little different than I am. The bank should be independent of politics, from a group of speculators, from those who manipulate the course in order to make the import lobby richer, and at least what should be independent, it is from the National Assembly and therefore from the people. She should never be independent, she should be using that people. What's she supposed to do? It should run monetary policy, policy of course, safeguard foreign reserves, broadcast money, care for the functioning of the payment system and control other financial institutions. The NBS aims to achieve price and financial stability. It looks very simple. Now let's see those who were hearty defending him, that he was doing it, to see if he really did it. Monetary policy had to be closely linked to macroeconomic policy. That's what the famous governor knew, and this one's not even up to his shoelaces, the governor's name was George Wyfert. Unlike our governors, he first had it and became governor, unlike our governors and finance ministers and privatisation ministers, for example. He first had, so he became an official, became governor of the National Bank. These there, the former regime, they first became governors, and then they had. Should I prove it to Jelasic's villa, should I prove it on the 12m-euro aunt's couch? I don't think there's any need for you and how well you know. As for the stability of the course, it is closely linked to the previous one. Just laugh, Mr. Petrovic, who laughs last, laughs the cutest. (President: Mr Risticevic, I apologize for interrupting you, I ask the MPs to allow Mr Risticevic to end his discussion uninterruptedly, and please, on the other hand, not to mention other MPs by name. Thank you. I think the stability of the course is closely linked to what I said before, so I'm going to tell you again about George Wyfert, whom your governors didn't look a bit like, at least not in the way of business. So in 1923, which is well remembered by your head of the parliamentary group, prices in Serbia were wild. Then the governor of the National Bank decided to let the money into the economy and trade. In two years, listen carefully, I'm telling the truth unlike you, many of you, I apologize... (President: Mr. Risticevic, I only ask that in his presentation... )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry. I'm telling the truth as opposed to a lot of them. Is that all right? (President: Mr. Risticevic, I only ask you to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. We are closely following your statements, but I ask you to refrain from all expressions that some MPs might interpret as offensive, which are offensive to some. Thank you. ) Who is recognized, he is offended. I already apologized. Unlike the former regime, the money released in the economy and the money released in trade strengthened the Serbian currency, that within two years it was stronger than the Swiss franc by 45%, compared to the dollar and the pound by 60%, and then the governor and then the finance minister were smart enough to stop that dinar growth from damaging Serbia's exports. Today the NBS and its governor who now resigned, who continues to perform that function, are nothing like once a host, Governor George Weifert, who I already said he had first, and became a functioner, not a functioner, and then had. Let's see about the foreign reserve. The head of a parliamentary group said we shouldn't gamble on foreign exchange reserves. They've already been gambled. From 2000 to today, more than 50m euros of foreign exchange funds have passed through the National Bank, since the sale of capital, only three billion have arrived from the IMF in the last year and all this has been spent on maintaining the course. This course has been manipulated mainly to enrich the import lobby and does not serve the country's price stability and financial stability. The foreign exchange reserves are reportedly 10 billion, but when we subtract the foreign exchange savings, they're one to go over five billion. So, there are so many foreign exchange reserves in this country right now, and it's an obligation over the next three years to remind those who find it funny, the commitments they've left us, to be paid off from these foreign reserves, are in the next three years 11 billion. If we take even more that the external debt of the country is 25 billion and that the internal debt, the debt of the citizens to the banks, our banks with foreign names, is 20 billion, which must also be charged through foreign exchange reserves and outwards, then you need to understand that you have not left any foreign reserves. You've only left the big minuses. As for bank control, there's only a story with a sad ending. In the last year, due to the poor control of the NBS in Agrobanka and Vojvodina Development Bank, around 300m euros have been allocated from the budget to resuscitate banks that gave loans to rich, banks that apparently stole and robbed. There's been a loss from the budget that fills the poor, the paradise. In the first quarter of this year, unlike those 300 million, for social funds and for the poor barely one-sixth, 50m euros were allocated. It is important to note that, in Agrobanka, a representative of the state capital that collapsed was the consulting house of Ces Makon, I think it's called Ces Makon. I think you know her well. In it, the consultant, and perhaps the director, was the current finance minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. Former Minister, I apologize if he's considered offended. Also in the consulting house is former former Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic. Also in the consulting house is Dusan Nikezic, the state secretary of state not long ago of the former minister. This team has also managed the Ministry of Finance and the NBS since 2007, and left us with all those holes and all those debts I've already mentioned. In that period, since 2007, everyone has mentioned 2008 from 74 dinars jumped to 120. Salaries fell from 430 euros to 330 euros, 25% fell in real terms and pensions. Because of the lack of co-operation between monetary and macroeconomic policies, the economy is almost gone. The only thing they did was make import lobbies and treat them like a squeamish course. It sucked the financial capital of our man, every man, every old man, every woman, every child, every future child. The generations will be left with debts that must be paid, as newspapers write, up to 12 knees. With the poor girl's money, you covered the losses of rich bombers. That's why there was a strike in America on Wall Street. I don't think it's necessary for the special prosecutor to finally understand what organized crime is and to deal with this topic a little bit, especially Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank, which was at one point even suspicious of money laundering and which was a handful of pigs in the DS campaign. If we had pulled a few million euros from the National Bank, we'd have put it into the bay systems, just laugh, the foreign reserves wouldn't be five billion now, but 20 billion, and we'd have a agricultural processing industry. If we had invested that, we wouldn't have had these results from the drought, Mr. Minister. If your governors had invested that money, if your finance ministers had allowed it and four of your agriculture ministers did it, they wouldn't have this today, and this is a watering system in Serbia DS. I can give it to you, freely, to water tomatoes when you get home. Gentlemen of the former ministers, you are very poor, except for the money, you have nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u737	Replica, Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u738	Mr. Risticevic has a habit of posituring with me, I don't know exactly what the reason is, but it doesn't matter that much. I think this is a good time to simply comment on something Mr. Risticevic said and some other MPs say. It's about the former regime. So in this government of the Republic of Serbia, more than half of the ministers were from parties that were in the government where the DS was. This regime is everything now, but it's nothing different than it was before, as far as some of the substance stuff is concerned. Among other things, you finally raised the issue of irrigation. I can tell Mr. Risticevic that the issue of irrigation has just been raised since I became a member of the government and I think the current minister will have a great opportunity to meet projects for two hundred thousand hectares of irrigated land. I don't understand. Mr. Risticevic showed a bucket here and probably wanted to make a joke, but he couldn't do it. He could ask his coalition partner, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, why at a time when he was the finance minister and when Mrs. Dulic was the minister of agriculture, the country had over two billion euros in cash when she sold the "Mobtel"? I don't know if that's legal or not from the point of view of the current government, we'll see what time will show. So over two billion euros were available to Mr Dinkic and Mrs Dulic, so they did not invest a single dinar in irrigation. Mr. President of the Assembly, I would like to invite Mr. Risticevic to address Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, so he can ask him why there has been no irrigation in Serbia so far and why haven't we made a big profit, instead of having great damage to this drought?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u739	Replica, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u740	I thank the chairman and Mr Petrovic for having the right to the replica. So, Mr. Petrovic, in executive power I've never been with Dinkic, you've been more than once, as I recall. You were a minister, if necessary. You could have been a minister of justice, and in the next term, you could have been a very urgent minister of agriculture and trade. You have made it clear that your farm portfolio is not for the development of agriculture, but above all for the commercial interests of some of your friends, under the assumption that you do not find yourself offended. During your term of office, you called for the resuscitation of livestock, and I believe that about 200 to 250 thousand cows were slaughtered. I don't know if there's 250 to 300 grand left. So these are the results of your authority. When you were in the coalition with Mr. Dinkic in executive power, and I was never, unlike you, there was much you could do. You promised the people, not me, that they would eat with golden spoons, and you brought them to empty saucers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u741	Thank you. Mr. Petrovic, I will give you, of course, a replica, but I ask all the MPs to return to the topic. The subject is the Law on Amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, so I ask you not to enter other topics that reverse the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u742	Mr. President, I really don't understand what Mr. Risticevic is talking about. Please take the dignity of the assembly for protection. As far as I'm concerned, I have no problem defending my dignity. I call on Mr. Risticevic to look at spending from the agricultural budget and at all the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture, so I would like to see what my friend got and one dinar from that budget, what was done illegally. Mr. Risticevic has a chance to do so and I will be happy to wait for him to do it all. Mr Risticevic, as well as all other MPs who voted, remind me that he voted for the government of the Republic of Serbia. The least important thing is whether he was or not in some executive power with Mr Dinkic. All citizens who voted for Mr. Risticevic actually voted for Mr. Risticevic to vote for Mladjan Dinkic to be the finance and economy minister in this government of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind again, Mr Dinkic had over two billion euros at one time and the government he was in, so they did not invest a single dinar in irrigation. Unfortunately, we now have enormous damage. I will also remind you that Mr Dinkic also had Mrs Dulic as Minister of Agriculture and did not remember that they watered Serbia when they had the money. For all of that, Mr. Risticevic just voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u743	I just want to call you back on the topic of debate, and I think we should give a word to the next speaker, so I ask you to refrain from further replicas, because this is how we can go indefinitely, and that neither contributes to a quality debate nor contributes to the dignity of the Assembly. Please, Mr. Risticevic, let me try to use my authority with you, so that you give up the replica, that we can get back to the debate in the regular streams. (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: Just one sentence and I interrupt. But if you say one sentence, that one sentence will be sought by someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u744	I just want to say, while Mr Dinkic wanted to go with them into this government that was formed, while they thought they were going to form it, then he was good to them, then he was theirs, and now he's suddenly become mine, I don't know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u745	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u746	I thank you, Mr. President. We'll try to get back on the subject. Two days ago, we received a kind of political lecture from Mrs Tabakovic about the absence of independent institutions, but only independent institutions exist. In order not only to be a termological debate, he took care of this very bill, which is in fact the first step of the regime in subduing independent institutions, through bringing party personalities to its forehead. Even if everything is accepted by the regime for us, I can say that DS and its coalition partners have never tried anything like this, let alone thought. However, it is, of course, the face and reflection of a new majority created in our society and of a new relationship to severe torment built institutions, along with all child diseases that we have not yet overcome. I think it is totally unacceptable from the point of view of the MP and the DS member, if you want the citizen of this country, that such a law is passed without any public debate, that it is passed without any statement of the institution that is concerned and that, of course, all of this seems to be to divide party prey to the end, with one institution, I repeat, in which so far there has been no such thing. This is the first time we have a vice president of an influential, most significant, strongest party of the current regime as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It has been said many times today, repeatedly confirmed today, and as the ultimate evidence of all this, I must express my great regret that Mrs Tabakovic, as an unquestionably economic and financial expert in front of the SNS, is not here today with us. I guess she's uncomfortable talking about herself. Because this law is about her and that we understand ourselves, in conversation with many citizens, representatives of international institutions, representatives of civil society, it is my duty here and as a MP that, first of all, citizens, not you, since you will fulfill your intention until the end, to warn me of what is being prepared today in this assembly, and then not all of us will be found in which direction changes in the system announced by the new regime will go. This is exactly the direction it's going to go. It is necessary to remove one person, which is today and done, I would say to one responsible, courageous act of the governor himself, in order to place the vice-president of a parliamentary party in this place, in order to make the maximum state, if you want to tattoo and subject an unbreakable type of control to an independent institution. Independent institutions exist and must exist, they are a pillar of the rule of law, which you, by this bill, unfortunately violate. Why hasn't the majority launched an initiative to replace the governor of the National Bank so that we can talk about it, but they have made a completely amazing legal precedent, that in Article 26 my colleagues have already spoken extensively, a real and clear legion specialis so far unseen, probably from the time of some of your role models in the past, to set a deadline until a man has to get out of that place. Tell me, in what bill is such a thing seen, in any country of the world other than the non-democratic systems? I'd understand that you've filed an initiative to shift governors, but to create a general legal act in which you deal with individual matters, you're making a general legal act on an individual situation, i.e. about a certain person, so we didn't do it, and you can say anything about us. There's a lot of mistakes in our past, too, but nobody's tried anything like this. Now, of course, when you talk to them, ladies and gentlemen, they say -- well it's not because of us, it's because of Dinkic, Dinkic says it's not because of us, it's because of Jorgenka Tabakovic. They're moving hot potatoes to each other. Who has come to this idea that right now, without a public debate in a party's legally unfounded way, this change is taking place. Of course the answer won't be, I have no doubt about it, but it's my duty, since I explained what you've done, because of the citizens, I have to explain the consequences. The consequences are that our trip to the EU will be difficult, that the European Commission will negatively declare this, that you gentlemen, here will be the minutes, soon to amend this law and I responsibly say and predict it, and you will see, dear citizens, that they will not deny me. They will change the law again under pressure from the international community, but will have its governor. And a wolf full of sheep on the count. Just what's not in that story about wolves and sheep, these are the clarifications regarding foreign exchange reserves. In that sense, I also have to point out one more thing to the citizens, which is dear, respected citizens, which we represent here, watch carefully who in the next period will repay loans, in which way, where funds will be placed, how transparent and how transparent this process will be, and when the representatives of the regime say, we will sell only part of the EPS, how much we as the National Assembly will see who, under what conditions, with which interest and how it is done. That's what we, as representatives of citizens, expect from you. You will be forgotten, but we, believe it, will remind you with pleasure and in the future. What is certain is that because of the division of prey, because of the party's appetites, we will have a new law, we will have a political, party governor, we will have political control, even through the National Assembly of an independent, I repeat independent institutions and one of the fluids of the development of our democracy and civil society will be seriously violated. I'm not speaking from the position of a financial expert, because I'm not, but I am speaking from the position of a man who deals with politics anyone is a lawyer, and as such I have a right, and you, Mr. Proposer, have been making it all the same and your MPs around our suspicions. Our suspicion is our political weapon and you can't take it from us and don't insult us with things that are moving in the direction that we can and can't say and what we can't doubt. It's the principle of democracy. We have the right to doubt, and you can reassure us, convince us that the suspicion is unfounded, I think it's the liquid we've all fought for together. On the other hand, if we are to observe this law strictly and technically, it has indeed one deep shortfall in Article 26, a difficult explanation of the shortcomings and I think that we, as members of the opposition, as people belonging to this country and its citizens must also consider collecting the signature of a third of the MPs for the assessment of constitutionality. But that's where you came up, so you put this in the emergency procedure. However, citizens need to know to what extent are you under the first act that you are bringing your hands to any constructive contribution to do this in a better way? To what extent were you prepared to provide one thing for whoever you wanted? I'm not getting into whether that person is good or not. I think one of your MPs made a mistake when, otherwise, in a very constructive way, he debated here and talked about us dealing with personal matters, we're not dealing with a personal solution. These are the dark principles of our democracy, our fragile democracy, and that's what it seems to me in addition to announcing that we're going to have an office for quick answers, in addition to announcements that we're going to have a law on public procurement. What did you do first? First you're uniting security services and changing the governor of the NBS, because these are the foundations of the new regime? Is that the way to the future? I'm not sorry that most of your MPs still don't understand, with honorary exceptions, that you gentlemen are the government, you are the regime, and don't keep talking to us like we're in power. You're fond of these compliments, because you're, too, deeply subconsciously aware that you're in a really unnatural situation, in an unborn coalition, in an unnatural regime that no one has voted for. I have to say this because for days we have suffered attempts, unfounded, unargued criminalization by a political party. I told your wd president, and I will repeat to you, with all due respect and all the respect of this world, gentlemen, use all the levers of the system's institution and free this country of those who have sinned against the law. I'm sure that's where we agree. But that's why you add inappropriate epithets and insinuations when you speak to the Democratic Party. These are serious things that the president of the assembly has to react to. You can't generalize that way. We would never try that and it is not correct and it is not in the tradition of the democracy of this people. If you have anything, go ahead. I told Mr. Wolf, the sword of justice in your hands, left and right, and you will help us. We'll get you out of here sooner, gentlemen, as the citizens now see it necessary. It's particularly interesting to me, I've been listening here, and I'm finishing this, really inappropriate speech by some of my colleagues that I'm not going to react to. I would ask the president of the National Assembly that we stick to the Rules of Procedure, that there is no direct address, especially in this way, that there is a minimum degree of respect and that especially people who talk about the former regime, and people are all regimes, people who voted for Djindjic's budget law, lecture us on this, we're the old regime. Those who have been in every regime. This really goes beyond the limits of not good taste, not decency, but the rules of this respected home. Thank you. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u747	First in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz answered. Before I give him my word, I would just like to inform you that a replica relating to the parliamentary group may be reported by the president of the parliamentary group, his deputy or an authorised promoter. You have the right to report for the replica if you are directly mentioned or if it is an incorrect part of your exposure. You can report from the Rules of Procedure, but you can't answer from a replica. Let me also tell you this, today, as you have seen, I have warned, and I will always do so, all the messengers who, in my opinion, speak in any offensive way about other messengers. I ask all MPs not to address others directly, but the qualification of the former regime is not in itself offensive, because the regime is merely a form of government. So the word is a foreign term that defines rule. The former regime is someone who has exercised power in the previous parliament. You said the regime several times in your presentation, addressing the current majority, so I think it's in some way just expression in a political sense, I don't find it offensive. The word is Mr. Shormaz, who reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u748	Mr. Chairman, quite certainly, but I will also explain Article 106 - speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under investigation, that is, paragraph 1, and Article 107 - paragraph 1 - speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker spoke for 12 minutes, I watched, and I followed how much he spoke about the agenda point, meaning two minutes not full, in one part when he mentioned Article 26, everything else was a lecture to the ruling majority, looking at the SNS MPs, what I can and what I can't do, what I need to say, what should not be said, who should be the new governor, who won't be the new governor, and if it isn't the agenda point. So that's what we've been hearing all along, and otherwise we've been listening to the story of an emergency procedure all day. This Rules of Procedure brought in the previous ruling majority and we told them when we said it wasn't going to be good when they were opposition. Fortunately, you run the congregation differently than before. Otherwise, what's going on today wouldn't happen, but you're leading as a real Democrats, in the spirit of how it's supposed to be run, and I want to commend that, but if we were listening to an emergency procedure, and in the previous term, we got a few hundred draft laws by emergency procedure, and it was all urgent, and now we're giving lectures about how there wasn't a public debate, like it was about the Law of Public Informing Public Discussion or hearing about how we never did something like this? Mr. Stefanovic was not an MP at the time, but I did, you, Mr. Stefanovic, not you personally, but the party you belong to, voted for the Governor of Bodrum and the court was on trial, and we are now being lectured about how we did something that is not in accordance with the procedure. Everything is in accordance with the procedure and everything is in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. The only thing you can do is criticise the bill, what you have the right to do, and make a statement about it when the day of the vote comes. This is what is normal and what should be expected of the work of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u749	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u750	Mr. President, thank you for giving me your word. I am advertising the violation of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure and regarding Article 106 because you should have warned the MP, Mr Stefanovic, that he is only talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u751	I must warn you that if one of the speakers has already warned of the violation of a certain member of the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible for another MP to warn of the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u752	Also Article 107. It is about the dignity of the National Assembly and the insult of us, the MPs of the people. Let me explain. Mr. Stefanovic, today on the agenda is not the choice of governor of the National Bank, and you have been very irresponsible, sorry, mentioned Mrs. Tabakovic that she will be governor of the National Bank, as if she had already been elected. In the future, please address Mrs Tabakovic with respect because she is a civilized lady, primarily a man, a person with great democratic and civilizational values, one of the best experts in economic issues. Therefore, you treat her with respect. Secondly, Mrs Kolundzija insulted us and called us back then at the beginning that we were demagoses, most of them, without talking about Mr. Ambassador Čotric to insult the MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. (President: Pay attention on time, please. ) Mrs. Kolundzhija, your government headed by the DS in 2008, when it came, planned to grow in gross social product 3.8%, and in 2012, we have 0%.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u753	Mr. Atlagic, please, when you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, don't extend the subject. By the way, you're out of time. You've been talking for two minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u754	Let me finish in one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u755	I'll allow it, but I'm asking you to finish that sentence and let that be the end of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u756	Gentlemen of the former regime, in the last four years, you have destroyed the state and the nation, led to the destruction of this country, and you accuse us of it. So we weren't in power, you were. These indicators we've given today... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u757	I must take your word, Mr. Atlagic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u758	I really wouldn't answer it, but it's because of you, Mr. President, since you seem to me, you may have misheard what I said. So I don't absolutely think that the former regime is an insult or anything. I wasn't talking at all about this type of qualification that VD President SNS has explained to us that it's a beautiful, normal word, one term that's in general use, and since I know you're always glad to hear Mr. Vukic's word, I agree with him alone. So you're the regime for us, gentlemen, and we're the former regime and I don't see that that's offensive. As for respecting Mrs Tabakovic, I may not have been heard by the honourable MP, but with great respect I have spoken of her since I repeat that it is very important that we listen to each other if we already respect certain things. I absolutely stuck to the agenda. I did comment on the bill, but I also commented on the motivation of the legislator and the one who brings certain changes to our legal system. In that sense, it has something to do with the agenda. I don't think there's room for this guy's criticism. We have not offended anyone, nor do we intend to do so. I don't think I'm talking about personal solutions, but this is, in any case, one really effective and good way to get rid of people close to President Nikolic besides the party takeover of independent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u759	Thank you. Mrs. Kolundjia, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u760	Your Honor, Mr. President, except I don't think your colleague had the right to, referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, speak of what he was talking about, I want to say that I don't consider it an insult to the fact that when you tell someone, you can, on nice impossible promises, at an argument that doesn't stand, come to power, but you can't survive in power. There's one expression for that, and that's why I used it. So I could say it with more words, but the fact that as many promises as the government, as many amazing, sweet-talking images of the future, as many explanations for this law now can lead to this law being passed, but it cannot lead to you being saved from the consequences of adopting such a law. One more thing, I remind colleagues who are constantly saying that the former regime is guilty of everything and everything, to remind themselves that half of the former regime is sitting in the current regime, and more than half of the former regime, to remind themselves that the objections they make to, as they say, the former regime is more about ministers in the current regime and to bear in mind that they are not insulting their coalition partners with whom they are now in power. As far as DS is concerned, we'll have an argument to prove that we're not responsible for what they're accusing us of, but at the same time I really think they have to take care that they're now with the former regime in the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u761	Mr. Arsic, the speaker has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the headquarters of the former regime was DS. Let's get this straight. I listened very carefully to some of your discussions, so I'm surprised that a lawyer, whom I respect as a lawyer, is talking about the independence of the National Bank. It's not a constitutional category. Independence, it's not. Autonomousness, yes. The National Bank of Serbia, the Central Bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly to which it corresponds, Article 95. The Constitution. I read the Constitution, the highest legal act. That, I hope, has been cleared up. Let's clear up and break our suspicions at foreign reserve, because it seems to me that he's trying to create one panic and fear with the citizens that now that he's elected a new governor, we're going to spend foreign currency reserves on a Buddha why, in a few months' time. I can only remind myself that in the period from 2010, not counting in 2008, it means only in 2010 and 2012, the NBS spent over three billion euros in foreign exchange reserves and did not achieve its goal. When it comes to the famous loans spoken of, it is expected that, due to the growth of the deficit caused by the exchange rate differences between the euro and the dinar, Serbia loses part of the credit rating, but you cannot blame the current regime for this. I warned when the budget was voted, when there was a debate on the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and warned the then prime minister and finance minister that such projections of the budget and the revenue side were inconclusive. Now we're getting into a situation where, in addition to the enigmatic smile of the then Prime Minister, it's a bit of a snide, like -- dear fellow you don't know anything, that I was right. Every discussion, when it came to the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, I ended up with words – and who will repay and pay these loans? That's the problem. You have avoided a shift from power in a certain way that what you have done to irresponsible politics, to bear the consequences, a little greater than just one election result. No one's threatening you. Don't experience it like that. Don't experience and claim that we're changing people and all the republican officials who did their job right. After this part of the agenda, we have a point where we should choose the Protector of Citizens. It was elected in 2007, when none of these MPs who are now here, from the SNS parliamentary group, supported the government. Don't talk about it. Those people who did their job responsibly, they should keep doing it. If we don't have a better one, even if we have one, we won't be changing the one we're having right now. The only condition for a shift is either not to do their job properly, or to have better solutions for those places.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u763	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u764	The NBS Act, which does not change the new regime in that part, says in Article 2. – NBS is independent and independent in performing functions established by this and other law. In your explanation, Mr. Proposer, it is written in the reasons for the adoption of the law – by this law, not touching the independence and independence of the Central Bank, etc. So I don't know why, I repeat, we're not listening enough? What is important for me to answer is, who will repay these loans and pay? Those loans will be returned and paid by whoever took them and whose policy is absolutely continued in this government. It's Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Don't, please, talk about us being in charge. In the campaign, you said we were in charge, that this country was over-indebted because DS, as you say, was in charge of the regime. Mr. Arsic, unfortunately, you are not the headquarters of this regime. Unfortunately for you. I know that's not easy for you. Your regime's headquarters are SPS and G17. It's not easy for the SNS, most of all. I would never answer this if you weren't unnecessary, past the subject, in the first sentence we were talking about what DS is. Believe me, I absolutely don't want to talk about it, I want to talk about it. Your regime announces astronomical borrowings. That's what you know, if we watch the same media and TV we watch. Maybe you're watching that TV for your members. There is no such thing, it says -- the IMF has promised Serbia $400m or euros, and it is not said either, under any conditions and that it is a thick piece. So don't do maximum borrowing, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u765	Time. I give the word to Parliamentarian Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u766	Please, if I can get information how much DS is left? (President: 24 minutes.) Thank you. The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Powerful Representative of the Proposer mentioned the dignity of the National Assembly and the degradation of the National Assembly at one point. I cannot help but look back at the beginning of the work of this National Assembly and from the fact that it was chaired by the oldest MP, as it belongs to the Constitution, that this man, after coming down from where you are now sitting, has moved to another parliamentary group and since that day, in this National Assembly, has somehow opened up a stock exchange over the MPs. What I want to say when it comes to this law, that as a professor of law at the university, studying law and parallel practice, I have met with the experience that the laws were named after their proposings. So far, I have not met in practice that one law is made for one man and is already in practice named after that man, or woman, even if it is the most beautiful spring flowers in Serbia named women's children. The fact is that this law, and it is indisputable, has a degradation for its foundation, the collapse of independent institutions, one of the most important, and this is the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. On the same principle, they will all - the message is the SPS, the G17, or the Region, the SNS, all those who do not obey will pass. It is still a hot resignation of the governor of the National Bank, if they do not behave according to the wishes and will of the ruling coalition, so will the Citizens' Protector, so will those who run the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. What's important is the fact that this law is primarily anti-constitutional. Article 95. The constitution, partly quoted by the proposing representative, says -- the National Bank of Serbia, the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and subject to supervision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who's she okay with? So, surveillance, and she's on her own. The power to conduct monetary policy has exclusively the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Article 107 has been injured. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as one of the possible authorised proposings, has not even been submitted by the draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, which in this case was the governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Article 112 is also injured. The constitution, because among the authorised representatives, i.e. the powers of the president of the Republic of Serbia, is not to be considered, therefore, anywhere among the powers of the President of the Republic of Serbia there is no saying that the President's authority is to believe. He said yesterday that he believes the existing governor should resign, i.e. it can be interpreted from his statement. So he overstepped his powers. In the same way, the executive power, the government, through Mr Dinkic, these days exerts direct repression, direct pressure on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, or on the governor to resign, as he did. Leaving enough time for my colleagues, I will tell the citizens of Serbia what they should expect from this law. They should expect, above all, that already in the coming period, the state of Serbia loses the credit rating it now has, that the International Monetary Fund and the European Union stop co-operation with the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. with the state of Serbia, break the credit lines. This will lead to monetary instability. There'll be inflation soon. Inflation will mean that their loans that they now have are going to go up dizzy, soon they're going to be devalued, they're going to be rising prices soon, they're going to be running out of stuff in the shelves, there's going to be black market foreign exchanges, which we've had a chance to see. I'm not talking about futur, we've already had a chance to see this from the same creators, who are now creating this law. Investors will run off with their heads regardless of Serbia. For this reason, I call on the MPs, who are now in the ruling coalition, to think carefully about when they give their vote for this disastrous law, disastrous for the citizens of Serbia, is already the question of how much the euro will be compared to the dinar tomorrow, and what the prices will be, that they do not vote for this law and that in some way they preserve their face, but also the future of children who are to suffer the consequences of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u767	Thank you. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask some of my colleagues to stop scaring the citizens of Serbia. Come on while you've been campaigning, the campaign is also political. It was said that if Boris Tadic was not the president of the Republic, the state would collapse. We're going to war. Right now in the United Nations they talk if Tomislav Nikolic wins, it means war. Don't say that. Neither Boris Tadic, nor the Democratic Party, nor Tomislav Nikolic, nor the Serbian Progressive Party are the state. There will be, there has been before us, there will be after us. When it comes to this part of the People's Bank, I couldn't help but review a little more of the law in certain provisions and resignations of the governor. Here you can take to read any position of his resignation. Here, I'll deal with attitude four. "With my resignation, I want to prevent the political extortion of changes at the top of an independent institution, such as the National Bank of Serbia, from being the only reason for the bad law, with possible serious consequences for the financial stability and credibility of the state. I hope that my resignation will allow lawmakers to take a closer look at and analyse its consequences, and to bring it into line with the principles of central banks' independence, as are applicable in countries with a regulated financial system. "When it comes to that part of the regulated financial system, we read a little in parallel, but when you look at Article 29. The law says -- a functioner of the National Bank of Serbia cannot be employed in a bank or another legal person, controlled by the National Bank of Serbia, or co-operated in the performance of its functions, six months after the end of office. In the case of the expiry of the term of office, the Governor and the Vice-Government shall be entitled to compensation, the termination of office for the purpose of resigning or discharging functions for the reasons laid down in Article 28(1) of point 3 of the Law on the National Bank. Gentlemen, if such a law had been passed, the amendment and addition of the law would not have applied to the outgoing governor. This is how the outgoing governor got himself a six-month salary. There was one discussion - does the National Bank belong to citizens, or businesses, and whose interests the National Bank will defend, will the citizens, do they do business? It came to the conclusion that the only thing the National Bank defended was the governor's salary. Now with this resignation, the governor once again defended his salary, six months at 6,000 euros, so calculate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u769	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u770	Mladjan Dinkic, the URS, was mentioned several times by DS MPs. I want to remind them of a few things they're trying to do or forget, or put aside. Mladjan Dinkic has been Serbia's most successful governor since 2000, so here, he stabilised the dinar, secured the stability of the financial system and the banking system, ensuring the return of the old foreign currency savings. You remember that well, and I'll remind you, and the way you replaced him in this assembly, by voting with the MPs who voted from Bodrum, I didn't want to say it, but I still have to remind you of that. It is mentioned here, it is true, Mr Petrovic, that Mladjan Dinkic, as finance minister, left two billion euros in the budget in 2006. He left it to you, which has been run by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture since 2006. Three agriculture ministers from your party had enough time and resources to start building a irrigation system and do what was not done in agriculture. That is why you have the least moral right above all to comment on this law and way, because I remind you how Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was replaced, and later Mr. and Mr. Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u771	Mr. Petrovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u772	Chairman, I don't know why Mr. Ilic is talking to me. Neither did I vote here when Dinkic was replaced, nor did I have anything to do with it, and I'm not talking about irrigation because I'm done, but because I became a minister of agriculture in March last year. From March of last year to today, we launched a serious action that will lead to all the channels in Serbia that exist by September, and the Minister of Agriculture and the current government, by the end of September of the month, and perhaps before the completed projects for 200,000 hectares of land under irrigation. I did not abolize the DS Agriculture Minister who was before me, and I think it is not good that they were not also engaged in irrigation, but Mrs. Dulic was the minister for three years, Mr. Zivkov, who was her closest associate, I think in the role of the State Secretary, in fact, the head of the Ministry of Agriculture. All this time, serious big money was available. I will also remind fellow MPs and Mr Ilic, it takes a little bit less than a billion and a half euros to complete the primary irrigation channel network, millions and 100,000 hectares of land, and that is true, so I don't understand what Mr Ilic is transferring to me and why he talks to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u773	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the topic. Vladimir Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u774	I just wanted to remind you of the fact and we agreed that two billion euros were left in the 2006 budget at the Ministry of Finance to make your predecessors available at the Ministry of Agriculture and of course to you and unfortunately, as this usually happens about irrigation is said when drought, when we have a desperate drop in yield, especially when it comes to corn, when we're going to have trouble supplying the meat market, because it's going to collect cattle food, hence meat and it's going to be a direct attack on citizens. I remind you once again of the circumstances that occurred both in 2003 and 2010, relating to the governor's shift, you and anyone from the DS can't be apportioned for 2003, because you've just introduced the governor's shift model by the parliamentary majority, and you're the most responsible for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u775	Here you go, Mr. Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u776	Chairman, I want to comment on this old one. Last March, there was not a single cent of the two billion euros. I became a minister of agriculture on March 14th or 15th, and I started irrigation, I mean something about March 20th, a week after I became a minister of agriculture. So Mr. Ilic doesn't say things that are consistent with reality and reality. We've been farming for the past year. The drought took place, in July 2012, we are engaged in irrigation since the beginning of April or the end of March 2011. Mrs. Dulic, she was Minister for three years, Mr. Zivkov later served as acting in the Ministry of Agriculture. They all had very serious money, creators and overall economic policies at their disposal, and they didn't use that money when it was there. When there's no money, you can't spend it. We have proposed here five billion to be in charge of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to have it irrigated. The session could not be organised because G17 Plus MPs and the SPS did not want to participate in the assembly's work in January, because they said it was inappropriate, because the election campaign starts. These are facts, and now you can express different elements here, but unfortunately, the truth can never escape.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u777	Thank you. I ask the MPs to return to the subject, the bill of amendments and additions to the National Bank. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u778	Very briefly, I would not have reported it if the proposing representative hadn't mentioned the word "a threat" and "a fear of citizens". So, it's not about fearing citizens, this law is of such a nature that very clearly, in practice, will produce all the consequences I've been talking about. But let's leave it to some future time, very soon. The other thing I would like to comment on is the fact that he mentioned the governor's salary and that in some way the costs of the National Bank would be reduced. On the contrary, this law introduces another post of director of the Supervisory Authority, and in some ways implements the two-state government as it has already been formed through the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government's formal and informal president, as well as in the National Bank of Serbia, will have two functions of governors and directors who will certainly share views, i.e. to exercise the views of their political bosses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u779	The word is Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u780	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried very carefully to follow the discussion of all the MPs who spoke on the subject. Of course, it is common for the National Assembly, too often spoken, not about the restrictions that the Rules of Procedure imposes and concern that we talk about the subject, but too often spoken with incorrect data, not knowing both the Rules of Procedure and the Law, even the names of parliamentary groups and parties, all to naturally interpret the past politically. The purpose of the law is, of course, to intervene with the political will of the majority, which some legislative proposal proposes. Because of the problem that exists in reality, and that's what's been said, but not to break it, but to improve one system. A little bit, from these discussions, since, from time to time, MPs, and especially the heads of parliament groups and citizens, I think the citizens know that this film has already been seen many times. From some discussions, we could say what movie it is. It's that movie that says "Why do you say love and think about sex?" Therefore, the charges in the speaker were that some parts of the amendment and supplementation proposal did not really benefit the NBS and its independence guaranteed by Article 95. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, rather than that it is a matter of preparing different terrains, for various political solutions. It is possible, certainly, but first we have to find out the following – the National Bank of Serbia is an institution that is by different governors, laws and decisions made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one of the most orderly institutions, and it is very important that we take care of it whenever we make any kind of change, any member of the law, but also when we talk about the NBS and when we talk about governors. Of course, that urban legend that I'm the protector of all governors, I admit for the last 10 years I have. Until recently, the governor, until a few hours ago, Mr. Šoštic enjoys my personal affection, if for no other reason, because he understands perfectly the models of sunglasses, which we have discussed several times, but also because of his expertise. One thing is expertise. I sincerely hope that the members of the laws amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia are proposed for problems to be seen, because the measures available to the governor are limited, but in doing so, the measures at the disposal of the Governor, the Vice-Governors, the governor's advice, are such that by definition, they are opposition, which someone spoke at the beginning of the government's measures. The natural state is, therefore, in practice the governor sits in the cabinet's session to point out and has the right to participate and has no right to vote, to point out possible consequences in the field of monetary policy, what is proposed in fiscal policy. It's been noticed, and the citizens are of course the most sensitive, that in this sphere we now, without questioning anyone's guilt, have big problems. Several speakers pointed out only the problems that the uncertainty of the course produced, with businessmen, with citizens, with those in charge, with loans, cannot plan anything. It is certainly the only one who has the right to control, someone has unwarrantedly stated that the law could have been proposed by a minister or by a government, God forbid. Why do you think in the Constitution this is one of the two institutions that have the right to propose laws without being either an MP or a government or an AP Vojvodina Assembly? Just because it would be completely illogical for someone in opposition to propose amendments to the laws of one who should intervene with him in an area of intervention with measures. It is natural for MPs to be legislators. What's unnatural about these discussions is that we're really all a little bit unserious about the past. First we act like it's the first time. It is not, in this way, through the amendments of the law it is. Why? It's a literary value. When someone loves someone, he cares about them, you have this example, when more people want a child, then the judge says, "Okay, let's see who the child and the ladies are going to take him away from in a row, I don't want to say what the literary work is, it's not correct, it's not everyone's reading, and the judge, when the child cries, and one of the women lets him so that the child doesn't hurt, the judge gives her a child, because apparently she shows both responsibility and love. He doesn't want pain to happen. Now this is the first time, because as you know, the previous Governor Jelasic has resigned so that through some different measure it would happen that certainly, when there is political will, it tells us not our experience, but the experience of countries in the environment. Look at Croatia only a few months ago. It will often happen, for the sake of equating measures, that one political will in the changes it advocates and tries to achieve them, resorts to different ways of changing governors. Now we have the next situation. In accordance with the Constitution, these amendments to the law are proposed, absolutely certain. They sent the NBS and we got the NBS's opinion. It is strange that the opinion first speaks of the reasons for the emergency procedure, not of the members who are changing. It is strange that many who, contrary to the amendments to the law, and defending the governor, did so so softly, that I personally could not help but get the impression that there was an attitude behind it – we went, let the governor go. It is simply not correct according to the National Bank, nor according to this Assembly, nor that this will be a central institution and all the coming months. The measures of the National Bank, the moves that will be taken, is very important that we can discuss in the next period based on what we represent today. I respect all the MPs because they've been elected by the citizens, but I have to admit that I especially appreciate something, so I always pay attention to what Mr. Laszlo Varga says. He drew attention to a political aspect of the current different young reactions throughout a series of proposals that were heard in the public or in this assembly home, but he pointed out that some of them might be a cause, please, not a reason, that the subsequent conditions might also be established in another area. We've seen different political conditions. If Mr. Varga is right, the political logic is that when you have different conditions, you trade them. Is it possible that whenever you create a cause for another political condition, you simultaneously create the possibility that tomorrow, in order to overcome it, you have to accept some of the conditions that you thought you'd never accept before. Please let us think about this, because during just these few hours, other than these different discussions, there have been a few more facts. One of them is Mr. Shoskovic's resignation as governor of the NBS. I appeal that in the next period, starting from this well-intentioned assumption concerning all of us and once again, it is pointless in the political life of Serbia to speak when who, what voted in the previous period and whether it should be avolved or not. Mr. Bosko Nicic voted for Governor Dinkic's shift, right, Mr. Nicic? I apologize for speaking directly, this is not in any negative sense. I don't see why that would affect the policy Mr. Nicic represents. That applies to each of the people in the O.R. But from every vote, we need to get some experience out of it. One vote follows another. I'm going back to what the motion is. On each member, I am talking about members who are changing the NBS law, some members have been welcomed in discussions by representatives of different political groups, as a possibility for the perceived problems in performing NBS functions to be removed. But also vice versa, Article 28, if I followed the discussion well, there were clear remarks. It doesn't matter to me whether it was said by a representative of what you call a regime, a former regime, a position, an opposition, I've seen it, it's so irrelevant and variable, that I don't want to run it at all. Think about it, it is possible, not only that some amendments should be accepted, but that from some of the individual members of this proposal, I say once again, think about whether some of the individual members should be withdrawn, because they are given too many objections, and there is no reason why, if we care about the NBS really and if we respect that it has become such a serious institution that gives us all confidence or hope that it will guarantee the stability of what it is responsible for, that we do not throw any shadow at it. Maybe in six months, we'll press a lot of bigger problems, discuss it, maybe accuse someone, and if we could already eliminate it. That's the first request. The second request is, if we're already talking about people so easily, mentioning their names, and saying that those names have something to do with plants, the minimum correctness is that we know, if not people, then at least when which plant is really blooming, what happens to spring, and what happens to autumn. Thank you all for understanding, and I ask you to accept this attitude as personal and as a request that in the coming period, 24 hours before the debate on amendments begins, we simply approach all of this matter as citizens expect us to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u781	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u782	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will once again mention the way this law came into the process, I simply think that it should be said, for the reason that in the previous period, in the opposition's previous term, and the current SNS position, honouring the ruling coalition that all important laws are passed by emergency procedure, and there is not enough time to discuss them, to make objections, to react in some way. Now we see this same situation in amendments to the NBS Act. It is clear that in less than 24 hours neither a valid analysis of what was done in the NBS can be done, nor the NBS can handle it. It's really pointless to ask the NBS to do it within that time limit. This law is essentially passed to appoint a new governor. This amendment to the law means the collapse of the independence of the NBS, the destruction of its independence, and that is contrary to all international standards. We've heard discussions here that it's not like nothing in European procedures is mentioned, nothing is broken. It's just that it's not true. If in some way we are trying to change the procedure for the election of governors and we do not respect the one we adopted and guaranteeing the independence of the work of the NBS, then we have therefore put Serbia's European path and the implementation of international and European standards when it comes to strengthening independent institutions in Serbia. This is a political decision, a decision by the ruling majority, of the coalition agreement, where a party chamber is to be led by the NBS. This is clearly seen in Article 20, which changes and this key amendment of Article 20, which tells us clearly that a party official will come, reads like this – so far it has been legal for the governor to be unable to function as a political party, and now it is changing and said – the governor cannot actively perform a function in the political party. We have almost had the situation that the current President of the Republic resigned, because he will not be president and political parties, and it is clear that he has also been involved in the shift of the current governor and these amendments to the NBS Act that are not in the interest of Serbian citizens. They are not in Serbia's citizens' interest because the citizens of Serbia, and I am afraid as a citizen of Serbia, that foreign reserves will be spent, because a fellow from the ruling majority said on the Finance Committee that the money should be used for the economy as well. I think that we have had bad experiences in the past and that this should not be played and fear should not be further spread among the citizens of Serbia. What he also mentioned in previous discussions is that the previous regime, which the DS headquarters had been in, also made decisions in this way, was reportedly the parliamentary majority. The parliamentary majority can always pass any act, it is not disputed, but procedures must be followed. As far as headquarters is concerned, it's now also the headquarters of the former regime. The Socialist Party of Serbia is the headquarters of the government. It includes SNS and G17 plus, so you can't just talk about DS as a party to the former regime. Some of the parties that are now in the government with you are also more responsible than DS, for example G17 plus, who was responsible for spending funds in the previous period and led the Ministry of Economy and Economy, which was in charge of this portfolio, which was indeed not satisfied in some way, and the citizens are very dissatisfied with it. Dejan Soskic resigned. Dejan Šoštic sent a warning, and he wrote it to you in resignations, that you simply have time to change your mind, not to vote on these amendments and amendments to the law, not to bring down the independence of the NBS. You can choose another governor, but you don't have to destroy the system. It's a message from Dejan Šoškovic. What Serbian citizens expect from you, they expect what you promised in the election campaign, they expect a better life, and by appointing a party staff as governor of the NBS citizens will not live better. When the honeymoon passes in a few weeks or months, then the problems will come, then the public will expect with the right to see how you fulfilled those promises you made. Think of that time, leave the DS, we are now the opposition and we will criticise any such law of the law, and there were, even though you have adopted only three laws so far, there have been so far. You're going on with it. I hope this is the last law to be passed this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u783	The word is Mr. Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u784	Mr Jovanovic, you and your colleagues are constantly changing the thesis, insisting on showing this parliament that Mladjan Dinkic is on duty. I remind you once again, for the last six years, you have been responsible for the finances of this country. Six years in a row, you have a finance minister. Of the two billion euros in surpluses, you owe the country, spent the two billion and owed another five billion. It is now necessary to provide three and a half billion euros by the end of the year to maintain stability in the country, in order to pay salaries and pensions. Don't deceive citizens anymore by making Mladjan Dinkic your responsibility. On the contrary, he left, when he left the finance ministry, two billion euros. I'll remind you one more time, you've been in charge, you've been responsible for spending and getting money for the last six years, and don't deceive anyone. I repeat, Mladjan Dinkic has not been the finance minister since 2006. In 2006, too, I was head of the tax administration, the first and only time in Serbia's history, in the entire history of Serbia, a surplus was recorded in the budget and in 2006. Then we were in the government with the DSS. So, the government was remembered for registering the only surplus in Serbia's history. Don't talk any more about Mladjan Dinkic blaming you for everything. You're in charge of the land. Because of you, this government now has and will have headaches for a few years. I hope we get past them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u785	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u786	Mr. Ilic, again, we are listening to excuses for the imminent failure followed by these governments, these ruling coalitions and the finance and economy minister. Mr Dinkic was Minister of Economy in the previous period. The economy ministry was tasked with spending funds collected by the finance ministry through tax and customs collection. And you know it well. The finance ministry is not a consumer, the finance ministry is raising money in the budget, spent by the Ministry of Economy and Economy. As for surpluses in the budget, there is no economy in the world, or state in which there is surplus in the budget, and that it is poor as Serbia. We were supposed to spend that money on economic and development projects, and we spent it on political projects that had all the ruling coalitions so far been evaluated. Most of your party. For example, a National Investment Plan no Serbian citizen has benefited from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u787	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u788	You obviously don't understand public finances and I have to say you don't understand what this is about. You mention the Ministry of Finance was collecting money, and the Ministry of Business was spending that money. You need to know one simple fact, all subsidies and what was spent by the Ministry of Economy on bringing foreign investors are not comparable to smaller amounts than subsidies for urban and traffic in Belgrade, which are subsidized with huge sums of 100m euros. The economy ministry is just one dozen ministries in the government and the ministry's budget was minor compared to the entire budget. Don't replace the thesis, you're the most responsible, DS, because of the problems we're in today, because of the hole in the budget, because of the five billion new borrowings that happened behind what we now have to, in order to survive by the end of the year, to be in debt, but fortunately, we'll provide funds far more favourable than you've provided with the leading finance ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u789	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u790	Mr. Ilich, if there's 40 billion in the Ministry of Economy that's spent a little bit, then I really don't know what we're talking about tonight. As to how the funds were spent, they were spent in line with the budget you voted for, both the SPS and the DS. The Ministry of Finance could not in an explicit way spend these funds, and that is a completely one replacement thesis and a complete ignorance of what was in the previous period. As for the privatisation money, it was the most and most privatization was done while you were in the government and running the Ministry of Finance, at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I will remind you that of the 24 privatisations the European Commission has made its remarks on, 23 were done at the time. So, 23 privatisations at a time when you've been leading the main word, and for that, I hope you're responsible, and I hope you agree with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u791	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u792	I would ask the MPs to read the laws more carefully. It's not what it says, a review of the provisions that change, but this first page. Article 20(1) of the proposal reads - the governor cannot be an MP in the National Assembly, a member of the Government or bodies or bodies educated by the National Assembly or by the Government. It may not act as an authority or member of an AP or a unit of local self-government, or a union organisation, or act as a political party or perform any other public function or public work. It can't be active. Read the bill nicely. That's what it says here. This copy that I have opened from the congregation service, do not deceive the public anymore. The easiest way to get up and tell a story is to listen carefully to everything you say, in return you don't listen to us. That's what this is about. Any argument that we've given, you've, you've made no conflicting argument, but expressed doubt. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it doesn't matter what anyone thinks, what anyone says, what they do. This National Bank, in this system, in which it is now, has spent more than three billion euros in foreign exchange reserves over the last two years and has not defended the rate of dinars. Shall we run an analysis of which of these benefits? The financial organizations the National Bank was supposed to control. Are we going to look at the liquidity of the banking sector, why the National Bank took off its daily liquidity site of the banking sector, how much total banks have effective. In this respect, the account and the funds deposited as funds shall be as much as they have on their current accounts, accounting for both depositor funds and how much paper they have on the values issued by the State. It's gone. If there were, they would see exactly, if the liquidity of the banking sector had decreased by as much money as the National Bank had issued foreign exchange reserves. Obviously, under some broad interpretation, the rules that the EU makes, but extremely broad, so wide that it does not apply them either, operate our financial sector. That's what the National Bank looks forward to. One of the basic rules of capitalism is the way of supply and demand. One of my fellow MPs told me that money was a slave, I agree completely. The stuff that has its price. Now ask the question – does our financial sector artificially maintain a high capital price in Serbia and generate extra profits? The National Bank is looking kindly at that again. We have high interest on citizens and on the economy. If these interest rates return to the bank and it returns them to the capital market, the capital price is reduced. If the funds are converted into euro that evaporates from the country, a high price of capital in Serbia is artificially maintained. That's the primary consequence. The secondary consequence is the extra profit that banks make on exchange rate differences with loans that have a foreign exchange clause. Again, the National Bank looks kindly. That's why we asked for changes and additions to the law. Article 2 shows that the National Bank is obliged to control the payment turnover of banks to abroad. It is not a solution to apply to us what is no longer applied in the world, especially in times of the global economic crisis and financial crisis in the EU. The whole EU today has been devoured by state interventionism. Whatever financial part you look at, interventionism everywhere. I fully agree that the National Bank should neither buy on the primary nor on the secondary market of government securities of value, securities of values issued by units of local self-government and AP. That is why an amendment has been tabled which deletes that part from this bill. See how the EU protects its stability, which is the biggest buyer of state charters from the value of Italy, Spain, Ireland and Portugal – the European Central Bank. So no one can object to Serbia or the National Bank if the situation in the financial sector puts the situation in order and adapts to the situation in which the state is located, rather than easily, selling foreign reserves. We feed the financial sector with that money. We're creating a certain way of "perpetum mobile". They will always maintain the same high capital price in Serbia. Let's talk about how this affects the economy, the population and the economy, and the state with a high price of capital and citizens who were eager to live and who were recklessly in debt, counting on their ability to pay off loans, and then because of the jump in the euro, they can't do it. We've come to a situation where our citizens live to repay the war of credit. As a consequence, we had a debt to the economy because it had a decrease in the size of business. When the economy couldn't take so much debt anymore, the state started borrowing, and then so round, credit after credit. Whose responsibility is that? Who let that happen? How do foreign reserves from Serbia, the foreign reserve that this country has gained with severe torment, and where are they held? Are these the same banks he's laying funds to as a mandatory foreign exchange reserve, where we return their subsidiary to a foreign deposit? There are a lot of questions about the work of the National Bank. What is most surprising is the anemicity and the government of the Republic of Serbia that at such a time as Serbia has managed, it changes the Foreign Affairs Act, that everything the National Bank has failed to do, in a certain way, is amnesty. Do you know that today any economic operator, including the bank, can buy foreign exchanges from a business bank on the basis of some transaction, to pay its supplier, and often it's a connected person, means the same founder, and never to import goods into Serbia and never to return money? Your government passed that law. Or, if it brings something out of Serbia, it never has to make the funds out of that export, and even through compensation, come back to Serbia. We are harmonising our legislation with the legislation of the World Trade Organisation, I agree, if we enter it tomorrow, but we are far from it for at least 15 years, and our people are poor, the economy is destroyed. This calls for greater control of the National Bank towards financial organisations and greater supervision of the National Assembly towards the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u793	Thank you. (John Palalic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u794	A colleague, Jovanovic, mentioned the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS. If we could not compare the time when the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica were in power with the time when DS was in power and here it is now being respected that at that time was all the worst, then we would simply be in a situation where today we tell citizens that it was never better lived than in 2012, after four years of DS authorities. During the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the standard of citizens was incomparably better than today. Just some citizens compare how much higher their incomes were, how stable the market was, how much investments were in Serbia, how they lived then, and how they lived after four years of your government. They have destroyed institutions, poor citizens, investments nowhere in Serbia. Now you're saying it was all disputed at the time. Why didn't you investigate if there was a crime, if there was corruption? Why in four years has nothing been proven, but now you honor us and compare that during that time it was controversial? You cannot replace your failure and your bad authority with only such criticism. Pay attention when you use and when you talk about the DSS, and especially with such accusations that everything was bad during that government, that everything was for the citizens. They've never lived up there before, but during your power. So in that sense pay attention and respect no more DSS, don't compare those two times, because they can't compare. Citizens lived better during the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u795	Thank you. Ivan Jovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u796	I can see my colleagues didn't understand me. As far as the DSS is concerned, I mentioned the government, but I'm not in a negative context at all, and I don't see any reason for the replica. It's just, I had a controversy with a colleague from G17. I don't know who mentioned some kind of life at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I really don't understand. As for Mr. Arsic, all I can say is that he's listed a lot of the problems that exist. There are other organs involved in solving these problems. The question is how they do it, but it's not the essence of my exposure. The point is that by particizing the National Bank, you will not solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u797	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gordana Komic tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u798	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today on our working day, the president of the National Assembly, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, resigned. As part of my discussion, I would like to thank Mr. Dejan Soskic for spending his time with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the affairs of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. If we start a process of self-respect for all those we vote for at least once and then thank them, no matter how they stop performing their public function, then there is hope that the governments of the institutions in Serbia will indeed be. And Dejan Šoškovic, except I think he was doing the job of the governor of NBS in the circumstances and context as best as possible. Dejan Šoškovic gave us a chance as a legislative body, resigning, said he did not want political extortion, and that if his resignation is a way of considering the bad provisions of the law which, according to the Rules of Procedure, by emergency procedure, but because of the content of the provisions too quickly, because of the exclusion of suspicion in the international and domestic public, he gave us all a chance to consider the provisions that we want to see in the new Law on the National Bank of Serbia. He gave us a chance for political wisdom. I do not stress either the proposals or the demands or colleagues of MPs from the ruling majority of ninjas from the opposition, just reminding you of the context that there is no obstacle to electing the new governor of the National Bank of Serbia, but the provisions of this law, if it insists on such ones being proposed, will be an obstacle to the National Bank with a good reputation really working on the international and domestic market. We've heard that it's very difficult to live with high loans. We've been sending messages to people who've taken loans, that by choosing a new governor, the situation with their credit wars will change for the better. I want you to succeed, however the proposal of the National Bank of Serbia ends. I truly want it to work. The second topic that has been cited for reasons of change and complementing is the ratio of insufficient control with banks. And there I want you to succeed from your heart that banks and Serbia, as well as the process of the world banking market, be so that banks are completely constrained in the space for abuse of anything, but in order for this to happen you cannot have such proposals for the provisions of the law. you cannot propose to the Governor of the Director and Director of the Management Board of Finance Control. You can't introduce double-headedness where one must be responsible. You cannot introduce the National Assembly with the definition that the control and supervision of the National Assembly is in that the National Assembly elects both governors and vice governors, because it will end, and that is doubt, and that is, the thing that we will control, is the chance for all of us to control, whether the governor, the director, will be from one party, the governor of the Financial Supervisory Board from another party, and the Vice-Governors of the other parties. Dejan Šoškovic gave you a chance today to choose the governor and to make a reasonable procedure for the new provisions in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia an authorised proposal, according to the Constitution, the National Bank of Serbia and it is only up to you to see how much of the chance it is, above all, for those who claim that changes in the structure of the National Bank of Serbia will bring about a better life for citizens living under heavy credit wars and that there will be strict banking control. You don't miss a chance like this. Without doubting your mind, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u799	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratislav Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have had the opportunity to listen to the story that was happening in May of the month, that if one candidate for president is not there, we will have a war, we will have poverty. You continue again today with the story of the National Bank that, if that same governor of yours does not continue to be governor, Serbia is doomed. You say we give you political sermons, and you're obviously getting ready, some of you in front of the mirror, to give us a lecture here, and to stay up late at night, because you want to make a theater, so you call and say, for the sake of the people. I'll remind you, for the sake of that same people, what happened in 2004 when you were replacing Kori Udovici and your vote in the Parliament at the time. Remember the changes in the law, those of you who were here in 2010 and the shifts of previous Governor Jelasic. Remember what kind of media hack you've led against him in all your party bulletins, in all your party TVs, that he finally had to leave Serbia. None of you today, and here's 12 hours as he discusses, and he doesn't want to discuss the aspects of this law that he brings good or bad. You don't want to, you call on the people again to read what you are calling for and swear on the people, and that's why law-making -- in one part of what you don't want, they're correcting to increase the supervision of the National Assembly over the Central Bank in accordance with constitutional provisions. Please, when you quote, quote it all the way and don't ask for the chance that you can only have the right to a replica, because we've listened to the previous two laws. It's clear to us that you're having a hard time putting up with the fact that you're the former regime. We know it's hard for you, but you're an ex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u801	Mr. Bozovicu. The People's Parliament of Ljiljana Lucic has signed up before you. Is she giving up? Replica? Excuse me, please, since you're on my list. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u802	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I'll tell Mr. Gasic we've been sitting here for 12 hours, because Mr. Gasic doesn't know what we're talking about, and he doesn't even know what kind of law the SNS gentlemen have proposed. He was talking about Kora Udovicki's shift, and he actually said that Kori Udovici changed DS. He confused the pots, Kori Udovicki replaced Mladjan Dinkic, with Mr. Kostunica at the helm. That's one thing. The other thing is that Mr. Gasic was talking about Governor Jelasic's shift, and I would remind him of Mr. Predrag Markovic's speech a few minutes ago, which he himself said Jelasic resigned from the post. We've been sitting for 12 hours, because there's a reason why we're sitting. Many things to today's regime are not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u803	The word is Mr. Gasic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u804	Thank you, Madam Chairman. A young colleague, Mr. Gasic knows exactly what he's talking about, and remember you and your president of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic in 2004, as Neda Arneric voted from Bodrum. Remember the heifer you ran in 2010 against Governor Jelasic and then you will be able to answer me for what I was talking about. Let's get back to the subject, let's finish the discussion and discuss this law, so we can move on to another one. Don't deal with any more of the thesis you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u805	Balša Bozovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u806	Mr. Gasic, you've obviously been out of politics for a long time. I may be doing a little bit shorter than you, but I know some things a lot better. The Democratic Party voted for Kori Udovici, not her shift. I would ask Mr Arsic and Mrs Joksimovic to prepare their MPs a little better, so that this debate will last much shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u807	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u808	We can discuss how different officials are elected. My colleague, I have a lot to tell you, but what's true is that Cory Widowsky was chosen with one voice from Bodrum. She was elected in 2003. At that time, DS was harshly falsified by the People's Assembly's Journal of Labour and the results of the vote. A democratic party. We can also talk about the performance and shift of Jelasic. I don't want to get into it, I wasn't in the coalition with them at the time, whether it's justified or not, but you have some things to understand, which is that today one coalition is responding to the citizens of Serbia. Like I said, if you want her to answer, there must be some rights. The aim of this law is not to replace Governor Shoskovic. The aim is to create mechanisms for supervision of the National Assembly towards the National Bank, so that the National Bank can do its job more quality and justify its purpose of existence. That is the objective of the amendment to this law. Whether Governor Šoškic was doing well or not, my personal opinion is that he was not doing well. Who will be the candidate for the new governor is decided by the President of the Republic of Serbia, and it is up to us to accept or reject his proposal. As far as these party personnel are concerned, which are often mentioned, I would like to remind you that after this item of the agenda we immediately choose the Protector of the Citizens. As far as I know, he is not from these political groups that make up today’s congregation majority. We offered seats to ministers who were from other parties, even once from your party. Today's foreign minister is a non-party figure. Unfortunately, Serbia is in such a situation today that it has to engage what is best, regardless of party membership or not belonging to any political party, in order to get out of the crisis as quickly and as painlessly as possible, so as not to go into the sun. We're being threatened by one irresponsible policy, one irresponsible relationship. You're talking about the urgency of the procedure. What is the most important law in the state after the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Budget law. We got it 48 hours before the assembly session. A law that has 400-500 pages, and it's hard for you 10 pages to read, so it's a little bit. For the most important law, passed by the Assembly after the Constitution, you have been uniting the debate with four or five other laws, with limited debates by parliamentary groups. That's when we had 20 MPs, 27 minutes. If we had given it to one MP to talk, he wouldn't be able to talk about both the budget and the other laws that followed him. That's the kind of Rules of Procedure you've made, and that's what you're doing. The goal is to raise both the reputation of the National Assembly and its authority. For years, the media you've been controlling has been distracting us with the MPs. They're writing a newspaper about how, not to get too into that story. Why? To draw attention from bad authority, from bad results. That's what this is about. We have no reason, no one, no one to take away any right of opposition, but we are asking that the opposition at least in one part give up, not its rights, but to accept discussions as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u809	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u810	I thank the Honorable Chairman. We do not want to mention any counterfeits, especially you, as they would certainly touch Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic's diplomas. When it comes to the call of the current ruling majority regime, led by Ivica Dacic, Dinkic and Tomislav Nikolic, individual DS personnel in the new government, it is a kind of recognition of our European integration policy, and I talked about it a few days ago when the government was elected. When Mr. Vukic was head of the parliamentary club in the first few days of work of this Parliament, he spoke about the results of the fight against organised crime. I sincerely hope that he spoke sincerely and that is to acknowledge our policy of fighting organised crime. I said then, and I'll tell you again, we're not mad because this government doesn't have its own policy. You have to understand that. Feel free to take our policy, only by doing so in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u811	The word is Radmila Gerov's folk emissary, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u812	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of Article 106(1). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. A moment ago, Mr Veroljub Arsic spoke about how the current government was created and how the ministers were elected, which is not the point of the agenda, which is a non-party figure. In this way, he injured Rule 106 of Rule 1 of this Rules of Procedure. In doing so, we had the opportunity to hear from certain MPs from the two largest political parties and the SNS, and the DS, that we are already working here for 12 hours, which is not true, because we are working a total of nine hours, and I suggest that, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 4 after this first item of the agenda, you postpone your session tomorrow morning at 10.00 hours, so that the MPs will rest, since they are clearly caught by fatigue and that we can proceed uninterruptedly tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u813	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u814	Someone has to understand, I understand, the parliamentary experience doesn't have enough to explain to my colleague the mistakes he made in his presentation on the subject and I'm giving examples of how this new ruling coalition is doing. That's why I've been talking about government members, the way the government chooses, etc., and as far as you're concerned, dear colleague, don't worry about this government's program. Your government has been so successful that it is enough that no single cabinet session will be held. That this government is doing nothing and 10 times better than yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u815	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u816	Madam, colleague, MP, who said we're not on the agenda, is partly right and I accept that kind of criticism, perhaps personally. My replica must be a replica of what really wasn't a topic, and what Mr. Deputy Chief of Parliament, if I'm not mistaken, Bozovic mentioned. Mr. Bozovicu, your performance is the paradigm of your former regime. A combination of haughtiness, ignoring, one line of condescending, but study what that word means, because it is usually interpreted differently. In a performance about how the SNS parliamentary group, as you said, prepares its MPs, so you also called me Mr. Arsic as we prepare our MPs. You know, I don't know how you're getting ready in your MP group. The election results show that you've been preparing very badly. Unlike us, who are in the congregation today and are willing to work for more than 12 hours, you have not even sat in parliamentary benches. You weren't interested in that at the time. Well, well, that's your manners. He's giving some results. They reflect themselves in the elections, and that's how it is now. Accept that fact. That kind of haughtiness and ignorance, be kind, forget about performing with SNS representatives, and we'll always replicate to you, be sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u817	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Balša Bozovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u818	I thank the Honorable Chairman. counterpart Jadranka Joksimovic, if I am not mistaken, the arrogance and condescending do not go together. That's it. As for the election results and what citizens think of us, the government, where the backbone was DS, led by Mirko Cvetkovic, received more in these elections than in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u819	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u820	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Fellow MPs, we from the DS MPs' club, these days at the first session of the new assembly of parliament, are warning that the new government in the first legislative projects has shown unusual political rematch, which has resulted in some major democratic standards, which previous governments, including the one led by DS, have managed to establish in Serbia with many difficulties. We're really worried about that fact, and I promise you, whenever there's room for it and when we see that it's about undoing something we've done successfully, we'll react. It really brings us back and shows all the emptyness and declaration of the new policy that is being established in Serbia these days and reminds us of some of the times that we thought were long gone, but unfortunately we are witnessing attempts to get it back. The government defends these new solutions with very demagogue empty arguments, about reducing administrations, savings, which, of course, is not true, and when we talk about the departmentization that was the main slogan, the main topic of the campaign, these days we've seen what it means. Department means relieving anyone who was a non-party person, whether he was elected to the competition, the departmentalism thinks the ruling majority today in Serbia begins when we move all our party people across Serbia. It's a departmentalization of what it's like to see a new government. It is similar, unfortunately, with the independence of individual institutions, such as the National Bank, which we are discussing today, with the independence of regulatory bodies, regardless of what one is, I would say, frightened under pressure, the head of an independent body, said these days – the law is good, it will not change me. So it's obvious that the new government will respect it independently then when and how well it suits it. So, there is pure volunteering in Serbia, but what is happening with the National Bank of Serbia is much more serious, it is disturbing the local public, especially the professional public in Serbia, but also international financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which is very serious because this government, as well as the previous ones, intends to continue the arrangements with these financial institutions and such changes to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia certainly will not facilitate the negotiations that are ahead of us. In fact, the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia is difficult to defend with the demagogue phrases, that for God's sake it is about strengthening the control function of the National Bank, it is now quite obvious both from the Expose mandate and from other statements, the question of how to grab the National Bank's foreign reserve. That is why it is necessary for a man in whom the Government has confidence, therefore reliable, to say our man, and therefore we have this bill on amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The proposal presents a kind of legal and political violence that is most difficult to threaten the constitutional position of the National Bank of Serbia and its independence. The president of the state, Deputy Prime Minister, MPs of the assembly's majority, has been openly speaking for days that the governor should be removed and Ms. Jorganko Tabakovic placed in the post. On the objections that were made to the public, that there are neither constitutional nor legal assumptions, we have received, it is called haughtiness, we have received a blatant answer. We'll change the law. And today we have before us the law to elect Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank. She's not here today, I believe she doesn't underestimate parliament, she's always been one of the poorest MPs, I believe she's uncomfortable, not feeling comfortable... (President: You have 10 seconds left to warn you. ) Mrs Tabakovićka was in this same parliament last year, at the fourth session of the regular session in superlate talks on Dejan Šoštic. I can quote you that record. (Chairman: Please, time is up for the parliamentary group.) I'll finish, but allow me half a sentence, since we have an estimate here and we're keeping an eye on it and we've checked that we have time. Mrs. Comic said that the governor has filled us with an elegant solution, resigned, chose Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, do not touch the National Bank's independence. Why am I reacting? The author-in-Office commented on Mr. Soskovic's resignation. He's not here, I wouldn't be defending him, if he were here, he said -- he resigned so he could take 80% of the compensation, which he's now receiving for the next six months. I challenge Mr. Arsic, let him challenge Mr. Dejan Shoskovic, let him withdraw the law and leave him without that fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u821	Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u822	The replica of Mrs. Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u823	Who mentioned you? You have no right to a replica. No one mentioned you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go. He's not here. ) Next, the word has the People's MP, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u824	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so today we have an extremely important legislative proposal, a system law. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, it is logical that we have one of this quality and content and I would say a bile debate within the Republic's parliament. At the very beginning, I will say what Mr. Ruzic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club and Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, the leader of Unity of Serbia, said that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club and the coalition of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the United Pensioners of Serbia's United Serbia, would support this legislative proposal in the day to vote. Also, if it is an opportunity for us to express our gratitude to Mr Shoskovic, we had no doubt that he had good intentions, we did not dispute his expertise, but the reality at this point is something else and the results are something else. I think the time is for us in Serbia to value something that can be defined as a result in the right sense of words. What I also want to say is that the National Bank of Serbia, is one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Serbia that over-regulates the area of macroeconomic and financial stability of the state. Therefore, any amendment to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia is vital and essential. In June 2010, when we talked in the Republic Parliament about amendments to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, we made it very clear that frequent changes in the system laws that sometimes change the essence are not kind of popular and sometimes cast a shadow of consistency and efficiency. At that time, we suggested that a more rational solution rather than so many amendments to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, that a more rational solution was to adopt a new law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, because all circumstances spoke in favour of such a finding. It was in a certain context and it was real. We had a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that artificial formation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro disappeared, and Serbia was for the first time an independent and sovereign state. After the adoption of the Constitution and here I would agree with Mr Arsic in full, I would say there are no more significant laws than the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Governments, the Law on Ministrys, the Law on the National Assembly and, of course, laws governing the area of justice in Serbia. Systemic laws regulate and strengthen the functioning of state institutions in Serbia and that is what our ultimate goal is. Therefore, strengthening and functioning of state institutions in the Republic of Serbia. So, before us are the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, not the election and shift of governors, not the debate on the work of the current governor, but the former governor, since during the day we received the resignation of Mr. Soskovic, but of amendments and additions, and therefore the paper is the return of supervisory function to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as an institution, as the highest legislative body, or body of the legislative authority. We see absolutely nothing controversial here, that decisions made by vital ones, which are essential to Serbia, which are vital and essential to the citizens of Serbia, are right here, within the Republic of Parliament. I guess it's logical, and that's what Mr. Markovic said very clearly in his opening statement, that the governor and members of the Council report are reporting right here in the Republic Parliament. Whether decisions that we will make here within the Republic of Parliament in the next few days, in the coming months, for the next four years, will be a step back or a step forward for Serbia, that time will show. I can understand the suggestion when it comes to system laws, that we should have a broad public debate right before the debate on system laws here within the Republic of Parliament, and that should be a practice when it comes to system laws in the coming time period. But why the urgency? It's completely clear and completely accurate. At the beginning of her term, the government made it very clear that she was taking responsibility and that she would be effective. Are the provisions in line with EU legislation? I'm going to mention you again, Mr. Arsic, because in your opening statement, you made it very clear what the practice of some significant countries is in the environment. It is legitimate for the opposition to have a critical look at the work of the ruling coalition, but the ruling coalition has the right to run an independent policy, has the right to run an independent policy and finance. Here today was also about the '90s, and today there was also about departementisation, about depolitisation. When it comes to the '90s, the colleague who mentioned it during the pre-day session isn't there, I'm not going to spread the story, just in a few sentences to say. When it comes to the '90s and as far as the SPS is concerned, lessons are learned from the past, errors are taught. The fact that some political options have not learned lessons from their past is absolutely not an SPS problem. As for the departmentalisation and depolitication, we advocate first-class expertise as a parliamentary club, as a coalition of the SPS-PUPS-JS, but former governors were either politicians, or were proposed by political parties that were at the moment part of the ruling coalition. When you're out of power, then you just become an expert. In our political practice there have been different conflicting opinions, attitudes, and even between individual ministers, government members and governors representing the NBS policy. The central bank's policy objectives were often contrary to the economic objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia. This cannot and must not be exclusive in co-operation, in the adoption and creation of macroeconomic policy. These changes do not endanger independence and independence, but on the other hand, I want to say that strengthening independence and independence must not create a gap between institutions. The economic policy of the state cannot be effective if the governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia leads one policy, tells one story, and the government has a different concept of financial management. I guess that's pretty clear. As a Parliament club, we will wait for the Rules of Procedure to pass the deadline of 24 hours, since we have heard that there are a number of amendments. Of course, after the 24 hours foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, we are ready to continue this quality and content debate on amendments submitted by fellow Members and, of course, that, why not, I think that this is the position and other colleagues from the ruling coalition, to accept some amendments if they will correct the existing legislative proposal. What I want to say at the very end is, on many occasions during today's debate, some kind of gathering headquarters within the ruling coalition has been mentioned. To be clear, there is no headquarters and such a way of functioning the government and the ruling coalition is not good and is not in Serbia's interest. There is one team headed by Prime Minister and SPS President Ivica Dacic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u825	Mr. Balša Bozovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u826	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I refer to Article 104, paragraphs 1 and 2. Mrs Joksimovic called the entire DS parliamentary group a bahatoma. The Honorable Chairman Kovac did not want to give me the right to a replica, and then when I reported to the Rules of Procedure, she just continued with the MPs waiting in line. When it comes to haughtiness, Tomislav Nikolic made a statement yesterday in a statement to TV Pink... (President: I ask all Members of the People's Parliament to conduct this debate with dignity. As for Mr Nikolic, Mr Nikolic is the president of the Republic of Serbia and is not involved in this debate, nor is he on the agenda, nor has he discussed this item of the agenda, so please do not let the President of the Republic get involved in this debate. ) What I was going to add is that all day long, it's just not about the essence, and it's about the legislator, Mr. Arsic, who's been talking all the time about how the SNS departis is doing. I'd just look back at one thing, if it were to function... (President: Mr Bozovicu, you know that on the basis of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure you can only talk about the way the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I know that for MPs, it's convenient for them to use the Rules of Procedure, I'll make up for your time, in the absence of the time of the parliamentary group, but I ask you, to prevent anyone else from using it, that you stick to what the Rules of Procedure is, and you will have the opportunity, I think as deputy head of Parliament, you have five minutes left to use for the debate, so I advise you to take this time. I thank you. We also agreed on a new software to measure time from behind, so that everyone could see how much time he has left, and hopefully we'll have that opportunity next session. What I wanted to add is that yesterday on TV Pink is the president of the Republic of Serbia who is... (President: Please, since we are already in the debate that has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure,... Can you let me finish my sentence? You don't even know what I'm saying. (President: finish your sentence.) ) I quote: "We are not satisfied with Governor Šoškovic, and this logically follows his replacement. "I just wanted to ask the SNS gentlemen - who are we? Didn't we talk about the department and didn't you talk about the department?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u827	Mr Bozovicu, please finish now, as time has already expired and with compensation but it really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've sustained a breach of Article 104, and I thank you. Mr Veroljub Arsic, a representative of the promoter, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll give you a chance for a replica, if anyone wants to. I'm not looking for a replica, I'm looking for a word, based on being an authorized representative of the promoter. One of my colleagues said, among other things, that we should withdraw the law from the procedure and schedule a duel with outgoing Governor Shoskovic. I would like to draw attention to my fellow MP to the need to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the National MP, because no one has forbidden the gentleman leaving the governor to come here for a session and talk to us. So believe me, it doesn't occur to me that I'm making any kind of duel with him. When it comes to the law itself and the withdrawal of the law from the procedure, if we were to withdraw the law from the procedure, Mr. Šoškić would be given his resignation for all six full salaries, and this way he will receive 80%. I would ask my colleague or colleague to carefully read the resignation submitted by Governor Šoškovic, so when she reads to see who's cynical, he or I. The purpose of this law is not to shift governors, but to have more affairs about money laundering not happening to us, that more affairs like the Agrobank affair are not happening to us. I can't understand the MPs of the opposition who have the right to control over the National Bank and us who support the ruling majority, we give it to you for the right, the right that we as an opposition didn't have, that you didn't want to give us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u829	As deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u830	Thank you. I thought you gave me your first word as deputy chief, so there was a misunderstanding. When it comes to haughtiness, to go back to what I wanted to say a few minutes ago, Tomislav Nikolic said on TV "Pink" yesterday – we are not satisfied with the way Governor Soskovic was doing his duty, and therefore logically follows the shift. I just wanted to ask who we are. Didn't Nikolic promise, when he became president of all citizens, that he would file all resignations to functions within the SNS? If Tomislav Nikolic is not persuing himself, which is also one real possibility, he is obliged to tell citizens on whose behalf he spoke yesterday. If he speaks for the SNS, that means he's a liar for resigning, that means it's a lie not to interfere with SNS decisions. You, gentlemen of the SNS, Mladjan Dinkic and Tomislav Nikolic, are acting on that matrix – when I cannot comply with the law, then let me replace it with that law that suits me. Unfortunately, this law also corresponds to Marijan Risticevic, and Palmi from Jagodina, and Mladjan Dinkic, and Tomislav Nikolic, but only to Serbian citizens. To keep the matter clean, the governor's shift can only be carried out by the law under which the governor was elected. Everything else, on the one hand, is immoral, and on the other hand it shows that these decisions are behind your unholy intentions. To make the matter worse, the current regime's intention is to place a SNS political commissioner on the post of the National Bank. Is that Mr.... (President: Mr Bozovicu, first of all, under Article 106(1), you can only talk about the agenda point. That's what I'm talking about. (President: The appointment of the governor is not a part of the agenda. The amendment of the National Bank Act is the agenda. Also, I would ask all the MPs to allow normal work in the O.R. What's being said in the O.R. isn't just about one parliamentary group, everyone's using it. I ask all the MPs, regardless of political belongings, to keep normal work in the O.R. Please, since the President of the Republic is not the subject of this law, since he has not participated in this debate, nor is he a member of this House... Yesterday he made a statement. (President: The President of the Republic makes statements as President of the Republic, you can politically comment, but you can make references to the President of the Republic on Tuesdays and Thursdays, which you have the right to do. What I want to ask you now is that during your debate, of course, I'll give you back your time, you're talking about a law that's on the agenda. ) Mr Stefanovic, obviously you did not listen to me very carefully, I asked a question to the SNS parliamentary group, not to Tomislav Nikolic. The other thing is that I was saying that these amendments to the law, proposed by you, or Mr. Arsic, allow political commissioners to head the National Bank of Serbia. Whether it's Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic or not, I don't want to go into it, and I don't want to get into her expertise. I know that the lady finished, or graduated and doctored in Pristina, and that this serious function, her life, was the minister of privatisation in Shesel and Milosevic's government, but I'm really not talking about the choice of governors, I'm talking about a law that allows the governor to be a party figure. If the governor is a party figure, such as the prime minister, as ministers, then there's no need for the governor to exist at all. That's the point. Then give Mladjan Dinkic, given his life experience, to lead monetary and fiscal policy. Since you don't want to hear arguments or you're in a lot of pain, the governor exists... (President: I ask the People's MPs to refrain from throwing themselves out of the bench. Please, this is how we can go on forever, and it really doesn't contribute to this home's dignity. ) I just want to underline the fact that the choice of party personality as governor of the National Bank of Serbia devises the existence of this function. The National Bank exists to be independent of the government, prime ministers and ministers. By choosing a political commissioner, which allows for this law, I think it is bad for the interests of the citizens of Serbia above all, and I think it is bad for the future of those young generations who are about to live in this country. Thank you. [[Jadranka Joksimovic, from the place: I am looking for a replica, because Mr Bozovic mentioned me.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u831	Did he mention you personally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u832	Thank you. So, Mr. Bozovic, otherwise I really do, I have to be personal, for someone who is mostly argumentative and I accept that kind of argument and debate. With you, I really do, believe me, the problem is that I even have an argumentary conversation with you, because your performance and your argument is insufficient for any serious communication and dialogue, but I'm going to tell you, since you've called a parliamentary group on behalf of the President of the Republic, to read the Constitution and Article 111 that regulates the position of the President of the Republic, you might be able to interpret a little bit what it means between the lines. The member reads - The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. Now I don't know if you understand the meaning of state unity as a syntagma in political, legal, sociological, whatever other aspect you want, I believe you might understand. I will accept that you understand and that you will respect this argument. On the other hand, I have to tell you that the arrogance I used, which you experienced as an epithet for the entire DS, was actually a way to characterize the performance of the former regime, whose backbone was exactly DS. I'll accept your criticism, you're right, I don't want to call the entire parliamentary group "bright," just you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u833	I also ask Mrs Joksimovic not to use inappropriate terms. Mr. Bozovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u834	This behavior is common for Mrs Joksimovic, and I'm not surprised. I had a chance to get to know her by her reputation. What's important on the other hand, then you bring things into the next position. The question then arises whether it was Tomislav Nikolic who ordered you to replace Mr. Soskovic because of state unity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u835	Since we've exhausted the list of speakers and we don't have a word for it anymore. Before concluding a principled search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search in the draft law. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – CHOICE OF THE CITIZER. For this item of the agenda, you have received a proposal for a decision on the selection of citizens' protectors submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. If there is no proposal to increase time, I will conclude that the time of debate per parliamentary group is the following: the parliamentary group Serbian Progressive Party - one hour and 18 minutes, the parliamentary group Democratic Party - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Dukes of Hungary - six minutes, the parliamentary group SP-DHS - six minutes and the six minutes of the national group of Serbia's six-members national group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MP Gordana Komic will be authorised as DS representative for this item of the agenda, for LDP MP Miljenko Dereta. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision on the choice of guardians of citizens. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Mr Vladimir Cvian, president of the Committee want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly at its session of 1 August 2012 unanimously and I am stressing that it has unanimously adopted a decision, namely Mr. Sasa Jankovic's candidacy, a candidate proposed by several parliamentary groups. I would only take the opportunity to read in the shortest biography of Sasa Jankovic, which has been presented to us on this occasion. Sasa Jankovic is a Belgrade graduate lawyer. MPs of the Serbian Parliament elected him with a majority of 143 votes as the Protectors of the Republic of Serbia's citizens on 29 June 2007. He took an oath in the Assembly on 23 June 2007. Jankovic was born in 1970 in Loznica. He graduated from law school in Belgrade in 1996. In 2005 he graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences and obtained a call from national and global security specialists. From 1994 to 1997, Beta was a journalist, from 1997 to 2000, a professional associate at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and from 2000 to 2001 he served as the secretary of the Federal Ministry of Sports, from 2001 to 2003 as an assistant to the Federal Secretary for Sport and Youth. From 2003 to the election of the citizens' protectors, he was a national legal adviser to the OSCE Mission Democratisation Department in Belgrade. He speaks English. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Laws of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a decision on the choice of citizens' protectors be taken by emergency procedure. I'm also taking the opportunity to say hello to Mr. Sasa Jankovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u837	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Balint Pastor has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u838	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to start by saying that in the voting day we will support Mr. Jankovic's election to this very important function. In the later part of my discussion, I'm going to say why, but right at first I want to express my satisfaction that consensus has been reached on this matter. I don't remember the last time in the National Assembly that nearly all parliamentary groups announced that they would vote for a particular proposal, in this case for Mr Jankovic's election, or more specifically for re-election of Mr Jankovic as an ombucman. I just said it was a very important and important function. I said this because, as we know, the protection of citizens in all countries where the institution exists, on behalf of Parliament, controls the application of laws and protects human rights, and in the Republic of Serbia from the adoption and entry into force of the Law on the Protector of Citizens. I would like to remind the MPs that in the AP, the protection of citizens has been a mandatory organ since 2002. Under the current law, the protection of citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the protection of citizens takes care of the protection and promotion of human and minority freedoms and rights. We were MPs who proposed, in 2007 when amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, that the protection of citizens should be explicitly stated to care and to improve minority rights not only human rights. I want to say that it is very bad for the functioning of the rule of law and for the rule of law that the protector of citizens has not been elected before. Under the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the procedure for the selection of the Ombudsman begins no later than six months before the end of the term of office of the previous Civil Protection Officer. During the previous term, we have appealed to MPs and MPs of the day, as well as to the President of the National Assembly to do this job before the elections because we still felt there should be no inter-periode as regards the functioning of institutions, especially those who care for the protection and promotion of human and minority rights. That is why we proposed Mr Jankovic as the first parliamentary group on 16 March of the current year for the protection of citizens, and we hoped that we would have this session before May before the elections. Unfortunately, it did not happen, and Mr. Jankovic's term of office expired ten days ago, so we had a similar interview for ten days as regards the functioning of the citizens' protectors. When we talk about the promoters and who suggested Mr Jankovic to this function, I mentioned earlier, that in the past term we were the first to do this, means then the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. After us, it was done by the LDP parliamentary group as well as the SPS. On this occasion, we did not want to race with other parliamentary groups who proposed Mr Jankovic and which is the order, I say we did it in March this year. So now officially, legally speaking, we're not proposing, but we'll be very happy to vote on Saturday for Mr. Jankovic. Under the law, a person performing this function should possess high moral and professional qualities and have observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. I think over the past years they have proven that Mr. Jankovic has performed this function professionally, securely, professionally, and that he has all the qualities to perform this duty for another five years. I think it should be done to make this significant function more taken more seriously by certain state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I think there's been a lot of trouble about that. I would like to remind you that in 2007, with a delay of almost a year, as the National Assembly, we have given consent, namely, to appoint four Deputy Protectors of Citizens. That was a pretty big problem. I would also like to remind myself that the Protector of the citizens of all these years has been constantly working on the opportunities that seemed in a way that there were both technical and material problems in the functioning of the protecters of citizens. I hope it doesn't come to that in the future, because according to Article 37. The Law on the Protector of Citizens should provide funds for the work of the Protector of Citizens. In addition, the Government and the competent committee of the Assembly are obliged to consider initiatives submitted by the Citizens' Protector. I think there's been a problem in the past, and as far as that goes. The authorities have an obligation to co-operate with the citizens' protector. I think it's a lot of charms in this picture if we're looking at a period of the last five years. The President of the Republic, the President and the members of the Government, as well as the President of the Assembly, and the President of the Constitutional Court and officials in the bodies of the administration, shall be obliged to accept the Protector of Citizens at his request no later than 15 days. I don't think there were any problems here in the National Assembly, but there were problems with certain administration bodies. We think, not only of the Citizens' Protector, but also of the National Bank, for example, trustees and other very significant functions, that these institutions should function, should be stable. I hope that we as the National Assembly will work on it in the next period. We expect this from both the President of the Republic and the Government and other state bodies. At first, I said we would be happy to vote for Mr. Jankovic. I would like to briefly explain what I am based on the claim that he has performed this duty in a safe, responsible and professional manner. We had several cases in the previous period that proved that his co-operation with the National Assembly, especially with the Manjin parliamentary group, was excellent in the previous meeting. I'd like to remind you that in 2009, on the agenda of the National Assembly, we had a proposal for a census law. The Manjina parliamentary group has tabled an amendment, because we had a problem in carrying out or implementing the test list, that citizens could choose between alternatives Serbian membership and other belongings, as far as nationality is concerned. We have pointed out that this is against the constitution, that this is a step backwards from decades of practice as regards the census. We have tabled the amendment and enjoyed the support and protection of citizens with regard to the amendment, which has greatly contributed to the adoption of the amendment, despite the opposition of some state authorities, because this amendment has made their work more complicated in the census process. The second proposal for a law that we worked very well together for was this bill on rationalising local administration. Here we have appealed to the congregation majority to accept an amendment that should guarantee that in those local self - administrations in which the language of a national minority is officially used, there remains a sufficient number of officials who, after firing, speak that language or those languages that are officially used in the territory of those units of local self - government. Another example I'd like to make. It is not related to the Manjin parliamentary group of the previous National Assembly. The example concerns judicial reform. I would like to say that it is very good that the protection of citizens has warned the state authorities of the possible negative consequences of such a reform of the judiciary since the very beginning of the reform of the judiciary. I think that now, later on with certainty, we can say that the public defender was right when he warned the government of the then and the National Assembly in the previous meeting that there would be problems after the rule of law and the existence of the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. After all these words of praise, I would also like to say one objection to Mr. Jankovic's work. That's what I was talking about when we talked about in March, when we asked you about your approval to run for office for the next five years. I said then that we would be very happy to suggest, that we would like to do so and that we would support you in the voting day, but that we would also have certain objections. These objections concern a single topic from the previous period. It's about the law on the return of seized property and damages from last year. You remember very well that there was a very lively debate here in the National Assembly last fall, that a law that contained one, according to us, discriminatory provision, which was prescribed, and still prescribed that those persons who were members of the occupation forces, acting in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia, cannot be users of the restitution and that their successors are automatically excluded. We said it is discriminatory not because we are undermining the importance of anti-fascism in Serbia, but because it is not at all a matter of discrimination, that some constitutional provisions have been violated. In addition to the ban on discrimination, it is also an assumption of innocence, as well as the right to a fair trial. It's about the principle of individual responsibility. We voted against that bill. We asked the then president of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, not to declare the law. We spoke to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Later, the problem was solved by the adoption of a new rehabilitation law and now we have a clean situation regarding the application of these laws. Mr. Jankovic, we expected you to answer these questions. You had more options at your disposal. Under the Law on the Protector of Citizens, you can't make statements of a political nature, but we didn't expect that. We also know that you are not authorised to control the work of the National Assembly, but under the law you have the right to submit an initiative to amend or supplement laws and other regulations and general acts if you consider that infringements of citizens' rights are due to shortcomings in the regulations, that is Article 18(2). The Civil Protection Act. We believe that this situation was in effect last year, in September, October. In addition, you are authorized to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, and you have not done so. It's one last-term grudge, but I think it's quite clear that your activity has many, many more positive sides. I was just talking about some, to us most importantly, talking about. We believe that you have contributed with your activities to the consolidation of the Civil Protection Institution, that thanks to your activity, the Citizens' Protector has entered the public life of the Republic of Serbia, in the sense that citizens also know about the existence of this significant institution. We know that in a large number of citizens speak to you, which is good. For all reasons, the MPs of the SVM will be very happy to vote in favour of your re-election, I hope, on Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u839	Thank you. Mr Enise Imamovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u840	Dear President, Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the Bosniaks in this House, we MPs of the Sandzak Democratic Action Party will support Mr Jankovic's re-election. We consider the protection of citizens to be a good state mechanism, which should be a sort of guarantee that all the rights that provide for the Constitution and the laws, for members of national minorities, are also practically achieved. Therefore, for Bosniaks and other minority communities in Serbia, it is extremely important that this hard and demanding job is performed in a quality manner by a competent person. Legal aid in Sandzak is quite expensive. Citizens are often in a situation where they suffer great injustices and damages because of the inability to hire lawyers. The processes last long and often and invaluable to seek justice. The Sandzak Democratic Action Party has entered this government with the aim of changing the situation for the better through the institutions of the system, using legal means, co-operation and agreements. As Bosniak representatives, we want to improve the conditions of life and work for Bosniaks, for all citizens living in Sandzak and the whole country. In all this, the Guardian of Citizens is seen as one of the main roles. Mr Jankovic, if re-elected, is expected to work together to overcome all obstacles and make it easier for Bosniaks and other national minorities to achieve their individual and collective rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of our country. To solve these problems, strong activities by the Protectors and his team are needed, but also help the state in terms of achieving better conditions for its work. We hope that his office will not only be a complaint counter, but it will be a place where citizens' problems will actually be solved effectively. We believe that Mr Jankovic is an adequate person to deal with these issues, and that it is logical and logical to entrust him with another mandate. Accordingly, I would also like to say that the entire National Minority Parliament Club, the People's Party and Rich Serbia, will also support Mr Jankovic's choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u841	Thank you. The word is by Mrs Vesna Milekić, the author of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u842	Dear Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, at first I have an expression of regret on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, which is that we didn't talk this morning at 11:00, when all these parliamentary benches were filled. I think Mr. Jankovic deserved at least so much, that a person who manages to make peace like this sometimes with the scarved sides, like both sides here that we've been following back a week, I think he's earned at least so much that he's got a full bench here and we've all been listening a little bit about how one man's been doing well for the last five years. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group fully supports the election for the new five years, Mr. Jankovic. There are a number of reasons, it's already late, there's been a lot of talk, and probably a lot of colleagues after me will say a lot. When something is good, it is good to hear again that someone has managed to gather a good team, as Mr. Jankovic managed to gather a good team, show responsibility, commitment, values and show that something can be done with responsibility and efficiency. My colleague, I forgot my last name, which he spoke before, he mentioned that he hoped that the Office of the Protector of Citizens wouldn't be just an office that received complaints. So, on behalf of that, otherwise I didn't mean to say it, I just have a few sentences to state. If we carefully read last year's report on what has been achieved, then we will see that more than 15,000 contacts have been made with Serbian citizens. Dear colleagues, we know that we are one frightened nation. We're so scared. Maybe we're not here, I've seen a lot of brave people around here, but the common people are very frightened. When we just show up in a situation where we have to defend our rights, that we have to deal with a system, it sometimes looks like one battle with windmills. We feel like Joseph Ka, Kafkin Josef Ka. Now that little man is the happiest that there is an institution that may only hold hope when he spends all the mechanisms he can use. I must again make 15 thousand contacts, three and a half thousand were written, and two thousand complaints have ended, my colleague. So they weren't just received, people weren't just complaining, they were doing something. According to his own initiative, the Citizens' Protector intervened as many as 184 times. For the first time in this congregation, and you know much better than I do, you know very well that by the citizens, a lot of material has come here that you have to take care of and vote on. I wouldn't read any further, we all have reports and we'll read it. I just want to point out once again, to read carefully again what has been achieved, to justify to all of us why we are giving a chance for another five years, which is that Mr. Jankovic and his team acted in the area of the rights of persons with disabilities, rights of children, gender equality, age discrimination and in all other areas of protection of human rights and freedom. I think that's enough. I think that's why we should all vote absolutely for Mr. Jankovic to get the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u843	Thank you. The word is from Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic, the mandated DSS promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u844	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how many hours of working here today, I'm very sorry I can't quite concentrate on what I wanted to talk about and what I planned to talk about tomorrow. I am very tired of listening here today to many who have talked about how they haven't changed in their time, and I know that you accidentally interrupted your mandate on July 23rd, so they haven't found it while they were in power or the need to extend their mandate to an institution that is important to the fragile democracy they left behind. I'm also perfectly clear how they took their heads off even to the directors of scientific institutions, and today I had to listen to the mourners here about how the governor is going to leave, so what are we going to do today? After all, I must say that as a DSS MP, I am very proud that I do not have to speak this way today, as the institution of the Protector of Citizens is also established for the term of office of Vojislav Kostunica. At the time, institutions were formed, institutions were strengthened, and independent regulatory bodies as are the bodies of the Citizens' Protectors, among other things. I wouldn't read what jurisdiction is under the Civil Protection Act. I wouldn't read what the Constitution says about it, of course fully agreed, but what I'm saying is that while I was preparing for today and this point today, I was actually thinking tomorrow's point, I read the 2011 report in detail, which you delivered to us, because you are one of the few who delivers these reports and delivers them in the way that you should. The report shows very well that the number of citizens who have spoken to you has increased significantly, that it is in percentages over 40, 68 if I remember correctly, and that can only mean three things for me. One of these things is good, and it applies to the fact that most citizens know their rights and when they are threatened, when they are injured, they know who they should address. That's good news, because mostly people who speak to us as messengers don't know their rights, they don't know who they're supposed to turn to, so we point them to you. On the other hand, I have to say that Serbia has one relatively well-established and formed legal framework for the protection of human rights, but the fact that, from the report I saw it, public officials and authorities are not always well-intentioned and always do not work in favour of, as you say, good administrations, and I would say ordinary citizen and man who addresses them. Then we come to the fact that there is a very large discrepancy between the state making really high standards in the field of human rights protection, and in practice these standards do not exist, or they are applied so low that we cannot talk about well-being. What's also positive for me is, of course, showing, that's the third thing I would point out, that citizens have confidence that you've worked objectively, that you've worked professionally and that they can turn to you, because if they didn't trust you, they wouldn't even talk to you. What I liked very much about the report you provided us is the fact, a few of the things you pointed out, so I'll quote them. You say that, looking at the laws passed in this assembly, you are in Parliament, to see certain shifts in the better and in certain areas, but I quote parts of the Reports – these shifts are not far enough to overcome the dissatisfaction of citizens who are causing illegalities and irregularities that are manifested in many places through corruption, partying, irresponsibility, non-organisation, indifference and indifference to carry out public affairs and public authority towards citizens, in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the law. Can we say more and better what we're talking about today, what condition, those who have gone, have left human rights in this country? I don't think so, although I think it's necessary to say and mention the great corruption that's been going on, huge affairs about it, but I think it's a little late to talk about it. The election passed on May 6th, the citizens said what they had to say and that's the best answer we all have to appreciate here. There are numerous rights of citizens who have remained dead in a letter thanks to this former government, which has declared itself a socially responsible government and who is reluctant to, ignorance perhaps, justified a truly comprehensive economic crisis, and has actually forgotten the number of rights it guarantees, a number of citizens' rights. This applies to both social rights and material rights, and economic rights, health care, treatment rights and all other rights. It is precisely, I must point out, that every state, or government that represents that state, is guaranteed to achieve all these rights of citizens in this country, in the country they live in. As human rights were respected at the time, I will best illustrate the data I have been able to find and which are fragrant to me, because I think they show all the sadness in which citizens live in this country, who think it's perfectly natural to work at a workplace and not receive pay, because they neither object, nor seek help from anyone and go to work neatly. He says that out of 1.7 million employees, 650 thousand of them are making a messy profit. Every six months, 325 thousand workers receive profits, approximately, and 51,000 workers never receive monthly earnings and go to work neatly. I ask the question - what does the state do, where are the human rights of these people who work and have the right to a fair fee? According to statistics in Serbia, anyone who receives eight and a half thousand and less than eight and a half thousand is poor. Of course, by looking up to Europe, we forgot to say that there is a minimum of 598 euros. It's eight and a half thousand in our house, so figure out how much it's on today's course, I haven't been following up on the governor's debate, so I couldn't remember. So, those in Serbia, who have less than eight and a half thousand, have 700 thousand, and 40,000 people in Serbia survive only because they feed on one meal in folk cuisines. There are fewer people's cuisines in this country than there should be. Seventy thousand families live on welfare. With eight and a half thousand, they can't even think about buying those minimum foods that the World Health Organization recommends is a minimum for one person, and don't let God think about the quality of those foods they buy. And they have some human rights. I am particularly concerned that 120,000 children live in that army of the poor. All the research done on this subject, and mentioned in your report, they say it's children from poor families, who don't eat fruit or meat, who don't know what candy and ice cream are, they don't buy books, they don't have toys, they don't get clothes and shoes. This state in the image of the government, the prime minister who left, has allowed itself the luxury of banning those children and pregnant women from being treated. Thanks to your intervention this problem, if that's even the problem has been solved. What was the problem? The problem was that the employers of parents and children or employers of these pregnant women did not pay for health insurance. Of course, our Ministry of Health, as it responds quickly and wisely, and the RZO has agreed that these people cannot verify the book, so they have no right to be treated. So the state, instead of forcing employers to pay contributions, which are required to pay, has come to declare pregnant women and children responsible because boasting employers never pay what they owe to the state. We passed the law, I see a lot of celebrities from last term, that only one push on the button anyone interested can see if the employer has paid contributions to social, health and pension. Our officers, who are so few, won't press buttons, so they don't know that information, and they don't know the services they need to make employers pay what they have to, so we decided that children and pregnant women would be collateral damage, because they in this group, which they call state, came to us not even need treatment. I repeat, I am personally grateful to you for having responded to this because children and pregnant women have a constitutionally guaranteed right to health care. The rate of poverty in children up to 14 years is over 13%, and those who are also highly endangered are pensioners, so those over 65, rural nursing households, unemployed and women. I've already said that 70,000 families live out of welfare, when we turn it into a number of members, of which around 190.000 people, it's just 700,000 people, just one third of the poor. What do those two thirds who have no income come from? Where are their human rights? A four-member family that gets social assistance can get at least 16,000, individually it's 6,500, and do you know how many families, how many individuals can't get social help and if they have all the rights, because they can't, for all kinds of reasons, deal with the Bahate bureaucracy, who won't go out to meet a man to help him get what belongs to him from the state, like he's giving his own. In Valjev, I know three such families, single mothers with underage children, I fight with them, and we can't deal with the Social Labour Centro, because they don't find it appropriate to meet people. I mentioned, of course, pensioners, as the most endangered group, I would like to say one more thing when it comes to them, say estimates that about 100,000 old people do not have regular incomes, and one quarter lives with incomes lower than this lower poverty limit of 8,500. About their rights, about only one thing, about my treatment rights, I can write a novel, only from this assembly, and I can write a novel from talking to those people who are looking for every possible way to get to the doctor, and then they're going on some list and they've been waiting five years for some intervention that's urgent, so in five years, whoever survives -- they're not everyone else was particularly important. An army of 500,000 people, who, for the term of office of the last government, are out of a job, I guess she has some human rights that we can talk about. I know when I'm telling you this, that you're thinking right now, so I can't do everything, of course you can't, and of course I understand that the state has come up with that fantastic flossula that reads -- the rights guarantee only to the maximum of existing resources. Well, now that that's a very precise criterion for me to be as precise as that, then that means today is as much for us as tomorrow is for us. On the other hand, the state has thus avoided that someone for bringing this number of inhabitants, means every tenth of the population in this position, corresponds to the court, not only morally. Morally, that means that those people who feel guilty about something, they do. Here as I see it and as has been said, long ago it was said, to whom unto morale it should go to church. The citizens' protector finally got the rooms on the muscles, finally formed the service and it was on the muscles and what I see from the number of these complaints and citizens who are addressing, if we don't change the legal framework of the citizens' protector's further work, and if we don't find the opportunity to increase the number of employees from the Citizens' Protectors, I'm afraid he won't be able to respond to the needs of the citizens anymore, and I think that service will be destroyed by us here who haven't found a way to help her live. On the other hand, both according to the Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. When you made electronic offices, which are a great thing and really help people to be in touch with you, I really expected to read somewhere and hear from you that you made them in Kosovo and Metohija. If people's rights are violated somewhere, then they break in Kosovo and Metohija. Honestly, please, find a way, and they also have the Internet, it's possible to communicate with them. Find a way to hear these people, help these people the same way other citizens in this part of Serbia can contact you. As Mr. Protector's trust and his service grew, the former government realized that he would not fix the misdemeanors of their destructive policies, and then he started to retaliate. One way was to avoid re-election, the other was what was frantic to me in January 2012 when the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens was requested, when the opinion of the Ministry of Justice came, then Ministers Mrs Malovic and her deputy assistants and all others who did not leave the media, who asked to reduce the jurisdiction of the institution of the Citizens' Protectors and make sure that he was exempt from the control of the work of the State Council of State and the High Council of Justice. Of course, it was immediately related to the fact that Mr. Jankovic said that the work of the High Council of the judiciary in the british composition was illegal, and that all decisions made in such a crumbling system were also illegal. The reduction of the authority of the human rights institution is a reduction of the human rights achieved in Serbia, which is also prohibited by the Constitution and other international agreements we have so advocated. But then a clear message was sent if all those in Serbia who are concerned with the protection of human rights do not protect their rights according to Snezana Malovic, then they will be punished so they will not be able to do their job in the next term. Thank God, it's been a while. Mr. Jankovic is here again today in front of us and I wish he could tell us something else about this new, latest bug-related scandal of nearly a million, or over a million citizens, if I am well counting 270 thousand times four, conditionally over a million, listening citizens without any judicial basis, because for me it is an amazing example of the haughtiness and abuse of state institutions for whose purposes you believe, one day you will also be revealed whose purposes are these. It's very important, so let's hear something about it because over a million people, one operator only activated an app that registers frequency with access, retained data, and that's over 270,000. What I mean is, we haven't changed, the Democratic Party of Serbia, we haven't changed our mind about Mr. Jankovic, we will also support the institution of the Protectors of the Citizens and of Sasa Jankovic himself, because as far as we're concerned, he built an independent and professional institution, which represents one of the really rare dams in violation of human rights and the unprofessional work of the Serbian State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u845	I thank Mrs. Markovic. The word is from Mr Miljenko Dereta, the author of the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u846	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are, i.e. The Liberal Democratic Party was one of three proposings in March of this year, when we tried to remind the former Assembly of the obligations prescribed by law, and the deadlines prescribed by the law for them to extend their mandate and elect a new Citizens' Protector. We did not escape this time from repeating our proposal, I must begin by saying that I am very sorry that the gentleman who spoke on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation did not mention what parties had proposed, but was satisfied with the formulation of several parties and the party proposed Mr Jankovic for re-election. I do not think it is important for the public to be aware of who the promoters are, because the consensus and general unity on Mr Jankovic's re-election is a unique case, among other things, because the promoters are from both the position and the opposition, as far as I know. Of course, the Liberal Democratic Party will support and vote in favour of Mr Jankovic's re-election, as a proposer. What I'm saying here is that a biography that's barely been read like that, that is. A quick read by Mr. Proposer, that's not why we'll support it. The reason for our support is the results Mr Jankovic achieved in the first five years of his term. That's the result the promoter didn't say anything about. These results, I think, were unexpected for many, because from the very beginning there was one reasonable doubt that independent institutions would indeed be, that they would be independent and independent, and that they would succeed in resisting the pressures that come from political parties. We have an example at this time that, apart from Mr Jankovic as the protector of citizens, and the trustee for free access to information and trustees for equality enjoy the full trust of citizens and see them as one of the few institutions that truly guarantee respect for the law and certain legal certainty. Some of the reasons are already mentioned here, i.e. some of the results Mr. Jankovic has achieved. I won't repeat them, but some of them I think deserve to be underlined. It is, above all, a question of child protection, i.e. children's health care. According to Mr Jankovic's intervention, children were certified health books and the constitutional right of children to health care was respected. As far as I know, Mr Jankovic also tried to protect workers who had not been paid health care and asked for the punishment of employers who do not fulfil their obligations, not those who are working on it to obtain their right. Unfortunately, the employer we're talking about was in a large number of cases a state. It was the state who did not pay itself for health care, and then tried to punish those who were certainly not responsible for it. Of course, it was not a problem for the state at that time to inform one stamper and those people, but it certainly remains a question, I have no doubt that Mr Jankovic will also deal with this in his next term, which needs to be resolved by law and which should certainly be asked differently than is now. I must say that Mr. Jankovic largely protected the rights of all minorities, not only national minorities, but, let's say, LGBT populations, by pleading for their right, among other things to gather and to freely express their sexual definitions. I think it's very important... I do not expect Mr. Ristanovic to behave differently, but rather as he is now in the Assembly. So, the protection of all minority groups is the principle Mr. Jankovic advocated and, I am confident, will continue to advocate. I would like to remind you that Mr Jankovic raised the issue of the Information Law before the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court has assessed as unconstitutional certain members of that law and that, at least as announced, the same law for which one member of the current coalition was highly advocated, the same member of the coalition, has been abolished. We can therefore attribute to Mr Jankovic that he has contributed to the freedom of information in Serbia. I'll remind you, I found this on the Citizens' Protector website, that the Serbian Citizens' Protector has won the so-called "Serbs". And the UN status in the field of protection of human rights. It's the highest recognition one human rights institution in one country can get. Any other choice, apart from Mr. Jankovic, I think it would greatly compromise that status. I would like to remind you that he is also highly appreciated in the International Association of the Simeons and that the model that this institution has been set up in Serbia at the moment is being replicated in some other countries where the institution is only in the post-war. As far as I know, Azerbaijan is at stake, and even someone is talking about Russia. What is particularly in Mr Jankovic's work is his sincere and consistent co-operation with civil society organisations. Namely, a consultation that is constantly being conducted with organisations that are directly involved in the protection of human rights is a prerequisite for successful work. I have to do a little digression here and say that even in the exposé of Mr. Prime Minister and the Ministry Act, no mention is made, nor are civil society organisations mentioned, which is one of the standards that determines the degree of democracy today in every society. The fact that Mr. Jankovic respects the organisation of civil society, respects the right of citizens and the expertise of citizens on certain issues is encouraging and I have no doubt that this co-operation will continue and further deepen in the future. Undoubtedly, the results achieved by the Citizens' Protector are the reasons for a consensus that I hope will exist in the day of the vote. I think there are some other reasons that will define the vote of some of the parties. One is that the reputation and trust that the Citizens' Protector has acquired in the public so much that the non-election and non-continuance of his mandate would certainly trigger a public reaction which, at this moment, neither this new government nor this new regime, I do not know what I would call it, is not necessary. In some ways, a better picture of this regime is provided than would be shown by the fact that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights has been abolished. Something that certainly harms the development and respect for human rights in Serbia will be compensated by this act of re-election by Mr Jankovic. Another reason that might be attributed to this is that after this debate, which was the way it was, about narrowing down the independence and independence of one institution, supporting another independent and independent institution is slightly improving the general picture of those who propose these laws and who will bring them in. When this institution was formed, as far as I know, one estimate was made as many employees in Serbia, given the possible number of complaints to be filed. At that time, the European evaluator pointed to a number of around 150 people. At this point, as far as I know, again from the site, at this point, 60 people are employed in the Office of the Protector of Citizens, 30 of which deals with complaints, and 30 are part of the administration that such an institution must possess. These 30 people and Mr. Jankovic certainly cannot meet all the needs and demands of the citizens. This assembly and this government, this regime, will have a wonderful opportunity to put on the law's supplemental agenda within a very fast period, as soon as possible, i.e. Amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens and thus show their sincere commitment to enable this service to develop, to enable its successful work. The fact that, as stated by the colleague, the number of complaints has increased by around 40% in the past year alone, as it speaks of the trust received by the Ombudsman institution, at the same time talking about the situation in the state administration, that it is so bad that it requires radical reforms and a radically different attitude towards citizens. I also expect that through the amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the number of employees, particularly those who deal with complaints from citizens, will be allowed to increase. Finally, I must say that I, as well as others, regret that this debate is being held in the eleventh hour of our stay here, which is certainly in conflict with the Labour Act that prescribes working hours, but on that second time. What I am afraid of is the fact that someone in this system of ours is to this extent independent and to this extent independent and to this extent consistent in the application of all the rights that the law has prescribed for him, can at some point disturb the ruling coalition and hope that no law will come before this assembly, in some foreseeable future, which will amend the Law on the Protector of Citizens and allow for a quick change, without respect for the current procedures. So, I repeat, the LDP will vote and support Mr Jankovic and his re-election. That's what we suggested in March, we proposed now, and it will absolutely be a great pleasure to press "yes" when the day of the vote comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u847	I thank Mr. Deretti. The word has been approved by the party's proposed United Regions of Serbia, Mr Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jankovic, it's good to have this day. There's no reason to flatter you, we've heard so many good grades about your work, but there is one warning, that's why this time they're going to vote all the parliamentary groups, the United Regions of Serbia, of course, but you've heard a few experienced MPs say what all this can mean. To begin with, it should mean that when one institution is built in a way that is necessary to build institutions, persistently, patiently, without too much spinning, false affairs, great passions, threats, already constantly with arguments, when the results are shown, then it is possible that everyone feels the need, I do not doubt, that it is sincere, but that everyone feels the need to support the existence of an institution, and more than that, that they support a person who is headed, probably because of what is most often missing in establishing institutions in Serbia, and this is a personal example. Why am I saying this? It's a hard way to go. Those who do not remember, because in Serbia often people of their misery do not arrive to follow, or do not consider it important, or simply forget, it was necessary, in due time, to send a public letter to the President of the Republic of Serbia, then it was Mr Tadic, and to the Prime Minister, then it was necessary, Mr Kostunica, that the law should arrive and be supported by their parliamentary groups, which had been completed a year earlier, and never arrived in the Assembly. I am also using this opportunity to publicly apologize to the Minister of Police, who called me by phone, Mr Jocic, and he said, "I'm sorry, please, it's not because of me, but in the proposal, which the experts did, there is one member that we cannot achieve, and regarding the obligation to Aki communicator, in negotiations with the European Union. Why am I pointing out this example? He says - I would have sent a bill before, since the task force was working at the same time as the draft law on police. Because people often do not know what it means to negotiate with the European Union. Worse still, often negotiators don't know, so they think they need to overwrite or listen to something. That member was just about to choose the Nautilus. It is common, since we have been puzzled in this discussion today, when Mr Varga presented examples of what is written in the rules for the already existing members and already existing central banks, when there is a tradition of an institution for countries that are in the European Union, the majority solution becomes a rule that is recommended. You who negotiate must know the situation in your own country, and simply indicate what is possible to advance towards values, and what simply is not possible and should be eliminated. The member said that whoever is proposed for the Manchester, it is 2004 at 2005, should have ten years of experience in protecting citizens' rights, but in the context of a job he was doing in the state. When experts were invited, it was said, I personally said, or I did not say, as I have not now, in these 12 years, I did not speak about individual people's objections, but there was simply a clear awareness that the state did not respect human rights during that period. That doesn't have to prove it. If you expect people working in the country to be chosen now, and then a solution has been approached, which is of course accepted by experts from the European Union, which is that experience should be in the first election of five years, and all of the following can be ten years. Why am I saying this? Because we're going to get along very easily today. Whenever there is success, political parties are even more luxuriant than everyone else, and everyone goes where success is. Well, here, it's been a success in these troubled years, when so much has been unsuccessfully trying to create either intentionally corrupt or poorly selecting images and unspeakable solutions or solutions that have not been realized. Remember the solutions from a whole series of laws, which are indicated, so they can't be applied. Not to remind you of those solutions that have not been pointed out. The law on the election of the president, as you know, in fact, you probably don't know, but with two members who have been adopted, it makes it impossible for a woman to be chosen and her rights to be preserved. She can't be elected president. We'll make that right, of course. When I tell me, I mean the MPs. It won't be hard for me to suggest this change that eliminates inability. The more important thing is something else, which is that in the next year we managed to pass the laws, but it was not possible to choose the Manchester, because even then, as now, political parties, MP groups were supposed to agree. I suppose you all know that I tend to take care of what I say and keep all the paperwork. I am very pleased to keep an envelope in which your biography, Mr. Jankovic, has been disagreed with by some of the speakers announced today. It's natural. My God, it's important that after a year and a half of persuasion, perseverance is established by an institution, you're elected, but that's where we come to what's most important. Please, since several times the discussion that has been held about another institution today has been mentioned, of course they are incomparable. Language yes, they're both independent and they both have a personality with great powers, but let's simplify. It's clear to all of us that the public doesn't have any money, and the National Bank does. I guess that explains everything. What is more important, in the next period, is the quality for which I want you to acknowledge, Mr. Jankovic, you have not done what is most often causing good ideas or institutions to fail which have shown the importance of their functioning in other countries. You have not tried impossible for political or personal attraction and thus create the impression that the institution is powerless. On the contrary, you chose carefully what is a good example, you carefully sought out allies in it, at one time, and I congratulate many who also participated in it in the National Assembly. Sometimes. This is also mentioned earlier in the work of the civil sector, sometimes and in certain, just the representatives of those executive authorities most often and violated the right and slowly showed the results how important and successful the institutions are. It is easy to point out in Serbia the first plan of personality, easily resorting to different spins, attractions, affairs, but the ultimate result is that an institution is rocking and that we end up losing confidence as an institution in which we trust. Secondly, what I hope will serve all those who truly care about building the institutions of the state. We are now sitting in a home, which, as you know, only in three convocations, has gambled a whole series of standards that have been put in place with torment, and even more ridiculously, I have listened to the last days of MPs who, not even knowing that these standards existed in this home, they call it civilizational fluids that we haven't reached. What's important is modesty. The modesty of a emerging institution, which does not have a sufficient number of employees, which, of course, does not initially have adequate conditions. It is very important that this institution constantly shows that there is no need to deceive itself in any way by prejudice that our rights exist for all of us. You have continued to educate those whose rights are violated, which are rights, and those who harm them. What does that injury consist of? We have often seen ourselves in the administration in what is called bureaucracy, that most of the violation of rights, people on the other side of the counter, as is commonly said, rests on the fact that the right neither knows nor understands nor does the one who represents it and violates it. In doing so, you've shown, and that's what I call modesty, and your own willingness to learn as an institution, to admit publicly that you can't, that there's something prejudice, a guy's right to work. Listen, I want you to have an ombucman provide you with the right to work. Instead of wasting time explaining that he can't do it, he just finds it and then he does everything he can and it's already pointed out which are really examples, to show where the rights are being violated and the employees are being violated. Who breaks them, and sometimes, as they say, "sapien ti sat," it's going to be smart sometimes, and it's enough to conclude that someone's producing the right and breaking that right. Typical are decisions that have always been made in half, so let's say, every year some government, don't flatter yourself, all of them governments have done, decided to link the work experience for the previous year because they haven't paid for God's business owners. To the side that the state often owns, but you would expect the government to then make a decision and about how the person who was supposed to control it will be punished. Because anyone who has a firm knows that if there's no political warrant, you don't have a way to say two months without paying your salary unless you've paid your contributions. It's that kind of hypocrisy. Don't worry, they'll be waiting for you in the future. Well, someone said, "This is a small and smoke screen," which all the MP groups will vote on. By the way, do not worry, we have seen that what everyone votes for is often either unreal or many do not view it as too important, but consider it useful to vote for it. I'm confident you should vote for yourself. It's because of the fact that from the way you performed in both public and those you addressed, you actually think you're just starting one job, that there's a big part of that job coming up. This is halftime. It is a great pleasure, and I say it honestly, that many who doubted or simply came from political habits. You remember that MPs who have a political habit that if someone suggested something not bad to be against so get out of the O.R., they came out of the O.R. when they were to vote to continue living in the country they live in. Then they sent an apology and said, "We are confused." One who is easily confused about party policy is hardly able to build a serious state institution, so it is precisely the success of this current consensus that there is hope that we may learn how to actually make institutions and that there are priorities, something that is a party policy and something that is not a party policy, but an institution that each of us will have to rely on today or tomorrow. Finally, in several cases in the previous period, you have received all-out assistance both from international official institutions and from institutions in Serbia and from representatives of civil society. What I especially appreciate is that you're very often, not always, because one of the most rude things is when you give someone credit for the work to list what they didn't do, as if they had a thousand lives ahead of them and that they could accomplish anything. Just tell me if he's done enough and what he's done. So, you are often, not always those same organisations or the principle behind which they were standing, if you felt that you also violated one of the basic human rights, also criticised. Of course, citizens can't fool themselves. The public defender is, above all, an address where they can find out something, something they can learn, and maybe they can get help. Sometimes creative solutions have to be found, I think someone pointed it out. You found those creative solutions, those books. Unobtrusive, but it's much more important that all of you together, you'll have five years ahead of you, certainly it'll be longer than it'll last, and certainly longer than the government, whatever. I sincerely hope that everything that has disappointed you of the Ombudsman, not personally, will succeed as soon as possible for you to present and impose on all of us in the coming period. Because that is the only way we will succeed in establishing other institutions in a way that they will not be the subject of politics, but be the subject of our real and sincere trust. Thank you again personally. Thank you again personally. Thank you to all those who, in this discussion and proposing or formally, or including this proposal, have allowed us to have that chance, because if we look back only in the previous year around us, we will see how much of what we believed to be solid, stable and that it will protect us in the meantime no longer or exist, or we have contributed to its destruction ourselves. Thank you very much, that's what I had to tell you tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u849	Thank you very much. The word is by MP Miletic Mihailovic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u850	President-in-Office, Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my personal pleasure, as well as the great satisfaction of the SPS parliamentary group that tonight here in the National Assembly we have a high degree of agreement on what the previous work of the Citizens' Protectors is, in particular, Mr Sasa Jankovic, who was in that function and that, in fact, this high degree of consent is heading towards his re-election. So, I am obliged to stress on behalf of the SPS, since it was not previously said, and she herself suggested that Sasa Jankovic be re-elected as the Protector of Citizens. So, this institution, which, I say, is very young in our country, in our society, has started some history by passing laws here in the National Assembly, and then in 2000, by choosing the first Simeon, or Protector of the citizens of Sasa Jankovic. Today, when we talk about some results and these visible and good results of the Citizens' Protectors, this success, of course, is attributed to him and the professional service, to the entire institution, but I could certainly say that this credit belongs in some way to this National Assembly that has succeeded, and we have heard from previous presentations, not so easily to the establishment and beginning of a very significant institution, a democratic institution that has a great tradition in other countries. Since two centuries ago and something more in Sweden, it has been known, as well as many countries in Europe, even outside Europe since 1970. It has been shown that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is very important and important for our society and for our country, for our citizens. It is so important that if we could compare it as a thirsty country of rain and, for these reasons, we also have the satisfaction of citizens on the other hand who have addressed the institution of the Protector of Citizens, and that an increasing number of citizens have been addressed to the address of the Protector of Citizens in order to achieve some of their rights. Of course, we as a country that is now in transition and that has lived and in the previous one system, we cannot boast either of these significant democratic achievements, nor of those relations and relations in which the state or its bodies are aware of everything that should be an adequate relationship with others for whose benefit they are doing, above all I think of the citizens. The principles of good administration that should be ideal in the functioning of the state, i.e. the authorities of the administration and all public authorities to meet the needs of citizens are therefore discussed. Today, we often have in Serbia the actual functioning of state authorities and public authorities according to the principles of a strict administration, which shows one power, often and boast at a certain point, unenlightened at certain times and, as someone said, it is not clear to us what their role is and how we should treat the needs of citizens. Often in such a situation, we have the thesis to represent a citizen who has come to exercise his right, to point out that something cannot be realized, that it is very difficult, that in any other or next attempt to find inability to achieve what made the party come to that counter, instead of having another approach, another principle, to find a way to achieve it, to show one preconcession and one desire to meet the particular need of a party that has come to achieve its right. So it takes a long time to come up with one way of thinking, one such a life philosophy, but certainly the introduction of the Guardians into our system is one start that encourages and will certainly affect the change of these relationships and the creation of a larger culture and different treatment of state authorities and its representatives towards the needs of citizens in achieving human freedoms and their rights. Reading this report shows what has already been said that the number of promises from year to year has increased, that the number of resolved cases has also increased. The number of contacts that emerged from the needs of citizens is increasing and higher year by year. We have one discrepancy between what is a normative future and this normative standard that today has the Guardian of Citizens against what is reality and what is practice and that there is actually a need to expand what potentials are in achieving the role and work of the Protector of citizens as an important institution. The Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly support in the next step and in the next period, when it comes to the order and to improve these normatives in terms of creating one greater capacity of this institution with all the accompanying services so that the Protector of Citizens can come out stronger and better to meet and contribute to the protection and improvement of the freedoms and rights of our citizens. Today we also have a circuit ombudsman, and in some places there are protectors of citizens at a lower level in local self-government. It should be thought in this direction whether the expansion of this service should go towards the deconcentration of this institution, which exists as an institution based in Belgrade, with the opening of offices, as some of us already have, in cities and other local self-government, primarily in municipalities, and then to develop this functional link between citizens' protectors acting with a global plan, compared to those who would work in local self-government. This is certainly necessary, because the authorities themselves, and when I say power, I mean, above all, public authorities, who have this tendency of rape, separation and distance in their relationship and behaviour towards the users of their services, or in relation to citizens, and constantly need to point out that. In addition to what was the activities of the Citizens' Protector, which was based on what were the complaints of citizens, as well as the taking of certain measures and activities by its own initiative, nothing less mattered his authority of advisory action, in terms of prevention and education. This issue of prevention and education is a very important function and moment in the work of the Protector of Citizens, because it is really necessary in our society a large and broad education, such as those who are able to provide certain services, i.e. to give and to exercise certain public powers, and on the other hand, education of wider masses of citizens who use these rights. Of course, not only can the Protector deal with the issue of education. This is one more complex problem that should be considered and established from both the aspect of the education system and which would contribute to what should be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or, let it be far from us, but we must see this goal in front of ourselves, and that is certainly one higher degree and culture in dealing with citizens, one high culture in respecting the needs of citizens for their freedoms and rights and one prejudiciality at a high level by the authority of the administration, or those who give public authority, in relation to citizens. I would only mention that in what needs to be supported is certainly, in addition to what is an increase in the capacity of the Protector of citizens in terms of increasing the number of employees, professional people, deconcentration of that body, etc., but this needs to be regulated by law. It should also point to what was this very difficult start in creating these fundamental needs from the beginning, in creating and obtaining from the state of spatial conditions, as well as other material conditions. There is an impression, not only of the Citizens' Protector, but also of other institutions that have this regulatory and independent status and role, they have been very difficult to begin with and it seems that the state has somehow made it easier to establish a certain normative, legal act that regulates the area without creating adequate conditions for the start of work, at least the elementary ones. The state has been a bit and silly, or even hesitated, in what is the creation of these legal conditions for one full and true activity and work, in a specific case of the Protector of Citizens, as well as other independent institutions that are as important today as this one. Of course, I'm not going to do anything special with this question. We already have good moves in this direction from the very beginning, but we should continue in that direction and give full support to the further development of these institutions, including the citizens' protector institutions. I am not convinced that in this people's assembly, because there is a high consensus on Mr. Sasa Jankovic's re-election as the Protector of Citizens, that one of the parliamentary groups is doing so for some luxurial reasons, in terms of political benefit, which is why it gives him support. I think there is a high awareness in this people's assembly, both between the position and the opposition, that there is indeed a need for such an institution to bridge that polarisation, which is often and unconscious in some cases between the authorities and the citizens. It's a very painful and long-term process that should be supported. The National Assembly will certainly continue to support such an effort to further develop and advance conditions for the work of the Citizens' Protectors. This will result even more in the coming period, with its service and associates, and this will be the results of this national assembly in which we decide today. To conclude, given that the SPS has proposed Sasa Jankovic to re-election, when we vote on Saturday, we will all support his election, in one great hope that he will continue as he has worked in the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u851	I thank Mr. Mihajlovic. I give my word to the authorised DS representative, Mrs Gordani Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u852	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure today and tonight to speak at the National Assembly session and leave your words in the stenogram, at the same time because, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to inform the MPs that we are one of Sasa Jankovic's motions for a choice for the Guardian of Citizens, but equally important because of the topic to be spoken about during this session, when we talk about the reasons prot et counter that anyone, in this case, Sasa Jankovic, is elected or re-elected as the guardian of citizens, because it is about human rights and freedoms. Whenever the topic of human rights and freedoms is, then very carefully measure your words that remain in the stenograms of the session, for witnesses who will watch us participants in a short or long time and appreciate whether we were able to be human. When I say if we could be human, then I mean, first of all, the function of the Protector of the Citizens, who belongs to him by law. It is that, when any of us citizens, through the will of another institution that appoints us or selects us, our usual dictionary is told – it gets a power outflow into the brain, so that it harms those who at the position of public affairs, then for a very long time in the European institutions, and in Serbia, in particular, there was no one but the institution of the Protectors of citizens to be equally supported, equally challenged by all those who have the power of power in the brain and of all those who have damage to it, do something to explain to everyone what human freedoms and rights are and that we do not have powers, large enough, to whom they dare to violate other people's freedoms and rights. That's what's going on. Of course, people are also a continuous violation of human rights, examples of poor administration, instead of good, there are in every society and in every country, as well as in Serbia. That is why this session is important, and it is therefore important that when the report is completed, of course, the undeniably elected Saša Jankovic, for the next year, we also have a session in the National Assembly, as we had, through committees and through public hearings, we listen carefully to the conclusions and recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors and we follow these recommendations. The real protection of freedom and justice begins when all those who think they have power in their hands understand that nothing is a cobage and that can't just be said and that it doesn't matter if it's done and that every word that's unspeakable, and that endangers people's freedoms and rights, is a very expensive word in both domestic and international public, and that the word spoken can't be withdrawn, you don't rule it anymore. This is how we should be careful when we say the words and when we address those same words to others who rightly ask us to do a job that we have been elected to at any public service in society, and in the state, at any level of local government, regional authorities, duchy authorities, city authorities, National Assembly, ministries, all those parts of the state administration where we are obliged to think about what kind of comment the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, will have, if any of those who are users of state administration services have a problem with someone who is in a place where that service is to be provided. It is therefore important to discuss the election, and therefore it is important to have a session with the debate on the Citizens' Protector's Report. The second thing that makes this session important is that through the example of the first election and the current re-election of Sasa Jankovic, it is possible as a paradigm to monitor difficulties, and beauty, and obstacles, and incentives to build institutions in a changing society, such as Serbia. The first thing is that the Civil Protection Institution and the Law were one of the laws that allowed interparty co-operation. The Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, and the National Assembly called between 2004 and 2008, had an initiative with those who had the ruling majority for the four years, but it was not the point. The thing was that there was awareness that on some topics we could have success as a society, as an institution, only if there was interpartisan co-operation. One of these topics is the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the other was the Law on the State Auditor, the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Resolution on Joining the European Union. I was lucky, so I took part in all of the topics that were the subject of interpartisan co-operation. What's the good news, from the law that allowed us to choose Sasha Jankovic for the first time? Removing open enmity, which comes first out of ignorance, and then encourages from lack of skills what it means to decide on public affairs, which many of us have when we first come to institutions, is simply removed, if previous enemies should be removed, previous people who do not appear in each other's hallway, I could never understand it, simply pass a man beside you and say no good day. From such a one condition, therefore, the issue of the adoption of the Law on the Protector of Citizens has enabled interparty co-operation. Why does it matter? Because the original decision was to choose the Guardian of Citizens with a two-thirds majority, and with the sure majority for the first time was to see what we could even agree on. If we can't agree on the state of human freedom and rights, then what can we do about it? If we can't agree on an auditor, I'm sorry that Rade Obradovic is here, because he's responsible for that part of the job, if we can't agree that it's a common benefit for someone to control public finances, then what can we agree on? The paradigm was because the process was difficult, but it was still running once. The paradigm is also because I'm going to share the information that I have on what it looks like when you were first elected to protect the citizens, because I know for a fact that it seems to be that someone who has received the support of the National Assembly comes out not at this address, but at the address of King Milan 14, and starts from nothing. That's why the paradigm that changes Serbia can only tell those he knows will be pleased, I've got the support of the National Assembly, I'm going to establish an institution of the Protectors of Citizens. If only that moment, which Sasa Jankovic had in mind, for that institution, I might not mention it, but it is for each of the first-time institutions. It's the biggest challenge. In 20 years, this assembly, where I will chair as the oldest national MP after some elections, will choose a Protector of citizens and when they ask him where you will go, and he says, that's where my address is when they ask him – and what you will do, and he says, it's always been that way. I will say to him, "My chicken, it wasn't like that," but Sasa Jankovic started it all over again, so he did it with many obstacles. It is a valuable pioneer in institutions. What else is a paradigm when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens? The inability to really reach and inform as widely as possible, but the obvious will to first be about what is the responsibility of the Protector of citizens to share information with the first users and to create channels of communication with those who are executive authority or at any level of public authority. With how much difficulty that went on, I know it a little bit, and Mr. Sasa Jankovic is very detailed. How discouraging it is, from time to time, any time you have an obstacle to something happening to everyone's logical human rights as prisoners. It's perfectly logical that the Citizens' Protector follows how and whether human rights of prisoners are respected. We all understand that somewhere it says, we're all in favor of doing it, but obstacles exist, so there are, for the simple reason that no one has been in the process of protecting the human rights of prisoners before. The rights of the child, the extension of what is the staff, which is the service, specialising, submitting reports, dialogue with MPs in the National Assembly, the intervention on amendments, in laws, perfectly presented Serbia in international institutions, never with a perception that would be different from facts, rather than showing a valuable person of Serbia in international institutions when it comes to protecting human rights. I'm absolutely sure, always dissatisfaction, because the result when the day is over and you get out on the street can't be the result that gives you the satisfaction that the big deal is done. This is the torment of the first institutions and pioneers who make institutions, no matter where they are. They're doing a lot of work and a lot of results, and you don't get the impression that the process has really moved far enough and deep enough that it can't go back. This election is proof that the process is safe, when it comes to the institution of the Protector of Citizens, and that all those small and large, intentional and non-intentional parts of the process have passed, from the institution not being present in the Constitution, over the lack of proper space, over the absence of conversants, through all kinds of misunderstandings that are in this mandate, fortunately behind Sasa Jankovic. What would I like to see for the next five years? I would like to see meetings of the National Assembly, where Sasa Jankovic's report will be discussed, and where will Sasa Jankovic be asked what you did with the recommendations? What you've done with the conclusions that the board has made and what we have here. I would like to see special sessions that are possible under our Rules of Procedure at the request of any parliamentary group, where in three hours of time, a common form, such as parliamentary issues, would search the state of protection of human rights and freedom, awareness of how significant it is here in the National Assembly. I will be pleased that when a day of voting is set and with great probability that most likely all parliamentary groups, probably then all MPs present at the voting day, will vote for the election that Sasa Jankovic will be able to go outside the National Assembly building this time and have an office and phone and chair and everything he did not have in the first election and that he and his associates created alone. What I'd like to see strategically is that the Citizens' Protector, in collaboration with the National Assembly, is proposing to us that we look like some future network. Since the Institute of the Protector of Citizens is not hierarchical and how to communicate with the Protector of Citizens, this is either the chosen or the Vojvodian Simeon, or the Protector of the Citizens or the locals, that it depends first on all of you who are well-evaluated, to worry about people being violated to the least extent possible by human rights. So, let's see in the discussions whether through round tables, whether through listening, what that network would look like, so that in talking to you, as with someone we choose, we feel that there will be something in each part of Serbia that involves basic human freedoms and rights. Of course, I would like it to be louder and clearer, in collaboration with other institutions, trustees of equality to develop a theme on the role and position of women in Serbia, regardless of whether they are in public affairs, whether they are in the sector of discrimination, whether they are in health discrimination, but simply to use your future mandate to look closely at the context of each of the groups addressing you for protection. I will be happy to vote in the voting day and with the same pleasure to participate in all future debates, debates, debates, everything we will do together to respect human rights and freedoms, so that awareness of how important it was is truly achieved in Serbia. It won't be easy for you, this is a rare case that the entire assembly has no dispute about voting yes or yes to vote against and it's sometimes much harder than if you fight 126 out of 250. I also have no doubt that there is no one among us who will direct you to the obstacle of future work, so that when we listen to the 2017 report, we will see many white pages where problems are now in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u853	I thank Mrs. Comic. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a single search, reported a word in writing with a number of MPs, submitted MPs' groups of New Serbia, LDP, URS, DSS, SPS and SNS. Time is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure according to the size of the groups. The first is Mrs Zlata Djeric of New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Jankovic and the Honorable citizens of Serbia. It is truly a shame that this transfer of citizens could not be seen at a more appropriate time at a time when they are indeed in a much larger number following the session of the National Assembly, because what happened in Serbia, today at this point in the agenda, is flat alchemy. Mr. Sasa Jankovic, he succeeded, in a folk language, to reconcile the horns in the bag and to make us all unique about the Citizens' Protectors' Proposal in the next term. New Serbia has joined in supporting Mr. Sasa Jankovic and will certainly support his election in the voting day. It may be the only item of the agenda, the only vote that will hold an undivided assembly and that is the hope for Serbia that both the position and the opposition can unite around something that is really worth it. I thank Mr Saša Jankovic first of all that we had the opportunity to recognize both his honesty and self-absorbed work, and when we talked about his annual report, which he really did in one qualified and very quality form, handed over to this people's assembly, I remember that I also said that we wanted everyone, above all, Mr Saša Jankovic, to be the only civil servant who didn't earn his salary, and that his report would be very thin, because it would mean that he had no business in Serbia and that Serbia sent the country as we all want and what we all want. Of course, it's a long way to go and we don't have to give up on that trip, we don't have to give up on the citizens' protection in this country as little work as possible. So his report, which was high-quality, unfortunately very large, says that in Serbia, much had to be done right in the Civil Rights Protector's office. In addition, he has submitted close to 30 specific reports, and he has indeed submitted many different initiatives to this House around each legislative proposal, as well as to point out to those members who could be controversial and in some way damage to someone's rights. We're grateful to him for that. Sometimes there wasn't enough hearing, but his efforts were certainly recognized. What is worth mentioning in the work of the citizens' protectors, which is why New Serbia will support the election of Mr Sasa Jankovic to be again in the next term for the next five years, is certainly the fact that he has maintained confidence in the institution that he represents, and thus obliged all of us to restore trust in the institutions. With today's unique performance and position and opposition, it has made us on such an important subject that at least at one point we all feel like winners. His job in the next term won't be easy, I think he'll even find it much harder to justify this huge trust. I think he'll do as he's done so far with the honesty and self-absorbed he's done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u855	I thank Mrs. Djeric. The word is Mrs Radmila Gerov of the Liberal Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u856	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Jankovicu. I am pleased that the Liberal Democratic Party in 2007 proposed you to be the patron of the citizens. First of all, considering that as an independent state body, you should protect citizens, all their rights and control of the work of the state administration. And indeed, as our MP group, we have worked all the time to ensure adequate conditions so that you can perform that function. We have also tried to get you a number of deputies you now have and today we feel that this number is insufficient, as well as the number of workers you have in the service, so that you can do your job even better. In today's debate, we had the opportunity to hear from one SNS MP, that the SNS in 2007 did not vote for your election. Of course not because it didn't exist then, then it was called the Serbian Radical Party. I believe that in the day of voting, the MPs of that party will vote for you. In March of this year, we wanted to make a suggestion that you should re-elected to the function you perform. We have also done this before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. For what? First of all, because we believe that you, Mr. Jankovic, are an institution. You're an institution in this country. You, with your work, with honesty, with your energy, and when you had no working conditions, were ready to fight for the rights of the citizens of this country. You Serbian citizens have confidence, and Serbian citizens find it very difficult to gain confidence. They trust you, and I'm really glad, and the international public, as well as institutions like the UN. That's why I think we were right in the Liberal Democratic Party when we proposed to you in 2007 for the Protector of Citizens, especially because you've been doing your job safely and responsibly all this time. I know the number of objects you've had in the process hasn't been small. Unfortunately, I can say that I think you'll have more work to do in the next period and I'm sorry about that. I would like you, as your colleagues, to come with a report that there are no more problems in Serbia. Unfortunately, I don't think that's how it's gonna be. Since you're here, I'd like to point out one problem, i.e. on an e-mail you received five days ago, which concerns discrimination against women in the Borski District. Perhaps because of the large number of items you received, you did not pay attention, but this is not about one person, but about all the women living in the territory of the Bora County in four municipalities, it is about Bor, Majdanpek, Negotin and Kladovo. Namely, there is no service in the Borski region related to the treatment of sterility, as well as those related to the treatment of the cause of multiple spontaneous abortions. Patients from the Borski District are forced to work all necessary analyses in the nearest institution to do so, which is Belgrade. The Bora branch of the Health Services Fund doesn't allow patients to be treated here at the expense of the fund. All the other branches, I checked today, the Zaječar branch, Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, all such patients point to treatment. The medical commission in Negotin has a member of the commission, a doctor from Bora, that is Mr Ljubisa Tikic. The whole commission in Kladovo is from Bor, with the same man in charge. They interpret and explain why women refuse to treat such a treatment, that there is the opinion of the Belgrade Fund's branch that these institutions have not shown the requested services individually, but only collectively in their work plan, from which they draw the conclusion that the services do not go to the burden of the fund. Women living in Belgrade or other cities can do all these services with the direction of their elected doctor, they don't even need a medical commission. The other women in other regions, I'll take our neighboring Zajcar County, no problem getting instructions from the commission. Only the Bora branch of the Health Services Fund doesn't allow women to pass the medical commission. In particular, by e-mail a few days ago, Nadežda Todorovic from Negotina, who had four spontaneous abortions and lost her baby in the eighth month of pregnancy. No one referred her to any possible cause, although she is 43 and has no child. She carried out all the necessary checks, came here to the Clinical Centre of Serbia, went to Professor Aleksandr Ljubic, and based on his report on the requested analyses, she went to her selected doctor, who made a proposal for the commission. The Commission, of course, refused because of such an interpretation of the Belgrade branch. I believe this is a direct discrimination against women living in the Borski District. I don't know how much you know, first of all, the salaries in the Borski County are twice as much as in large parts of Serbia. Natality in the Borski District is among the smallest in Serbia. A large number of women can't naturally carry out their offspring, and I really don't understand why only women from the Borski County, and that's not just the case of this lady, there's a lot of them, they can't possibly get these basic checks from the Borska branch, the health care fund, that is. In fact, they are constantly rejected by the commission, although they have paid all necessary insurance. This clearly states that women in Negotin and Kladovo have been denied the right to do these examinations, to go into out-of-body fertilization and become mothers. It violated their right, even if they had money, they were discriminated against again because they do not want to be treated in private clinics and it is really wrong that other funds, except for the Borska branch, all such cases of the commission approve, women come to Belgrade without a problem. We only have such a case with the Borski branch of the health care fund in Bora. Believe me, it's not a small number of women. A few more women from Negotina will address you these days, you will be approached by the women of Kladova and I ask you, I say, you've had a lot of cases, you haven't paid attention to this, but if we want to talk about increasing the birth rate, then it is necessary to determine why the Borska branch of the Health Fund is treating women from the Borski District. Furthermore, I want to say that the LDP will support you as the Protector of the Citizens, because you have shown it by your work so far, as I have already said. We have complete confidence in your expertise and your willingness to fight for human rights and your courage to, when you consider that human rights or that the state body has damaged citizens, say that no matter who is in power in this country. That's why I think you're going to have a lot more cases and we're certainly going to stand up in this assembly to increase the number of workers in your service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u857	Thank you. The word is Mrs Ana Novkovic of the United Regions of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u858	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Jankovic, the establishment of the Civil Protection Institution justified its existence and showed that one such institution was really necessary to our society. Since this institution is involved in the control of the application of laws and in the control of the work of the state authorities of the administration, it is also in some way a concern for ordinary citizens, for the protection of their rights and for the resolution of their daily problems. State institutions should be a service to citizens and should be at their service, not to serve themselves as a purpose. In the previous term, I was an MP in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and in the MP's office in Kovin, where I live, regularly organised the citizens' reception and I could see clearly and see how difficult it is for citizens to deal with bureaucracy, to achieve some of their rights or to solve their problems. Analyzing the work of the Citizens' Protectors in the previous period, I saw that you were quite professionally and professionally engaged in protecting human rights, minority rights and marginalised groups. What's very important to me, as a professional who's worked with children for many years, is that you've paid special attention to just protecting children's rights. I've seen that there's also a child's side where young children learn to use the services your institution provides. What's very important is that you paid special attention to your peer violence. This is a problem that is evident in our society and we must never close our eyes. It's a problem that only one institution can solve, not only parents. I simply expect somewhere from your institution support to work more on this problem over the next period, because we must not allow any child to experience pain or suffering. A great deal of attention is devoted to gender equality, and I think that you should do this in the coming period even more. I expect greater participation from women in public and social life. What seems more important to me is that we need to prevent any form of discrimination against women, because we simply have to admit that there is such discrimination in our society, that women are harder to hire, that for the same jobs they get less wages, that there are employers who do not want to hire women because they think they will soon go on maternity leave or that because of child diseases they are absent from work. We have examples of pregnant women getting fired. We have examples where women and children of victims of domestic violence themselves are visiting the thresholds of different institutions in search of help, and in fact these institutions should work together to help such women and children. What would be very important and what I would suggest is that you might be working a little bit more on your institution's promotion, because speaking directly to the citizens, I realized that there are still a large number of people who simply don't know that this institution works in our country. I would also like you to perhaps initiate that local self-governments set up local citizens' protectors, i.e. local ombudsman offices, are simply insiders somehow this institution seems less accessible to me. I would also suggest that you analyse the problems you face in your work, and you can see them very well, give us recommendations, maybe even propose certain amendments to the law, where these amendments of the law would be easier to address the problems that citizens face and where all rights of citizens would be adequately protected. We would be happy to open a debate here in parliament about amending such laws, because we are all here somewhere with the task of making the lives of citizens in Serbia much better. On my personal behalf and on behalf of the Members of the United Regions of Serbia, I wish you success in future work, I want you to do your job bravely, responsibly and professionally as you have done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u859	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic from the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u860	Ladies and gentlemen, a few MPs, Your Honor, we are discussing tonight the issue the Assembly was to discuss six months ago. I would remind you that the Ombudsman was elected in July 2007 during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, that his term of office expired in July 2012, and that by law, the Assembly was obliged to initiate proceedings for his election within six months before the end of his term of office. This delay is a major failure in the work of the previous assembly majority, and I think it reflects in some ways the government's attitude towards the work of independent institutions. Since this is the first point we discuss after the government's election, I believe that the government's attitude towards the work of independent institutions will be changed. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support Mr. Sasa Jankovic's election as the guardian of citizens because we believe he has done much to improve the work of the Ombudsman institution and, in spite of the constitutional basis for the protection of citizens to be an integral part of the legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia, his contribution is enormous in that it is responsible for the fact that the institution has lived in the right sense and has preserved its credibility. All that has been done so far in the job description of the Citizens' Protector confirms the importance of this institution for the development of democracy and for the improvement of human, minority, civil rights of citizens in Serbia. In my opinion, the most important thing Mr. Sasa Jankovic has done is to establish a clear distance between the government and this institution. I will remind, of course, that the Serbian Constitutional Court just declared Mr. Sasa Jankovic's initiative unconstitutional restrictive provisions of the Public Information Act, and it deserves all praise. Also, I must point out the importance of a decision also taken by the Constitutional Court of Serbia on the declaration of the non-constitutional provisions of the Security Military Service Act, at which any location, listing or any information obtained from the citizens' private conversation could be obtained without the court's decision. I will also remind you that this Constitutional Court decision has also been taken on a joint initiative by the Citizens' Protectors and Commissioners for Public Information. Of course, Mr. Sasa Jankovic's unquestionable importance in terms of what he did when it comes to reviewing the general choice of judges. He did what we MPs in the National Assembly failed to do, and that is to make the public aware of all the failures and mistakes made in judicial reform. No matter what years ago we've warned about the possible consequences of so-called. The reform of the judiciary and no matter what we have spoken, but very strongly attacked every bad solution, I think that the crucial influence in this case has been played by the Guardian of Citizens, together with his opinion, in addition to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia on the adoption of appeals by all unselected judges in the re-election process. Of course, through his opinion, the Citizens' Protector has paid particular attention to the fact that the body that needs to provide and guarantee the independence and independence of the judiciary, the High Council of the judiciary, has long been working in a way that raises doubts about the regularity and legality of its work. In his opinion, he found all of what we DSS MPs have been saying for many years, which is that the High Council of the Judiciary worked in incomplete composition, that out of the 16 sessions in the re-election procedure he held only one in full, and all others in incomplete composition, that he continued to work after the resignation of one member of the High Council of the judiciary, after the detention of another member of the High Council of the judiciary and after the Anti-Corruption Agency found that a third member of the High Council of Justice was in conflict of interest. He also found that the High Council of the Judiciary works in the back of the system, in incomplete composition. I would remind you that the first meeting of the High Council of the Judiciary worked without the representatives of university professors and without representatives from the law firm, and that the election itself, especially the representatives of the law office, has raised doubts about the regularity, given that it was proposed by the Management Board of the Bar Association, and not by the Assembly as the most representative body. The opinion also found that the High Council of the Judiciary worked in secret, that the judges involved in the proceedings were not allowed information that was relevant to the exercise of their rights and, of course, spoke and concluded that members of the High Council of the Judiciary decided on decisions already taken by those members in the first Chamber. Of course, he pointed out his opinion on what needs to be done in order to remove all shortcomings in the work of the High Council of the judiciary, but I think that after the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia to adopt complaints from all unselected judges and prosecutors, I think it would be appropriate for the justice minister to find an adequate solution to this problem. Anyone who thinks that they are based on the independence and independence of the judiciary can set up with such a composition of the High Council of the judiciary is badly mistaken and will see if he decides to make such a move that of course he will encounter huge mistakes very quickly. Therefore, I believe that the High Council of the Judiciary in this session must be replaced by a change of law if our goal is, of course, an independent judiciary. Also, at the very end, I must say that everything I've been talking about today is just lighting up one piece of the picture of what really represents the effect of the work of the Protector of Citizens, in the development of democracy, the promotion of human and civil rights, and we, as a parliamentary group, will support Mr. Sasa Jankovic's choice as the Protector of the Citizens in his second term. But I just have to ask you, to ask you a question at the very end, I know that for procedural reasons you have no opportunity to answer me now, but I would ask if there is a possibility by written means. The question is – why does the Manchester as an institution not operate in the territory of KIM, if there are no procedural conditions for its operation in the territory of the entire southern province, why at least the Nautilus office is not opened in Kosovo Mitrovica in the northern part of KIM, when how much information we have opened ten offices on the territory of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u861	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nedja Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u862	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, what qualified Mr. Sasu Jankovic to be the Protector of Citizens is certainly not the political consensus that has been achieved in this assembly, nor should it be. Given that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is not based or must be based on any political consensus, given that it has received its legal framework and is regulated by law. But what is very important is to point out that the protection of citizens qualify for what is undeniable. And it is undeniable that he has no doubt professional references, it is undeniable that the justification of the existence of the Civil Protection Institution is confirmed by the report provided by Mr Sasa Jankovic to the MPs of this Assembly, a team that pointed to a huge number of performances, a huge number of citizens of the Protector of Citizens. What I personally think about on behalf of the SPS, PUPS and JS in particular, is that the special quality and performance in the work of the Protector of Citizens is manifested in a proper assessment of citizens' conversion as a premise in terms of the similarity of these notions to be handled. Because there is a certain degree of misunderstanding between the institutions and the legal frameworks of the Citizens' Protectors themselves. So that citizens, which is Mr. Sasha Jankovic and how well known, sometimes speak beyond what means the powers of the Protector of the citizens given to him by law. Therefore, I personally believe that this correct assessment of the similarity of a certain act, certain notions that it is shown in a very high quality manner, before a certain number of procedures have been initiated, i.e. the address of the Citizens' Protectors to the institutions which have been shown to be a violation of certain rights. Unfortunately, what needs to be noticed is the fact that those initial acts by the Citizens' Protectors who have been sent to institutions have not always been carefully and analytically evaluated. Why? Because a large number of such initial acts have lost their hearing. On the other hand, there is also, as a consequence of what I have said, a kind of non-synchronism in relation to what the Citizens' Protector pointed out and what was under these indications had to be done, both by the Prosecutor's Office and by other institutions. However, I would especially like to point out that what the Assembly itself does in its role should contribute to making the work of the Citizens' Protectors as successful and as high-quality as possible, is to adopt as high-quality laws as possible. Likewise, those who have to apply this law to apply it consistently. For what? Because it was the Citizens' Protector who faced problems that arise before him through the presentations of citizens, and that, through the very application of the law, those same citizens, those rights that were their judicial decisions, whether by the decisions of the administrative authorities or other decisions established or acquired, could not be realised. Therefore, our role is to help with the quality of the law to make the Protector of Citizens as little work as possible, because this is also the essence of the Civil Protection Institution, that through the fight for the protection of citizens' rights, it seems both preventive and preventive. This means that by respecting and eliminating the causes leading to a violation of law, the possibility of such rights being violated is reduced at the same time. All of these reasons, undoubtedly in addition to what the authorised representative of the SPS-PUPS-JS has indicated, make it clear in two sense that Mr. Sasa Jankovic, with full right, should be re-elected, or re-elected as head of this institution. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u863	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u864	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, this late time is certain that he cannot speak to the public, and I think it is very important that I address Mr. Sasha Jankovic and that, in addition to all the nice words spoken by my colleagues, I personally think, and as the Roma Party, there is no need to repeat it. The only thing I have to say is to a colleague who said that on this side of the SNS there were people who didn't vote for Sasa Jankovic. That's just not true. Here are some people who have started working together much earlier than some who have started calling for co-operation with him today and as president of the Roma Party and member of the SNS parliamentary group I remember that we also voted for him before he became the Citizens' Protector in 2007. I think it's very uncomfortable for such things to be respected in this good atmosphere, to try to impose such things, as my colleague said earlier, but what I do is happening, too. I wouldn't use a lot of nice words about your work I've talked about before and in other places, and it's enough that if I say I join in all those nice words. I would talk about some other things I expect from you, which as the Roma Party we think we should work together on both as a parliamentary party and as a community. I primarily think that we should pay a lot more attention to the socially endangered categories, because these are the categories that are the most difficult to reach both you and other institutions. As an example of what happened in the municipality of Vlasotince, let's say, the person who works at the Social Security Institute, during the elections, went to all the houses of socially endangered categories, I don't need to say that Roma are one of the most endangered categories, and that she threatened to have to vote as required, because otherwise their social assistance will be abolished. In that direction, I expect you to work together on this matter, that in the next four years we really create conditions that these socially endangered are no longer hostages of those who share with them what the states share, and represent as if they share it, as if it were some of their grandfatherhood is simply done with basic freedom to choose and be chosen. If we give this to socially endangered categories, then we will really be able to create a qualitative new shift in the achievement of human and minority rights in Serbia. The other thing I want to pass on, and I think we should work together on it, is that in your reports you talked about elections for national councils, however, we are today witnessing that not legitimately elected people, that people who were elected, that after one hour afternoon other observers were able to come in, that these people today are signing exactly the request that a respected colleague was talking about, and these people have no legitimacy, no legality, and that's what Mr. Protector of Citizens was talking about. If he didn't trust me, then trust him. We have to break up with that practice. We need to look into this situation together. It's the new assembly, you get a new mandate, and we can't let it manipulate the socially endangered, with the most endangered minority, that their representative body abuses certain things, certain aids that they've had from certain political centres of power. If we don't, then all of your efforts to make a good report about Belville, who did, all of your efforts to talk about what's going on in Block 61, all of it falls into the water because, simply, those who need to represent the community, they do business by doing public works. They're dealing with other things that don't stand in the national council law. Here we expect, together with you, to take an important step and to make certain changes in Serbia's direction. In that direction, I have to inform a colleague who said a few days ago that her MP group voted for the National Councils Act and the National Minorities Act, to use your presence to tell them that with Mr. Eckart in the OSCE, in which you worked at that time, she and her colleagues were not preparing a model for the National Council, but that's exactly what we were preparing, but that's how many people were informed, how many apriors take the exclusive that they did everything they needed. It is from those days that our correct co-operation dates back to those days that we have a certain opinion on you, and for these very reasons, this is how I address you by setting up tasks for the future, not by talking about what's done right. The next thing that matters is that we expect you to have the document that you've done, as far as I know, with the UNHCR, which concerns obtaining documents under a reduced procedure, is an extremely important thing, because in this way we will create the conditions that in this mandate, what the ruling coalition in the past term has not done, simply, all citizens of Serbia are legally visible, get their documents, and there is no reason why they are denied by a large number of human and minority rights. We expect that bill. Together with you, we should eventually make additional efforts and really be one of the laws that will be adopted unanimously in this congregation. The next thing we think we should do a lot, maybe it's one of the little criticisms to you, the Civil Service Act clearly speaks about Article 5, which was proposed by the Roma Party in 2007, was adopted, that it must be in state institutions to achieve minority participation. I don't know if Mr. Dragan has been given a solution to a permanent working relationship, I know that Mr. Rajko Đuric was, but I don't think we can stop at that, that you just have to show your example to all other institutions, because we're saying that socially endangered categories, that we have to educate Roma. On the other hand, we have Mr. Dragan, who I'm talking about, about a man who's graduated from law school, who's been walking around the thresholds of different institutions for 20 and a few years, from those most democratically defined to others, and this man, unfortunately, has no job, he couldn't get a job. I don't want to go in there for what he didn't want, but the fact is, he didn't. I expect you to be one of those who will take the first step and thus show everyone else what needs to be done. We also suggest that, in collaboration with the European Commission and the OSCE, I have a meeting tomorrow with OSCE representatives, who have extremely important means of implementing the decade and we have 7 with the European Commission's high representatives, and we are also initiating a joint action that will allow you, Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do more quality monitoring, to get better information on the ground, because surely one of the reasons why you can't get into the depth of the issues in all structures is the question of the existence of your capacities. I'll pass on that information tomorrow and the 7th. I'm sure if we do these things, we're going to make a quality move and we're certainly not going to talk about the situation anymore that the National Council is manipulating the national community just because it's an exponent of a particular center of political power. Surely we will not say that up to 100m euros have been spent on the Roma integration process, and that simply the results are nothing in this sense that nothing has been done, and that very little has been done in relation to the amount of money that has been spent. If we do this, I think we will all be able to conclude together and the four-year term of office of this Parliament, as well as the five-year term of office of your future, and to say that we have done something significant for socially endangered people, and they say that democracy is good when it takes care of the most vulnerable and those who have the least rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u865	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u866	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Jankovic, I suppose you're a little uncomfortable, and you're concerned that all the MPs, who discussed you, have praised you. The people say it's not very good when everyone praises you, so if you could, but the Rules of Procedure doesn't predict this procedure, when this type of session is that you say something about the work of the previous parliament, I guess there wouldn't be so much praise at the expense of our home because, let's say, in the last report, you say you submitted, and I assume it's only for 2011, over 40 initiatives to amend various regulations. I know that there have been proposals to change and some laws, and a lot of these initiatives also refer to the current regulations that the government and the ministries have adopted and you say that of these 40 initiatives, only three initiatives have been successful, i.e. the state authorities, as well as the Serbian Parliament, that they have listened and amended you. So, out of 40 initiatives, only three were accepted. So you wouldn't praise the work of our home. I hope that the new assembly council will have more hearing and understanding for your initiatives because these initiatives are based on five years of experience and on all those complaints you receive from the citizens of Serbia. So you can know exactly where the problems are when it comes to laws. I will say right here at the beginning that MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will also vote in favour of your re-election. So, it will be the unanimous re-election of Sasa Jankovic as Protector of Citizens. We're mostly pleased with your work. A colleague who will speak after me will talk, since I used the word "mainly", and it would not be normal if we were completely satisfied with your work, so he will talk about some of these things where we believe there are shortcomings in the work of your institution. As for your communication with the National Assembly and with the citizens, it takes place through these annual reports of your work. Since March of this year, there has been a report on the work of the Citizens' Protectors for the previous year, 2011. The one where I would like to commend the previous assembly meeting, which was first discussed last year by your annual report on the tide. We had a special session, you were there, we talked about the annual report for 2010 and that was very good. I hope this assembly takes on that good practice, too. When a report is considered only on the Committee, it is not enough. That practice needs to be continued. I expect that at one of the next sessions, we will discuss your 2011 report. What I would recommend to the new members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that they take your annual reports, and for God's sake, some of the other reports your house has produced, for example, a report on peer violence in schools. As far as I know, it's the first such report in Serbia and it's not a new problem, it's a problem that minority exists in all schools. There's also a report, and you've been in control of a housing facility, a social care facility for old people's accommodations, and it seems to me to be the first such report. All these reports of yours are very useful. I am going back to thinking that the members of the new government should look at this report and the previous reports, because it is an excellently shortened analysis of all the problems citizens face in contact, so to speak and work with state authorities, or all the authorities, whether they are some institutions, institutions, ministries, agencies, etc. What worries me is that almost half of the members of the new government are actually members of the old government, as many here call them – members of the old regime. For the past four years, they have been involved in creating these problems, or have not tried to remove them. It's a little hard to believe that they're going to have this fantastic transformation overnight, so suddenly they're going to head for it, but let's think positively. Maybe the new party that has most of the government will be able to fix things. From all previous reports, and there are five, it is an absolute impression that the rights that are most at stake in Serbia are economic and social rights of citizens. As the previous government did badly, it culminated in the fact that we have the largest unemployment in Europe. Not in the region anymore, but in Europe. He can't get 25% of the working population to get a job. It is known that one of the fundamental human rights, the right to work, the right to support yourself, is the right to support your family. The biggest threat and greatest fear among Serbian citizens is fear of poverty. Those who don't have a job, they're already facing that poverty. Those few who are fortunate to be working somewhere and earning some kind of pay, are constantly afraid of losing their jobs. Because of the existing fear of job losses, all other terrible phenomena are born when it comes to labour rights. That's clear in all your reports. It seems to me that the largest number of complaints apply to those rights. Black flower work. Employers are irresponsible, and sometimes it's even a state. They don't pay pension and health insurance. People can't verify health books. You've even even gone to some Serbian cities where people strike because they can't verify the health book. When a man wants to retire, he often encounters the fact that his employer did not pay his pension insurance. Then there's a fund that, instead of punishing the employer and making him pay what's not paid, the fund turns to whoever wants to retire. Then you have that they won't make a pension solution, or they just didn't get retirement conditions because he's missing it, and then there's a citizen who's guilty, and he didn't even know the employer didn't do it. A famous case from one of your reports, I think it's the Borski County, where your doctor complained, when you checked, that he worked for as long as seven years for a certain time. It's a 14-time renewed contract to a certain work. Believe me, if you went to other institutions in Serbia, you would also face it. Not to say that in this election campaign, this institute of work has used a lot for a certain time. You have, say, in a small town of 120 people who suddenly, before the elections, got contracts to work for a certain time. Of course, you'll get a job contract, you'll get a job, but you'll vote for me. Not just you, but your whole family. I expect you'll have better co-operation in the future with this house and we'll have more hearing about changing those laws that need to be changed. I also hope that you will have better co-operation with both the government and the ministries, that they are also changing some of their ruling regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u867	The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u868	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, during this debate we had several times to hear, so to speak, praises to the Guardians of Citizens. I'm going to give each other an opinion that shouldn't be my own way of making cake cream. Why am I saying all this and why am I saying all this? I speak precisely for one reason, as according to the Constitution of the Serbian State, the institution of the Protector of Citizens also refers to our southern Serbian province. However, I have a chance to read here that Mr. Jankovic told us it was in the work of UNMIK. UNMIK is now reduced to 20 people and surely he cannot do such a thing or process it. What's important here and important to say is that it's something else. What else is that? What's important to say is, it seems to me that Mr. Jankovic is in his own way, by not installing an institution that protects citizens' rights in the southern Serbian province, afraid of destroying the statehood of Kosovo, a self-proclaimed state. On the other hand, some of our friends say Mr. Jankovic does not want to interfere with his counterpart in Pristina, who was elected by the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, which we all know we have not recognised. What we can say is that, unfortunately, this four years, a so-called demonstration is being carried out and that what the state of Serbia can do in the space of Cosmeta does not seem to be. For example, we can no longer draw ID cards in a place of life. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to see even the last vote held in Cosmet, the actual count is done and done in central Serbia, because we have become a diaspora, because in a similar way the Serbs in Germany or the United States vote. So, what is it? It is the fact that Serbia is avoiding the rights that belong to it under the Constitution. By itself, agreements signed by Belgrade, or Borko Stefanovic with Edith Tahiri, have in some way compromised the human rights of our Serbs living downstairs. Just one sentence, as an MP in this House, I can no longer move with the personal documents of the state of Serbia to my territory, i.e. The southern Serbian province. What's important is that there are ways to do your work, there are institutions down there, not even in the whole territory of Cosmeta, but let's say in Kosovo Mitrovica or in other parts you can do your duty. After all, there is no US or German diplomat who has not come to Serbia's country that has not asked to put out Serbian institutions in the southern province. What can be said, and it is important and important, I personally think that when you printed it, it seems to me a year ago, you did not purposely print that Kosovo is not part of Serbia's state. Personally, I think it's a technical mistake, and what we expect from you is to open an office that will act and work like those other offices that exist in the country of Serbia. I think it would be a very bad message that because you don't want to open an office in the southern Serbian province, let's say for a while we're looking for your resignation. At the very end, I will ask you, as a man, as a member of the Serb people living downstairs, not to call us enclaves anymore. That's about what your report says when you talk about Kosovo and Metohija. I think it can be used by an international crisis group, but it must not, nor can the Protector of the rights of citizens of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-02-0.u869	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a decision to elect the Protectors of Citizens. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a draft decision in the voting day. I hereby inform you that I will schedule a session of the National Assembly for Saturday at 10.00 p.m. when we will continue to work on the amendments to the previous law and determine Saturday as the Day of Vote on the Protector of Citizens. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the RIK on the allocation of the mandate to the MP in order to complete the vacancy. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic, elected from the election list United Regions of Serbia – Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic. Since Mr. Zdravkovic is not in the Assembly, he will take the oath at the next session. Let me thank Mr. Jankovic on your behalf for attending this debate. I'm sorry the Rules of Procedure won't allow me to give him a chance to answer any of the remarks that were made here at his expense. I certainly thank him because he's one of those representatives that we're choosing, who's spent the entire debate here with us. I'm closing today's session. I'll see you Saturday. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Maja Gojkovic, Cedomir Protic, Vesna Stepic, Miroljub Stojčić, Mirjana Dragas, Sasa Dujovic. Before we continue our work, I invite you to pay our respects to all the victims in the action of the Croatian Army "Storm" 17 years ago. Praise them! We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the amendment and addition of the laws on the national bank of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs together Mirko Cvetković, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković, Janko Vesenović, Janko Radaković, together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic, Dusan Petrovic, together Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petković, Donka Banović, Rankar Pejčić, Bojana Božanić and Gorica Mijic, Mirko Čikiriz, together Natasa Mićić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Koraić, Ranka Savić, Miljenko Dereta and Kenan Hajdarević, Ivan Jovanovic, Srdjan Miković, Vesna Kovac, Radoslav Milovanovic, Živin Stanković, Gorica Mojović, Borisa Mojović, Borisa Stefanović, as well as well as amendments that are based on Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Janko Radaković and joint MPs Mirko Cvetkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Natasa Vučković and Janko Vjevinović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Jankovi Velesinović. Here you go.
