ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7025	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 79 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dejan Rajicic, Dusica Nikolic, Tamara Tripic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vera Paunovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular on the proposals of the law referred to in points 5 to 12 of the agenda, I have called for the presence of regional development and local self-government ministers, members of the Government, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry and Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, and: Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Aleksandar Ljubić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Andrijana Stojković, Senior Manager in the Agency for Privatisation, Dragomir Matović, Senior Head of the Agency for Priva, Ninoslav Kekić, Director of the Fund for Development of the Ministry of Finance and Business, the Republic of Finance and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue the debate in detail on the 8th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES On Article 32, MPs Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic submitted together. The government and the Committee of Commerce, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7026	This is one of the amendments the government has accepted. Its goal was to, since space was left for the appointment authority of the director of public enterprises not to propose automatically, there was a lot of debate yesterday, we are not going to expand again, not to propose the best-ranked, but to have some freedom to choose between the three first-ranked ones in their opinion the best solution. We insisted that the public be informed of the appointment solution, that's normal, but also the explanation, unless the best-ranked one was chosen, what is it that decided not to be best-ranked chosen, but someone else. We have submitted another amendment concerning public insight. He'll meet me a little later on the agenda. The amendment was rejected by the government, but our idea was that through these two amendments it would allow quality public insight into the process itself and in the details needed, and in a way, in our opinion, that the election process itself would not be compromised in terms of any public pressure or any other bad thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7027	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Maja Vidinović and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee of Commerce, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Judita Popovic and Radmila Gerov. The government and the Committee of Commerce, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Committee of Commerce, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee of Commerce, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7028	And during the principle debate, I have pointed out that there is an obvious contradiction between Article 38 and Article 39. It's a bill of law. Namely, in Article 38. The draft law states that the authority responsible for the appointment of a director of a public undertaking will relieve the Director before the expiry of the period to which he is appointed if, during the duration of the term of office, he is legally sentenced to a probation or unconditional sentence of prison. Article 39 says the same thing, but it can be resolved by the Director before the end of the period on which he was appointed if, during the duration of the term of office, he is legally sentenced to probation or unconditional imprisonment. The bill makes no difference in any way whether a person committed a crime in his own right or not. It happened that certain MPs indicated that there should be a difference, because the fact is that Mr Kovacevic, it seems to me, was the only one in the proposal for his amendments to treat the crime differently whether it was committed in thought or not. The second thing is, when we choose a director, there is a possibility that the candidate for director was previously convicted of various crimes, including crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law. It is possible that he was also tried for crimes against the Serbian Army, against election rights, for example, that he stole elections, against the right to, on the basis of work, which is a non-sension to be one in general in a candidate for director, against intellectual property, against property, that some candidate for director was stolen and convicted. All such can be candidates for the director, and yet, on the other hand, if during the term of office the Director of Out-of-time, driving his private car accidentally commits a criminal offence against public traffic security, someone hangs a car, no alcohol, no arrogant behavior, usually a criminal offense against public traffic security... If we do not have a change in article 38, such a director must be resolved. So that's the kind of director that's gonna get rid of him. It's not the same thing if someone knowingly, deliberately, deliberately committed a crime, and I've listed all the crimes or, on the other hand, if there's been an accident. Next thing. By changing our criminal legislation, we have allowed the possibility of delaying criminal prosecution, so for the same crime, there is the possibility that someone should not be at all, to say criminally convicted if the prosecution and the court have consent, precisely in such minor criminal acts as endangering the security of public traffic, and the same case if convicted by parole, that the director is resolved in such a situation. In that sense, I believe that there is no equality between all those to whom this provision of Article 38 can be applied. Because one word is said – all who are legally sentenced to parole or unconditional imprisonment must be released. No matter how theoretically someone may commit a criminal offence against the security of public traffic, be subject to parole, and on the other hand someone in the same situation to get a stay, prosecution, and as such to be formally and legally uncondemned. I've pointed out and I'm asking you to reconsider, or at least to notify what is needed in some subsequent changes and additions to the Public Business Act, to make this absolutely correct. I think that when we look at the whole bill of law, everything about crimes is not consistently analysed, who is convicted who is not convicted, which groups are covered, which are not, in the selection of directors, in the selection of all bodies, in the candidate and on the other hand, here where they say they will be resolved. I believe that the better variant was to keep the formulations of Article 39 that the Director may be dismissed before the expiry of the period for which he was appointed, if, during the duration of the term of office, he is legally sentenced to probation or unconditional imprisonment. If he commits a crime, which we can all agree on, if he steals, if he commits a crime against the original rights, if he commits a crime against labour rights, but also if he commits an accidental crime, for example, against the security of public traffic, which can happen to any driver in the country, that there is still some discretionary authority. So to the authority responsible for the appointment of the Director, to either resolve or not, depending on the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7029	Thank you. Anybody else want a word? The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7030	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, just to ask if I can take time from the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7031	Excuse me, Mr. Kovacevic, if you could repeat the question to me, I didn't really hear you. I'm asking the MPs to be quiet for a while, I'm really not in a position to follow the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7032	Can I take some time from the MP's group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7033	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7034	Last night I was absent when my amendment to article 22 came to order, for the reason I got notice that last night the Assembly was working until 1900 hours. I left at 19.10, because it was said that only that replica would end, and I left. I'm not talking about what I missed, but I think it's a connection with these members and the problems Mr. Mikovic was talking about. Thank you for speaking in some way last night in my absence, and for representing me. I cannot understand that the Government rejects the amendment, whether it is mine or others, to Article 22, with an explanation – the amendment is rejected for the reason why the amendment of Mrs Batic was accepted. I have stated by which all the heads of the work should be tried as a candidate for director, to be tried by these acts, unless they are out of shortfall, and Mrs Batic, with my respect, only said that actions are taken against the economy and the acts against legal traffic and replaced the cases against legal traffic by acts of official duty. That absolutely can't do it. It's her right, she arranged it, and I don't take it personally. I argue with the government's position and reason that it cannot be an important amendment that says everything Mr. Mikovic has said, and I will say that, by fighting corruption, crime and all other things, this kind of attitude in Articles 22, 38, 39, are we going to allow people predisposed to criminal acts to come to us as directors? Are we going to let a man who's convicted of rape come to a company with a wife in it? Are we going to let a man who was a drug dealer come along for the director? What kind of profile are we looking for for for a director who is supposed to be communicating with the government's public firm tomorrow? When it comes to a significant job, an ino partner finds out he's talking to a former criminal. I understand you don't need apriors, considering anything that's meant to be, that you can't come. There are small things, and especially if the works are out of business, but it can't be so easy for the government to explain that everything I'm talking about, as soon as I can, is explained by the fact that the actions involved are official, and it replaces everything. I don't think it replaces, and if we have to admit that in this society, we're going to have a terrible time narrowing down our ability to elect a director, then we admit that the whole nation is criminalized and that it's hard to find a man who meets such criteria. I would be very pleased and I would understand the Government if my amendment to Article 22 had not been accepted entirely, but, through the board or alone, made an amendment to my proposal in the spirit of that proposal, as set out in Article 22. It would be a normal and creative entry of the government into this problem. I ask once again for the government to reconsider this position. Here at Articles 38 and 39, I support Mr. Mikovic, but it is very interesting that, let's say, I understand in article 39 where it is said that he can be recalled, in other points, somehow, but please, he says – if it is determined that because of that, that and that, second if it is determined... So there's no more dilemma, there's no variable solution, there's been found guilty. Then how can it stand in Article 39, that he can or can't call him back? It has to go to Article 38, where it's bound to call off on these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7035	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7036	First, I want to thank all MPs who have contributed to their amendments to improve the law. We have adopted as many as 29 amendments to this law. Ten amendments are amendments to the Committee, and 19 are amendments to the MPs. Some of the amendments have been fundamentally respected through some other amendments. This is also the case with this, given that Olgica Batić has given us an amendment that is appropriate and we have accepted that amendment. It is possible that the explanation given by our professional service to the MPs was not appropriate, which is why some MPs were rejected, but the intention was not bad. On the contrary, we covered this matter through Mrs. Olga Batic's amendment. The same goes for Moma Colakovic's amendment to Law 24. In a similar text, Miss Jerkov gave the amendment. We have essentially respected both amendments through the amendment of the Committee on Economy, to this Article 24, here I am taking the opportunity to say it. Since 29 different amendments have been accepted, we have in fact respected all that the MPs gave as ideas, and in the formulations we used those that we considered to be the most accurate given. Once again, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7037	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Milenić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7038	After Minister Dinkic's speech, I wouldn't waste my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7039	Thank you. Mrs. Olga Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7040	Thank you. I'm just going to add on my amendments accepted by the government, and I have to agree with MP Kovacevic. As far as we're concerned, it is clear that a person should not be appointed as the director of public enterprises, since a number of crimes, such as rape, etc., and moreover, it is known that DHSS is the first to advocate the fight against crime and corruption. In this regard, many laws should be amended, not just the Law on Public Enterprises, because this parliamentary group is a position that no one who is convicted of any other group of criminal offences can be appointed as a director of a public enterprise, not just for abuse of official office or legal traffic. Furthermore, I must point out that the amendment that I have submitted to Article 39 has made very clear and decidently important and that, in the course of the term of my term of office, if I have been convicted of any other criminal offence, and not only of those acts concerning those amendments or of what is inserted into the amendment, it means crimes against the economy and crimes against traffic, but also of any other criminal offence, which makes it unworthy to perform the functions of the Director. I think that made everything clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7041	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7042	In the material that we received as an official report from the Government, the opinion of the Government given to the National Assembly, which the amendments were accepted, and which were not accepted, we received an explanation of why my amendment was not accepted, and this was an explanation that some other amendments were accepted, i.e. an amendment to Article 39, not which was submitted by Mrs or Ms Batic, but by the LDP parliamentary group. That was the reason why my amendment was not accepted, rather than the acceptance of Ms Batic's amendment to Article 39, which is still, as I see, in the procedure. In that sense, I still insist, since I did not get an answer, which is why someone who once committed an easy crime, for example. against the security of public traffic outside of working hours, unrelated to the work it does, why would it make it unworthy to do the directorial work, and, on the other hand, to be elected director, it is not an exclusive matter even if it has committed a criminal act against property. So, if he's stolen, he's legally convicted, if he's committed robbery, it turns out he's worthy of being a director, according to how we're going to vote on the bill unless the proposed amendment is passed. In any case, a large number of crimes do not make an unworthy candidate for director. I repeat once again, if he is legally sentenced against labour-based rights, he can be a director, and apparently he has violated the rights of workers. If he committed a crime against human health, against the environment, against the general security of human beings and property, against national authorities, for example. The falsified person has the right to be a director, against constitutional regulation and security of the Republic of Serbia, and the one who has been convicted of it has the right to do so, and under the bill of law, it turns out that he is worthy of being a candidate for director, and if he does the criminal act against public traffic security without delay, he must be resolved. Is that an obvious illogicality in the bill? Are we going to let this law come out of the National Assembly? The people will laugh at us if we don't clear these things up and be consistent from the beginning to the end of this law. I have pointed out - give the laws in the regular procedure, let us be able to give anyone who learns a little bit more about this criminal-legal matter, that correct amendment, correct suggestion. It's not the same thing if someone accidentally did something and did it deliberately. So, he's worthy of stealing in his mind, and he's not worthy of the one who accidentally hooked up with someone's car and did material damage, and that's why it's a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7043	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7044	With my best wish to contribute economics to the debate, I still have to answer. I think it's been missed to see what the basic values of this bill on public enterprises are. In addition to expertise, professionalism and work experience in relation to political and any other volunteerism and arbitraryness, this bill of law affirms and the public in the work and what we are talking about here, personal responsibility. I think there's a kind of layman's debate that introduces a distinction that can act confusingly, the difference between imaginary and guilt from incessantness. But what is very important here is that the suspension in this common way of speech must not be identified by the absence of responsibility. Nehath is always a liability, otherwise he couldn't produce any guilt. This practically means, in relation to the issues that you state, that because of the personal responsibility of people who carry public functions and personal responsibilities that must be demonstrated as controllers, they carry maximum separation measures from the network of relationships in which everyday life involves people, almost in some kind of isolation and commitment to work, so as not to get involved in the risks of daily traffic. Therefore, those who manage have an official vehicle at their disposal, so they have a whole range of services, to lower the level of risk of interference in responsibilities that are always objective and whenever they involve a misdemeanor, they also ask the question of credibility for further management. Remember, the ministers in this democracy also resigned from sitting in the wrong car, not behind the wheel, but in the car that committed the offense. So populism versus public function is one of the basic categories of erosion of the idea of responsibility. This law is not populist. He insists on personal responsibility also by means of these unsuspecting ideas of the criteria for determining responsibility, and of course he will also have default techniques for how a person with personal responsibility is organised in his life and in his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7045	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7046	I would like to thank the minister for accepting many amendments to our parliamentary group, but I think this matter is still a matter of legal profession. I would like to clarify the position of our parliamentary group, which is why we agree with Mr Srdjan Mikovic. In fact, according to the current bill, if this amendment is not accepted, we can choose many persons who are perpetrators of criminal acts that absolutely make them unworthy of the role of the director of public enterprises. For example, someone who committed a crime of rape, promises, drug dealings, etc., and then under conditions of resolution, for some minor crime, as an example of the Road Traffic Safety Act has been cited, that director may then be resolved. Secondly, I think it was necessary to accept the amendment of my colleague, Olgica Batic, who, in addition to believing that the previous condition for the election of the director should be indelicate, also extends the conditions for resolution, by submitting the amendment to Article 39 and saying – if, during the term of office, he commits a criminal act that makes him absolutely unworthy of the director's duties. I think it is, however, something that the legal profession understands better, with all due respect to all other fellow Members of Parliament. That is why our parliamentary group's position is identical to that of the PUPS parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7047	Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7048	The replica to Mr. Milenic, because again, I cannot clarify what was the true will of the government. Was what in the proposal, in the proposal of Article 38, or in the proposal of Article 39? If someone commits a criminal offence during the term of office, does he have to be resolved and can he be resolved? I believe that, looking at all of this context of the law, it is more correct that what is stated in Article 39's proposal can be resolved, precisely if a crime is committed, which has to do with work, which has to do with making it further unworthy to act as director. You will allow, I cannot agree with Mr Milenic's discussion, that if someone is in the position of the director, they must or should use an official vehicle, especially an official vehicle for private purposes. Is a woman going to drive to the market in an official vehicle? I can't agree with that. The second thing, can the director happen to a random injured family member, that a child has to urgently lead to a doctor and sit in his car, eventually, press the gas more than he should and accidentally make a car accident and therefore be given a probational sentence, which will determine a prison sentence that will not be carried out unless such a crime is repeated? You will allow me to think that, on the one hand, you must prescribe as a mandatory director to be resolved in such cases, and on the other hand, that a candidate for director may be, and not only to be a candidate for director, but to be elected... (President: Time, Mr. Mikovic. I don't think there's any consistency in the bill itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7049	Mr. Milenic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7050	Yes, managing responsibility requires such high standards as to assume, unfortunately, material standards that our society does not meet. To answer your question is positive - yes, in countries that have come from their wealth and civilization standards, high responsibility is assumed and includes such a way of life, that people with responsibility have been relieved of a whole series of normal routine job needs and obligations. Unfortunately, we have much more standards in demand than our options, so it can really happen to our most responsible people to slip into the most banal life situations, because we don't have previously met the conditions of society organisation. That doesn't mean that the idea that I just represented is wrong. Another thing I want to replicate, please colleagues who are lawyers, just because they're lawyers, brought with rhetorical grill, don't bring in the idea of a crime done out of depravity, as the idea of the absence of responsibility for the crime done. Where there's talk of the absence of any involvement in guilt, there's no stop, there's no guilt, and there's incessant guilt and responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7051	You didn't mention it. No mention of your exposure. You have no basis for replication. You can use your group's parliamentary time, but you have no basis for replication. Would you like to use your time? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7052	If it's about my amendment, and I don't have the right to respond to objections, then I don't know who has the right to answer and defend. According to the difolt, if this is about my amendment, I have the right to defend it. It's a discussion, a part of the agenda, then no problem, I'll use the time, because it's your right or you won't give it to me. It's your right to give or not give, but it's my amendment. So if in any way you want to stop me from saying that, I can agree to that. I believe this amendment is heading towards improving the text of the law. It's not the same thing if someone conceitedly commits a crime, or if someone accidentally commits a crime that has nothing to do with the director's work. On the other hand, the possibility of someone knowingly committing a criminal offence related to labour rights, as regards property, which was caught with his hand in another person's pocket, being convicted, can be a director, but must be resolved by the one who has been infrequently, because the child was driving to emergency medical intervention, or has committed a criminal offence for traffic safety, it must be resolved. That's not justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7053	What you just said, let me give you an explanation. So, it's not a matter of whether I want to or not to give you my word, nor do you, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to replicate anyone who speaks of this amendment. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure are like that. But you have plenty of time for your MPs' group and you can definitely get back to me while you have that time. No problem at all. We're moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 39, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposer adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The President of the Committee, MP Aleksandra Tomic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7054	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers and colleagues, defines who can resolve the director and under what conditions. The LDP proposal was in this sense, but on the Committee, in a constructive debate, we came to a common solution, so that this amendment is practically an amendment to the Committee, which, in Article 38(3), speaks about who can resolve the Director and what are the conditions. It is said in paragraph 3: "unless it fulfils the obligation provided for in Article 52 of this company law, the founder of which is the Republic, and unless it fulfils the obligation provided for in Article 55 of this Act, for undertakings whose establishment is an autonomous province or unit of local self-government". In the previous proposal, it stood in place of Article 52, Article 54. More correctly, Article 52 is because it defines three months of notice and submits a report on the work of the director. Article 55 discusses the unmistakableness, in practice, of monetary obligations in which it is one of the basic obligations in the business of the director, which is actually the downfall of the entire company programme. That is why we wanted to unite our obligations with this proposal in Articles 52 and 55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7055	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The Government and the Resolution Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7056	Of course, we support this amendment. I have one thing to point to. Minister Dinkic and I had a brief conversation here at the meeting where we found that one of the amendments submitted by DS, specifically me, is acceptable to Minister Dinkic. He then said he would consult with coalition partners and like the amendment. I must point out, seeing as there is an absolute trend here concerning this, and others, and the previous amendment, that they are absolutely accepted by the ruling coalition, I quote, the amendments that all but DS have submitted, even when there is a complete resemblance, not to say that they are identical. So what you're doing is a very dangerous thing. It just shows that some parties in this parliament, even when they say things that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia, which the ruling coalition agrees with, cannot go through if it is the DS. I would like you to deny me and to show what you said yesterday in action, and that we are not all here now witnessing one attempt, which will not succeed, insulating the DS, putting it into a political wake, ignoring all constructive proposals that are identical to those you accept. Is there any explanation that this is not naked politics and attempt to stop DS, which, of course, will never work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7057	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7058	I must say, many of our amendments have been changed. I'm glad that colleague Stefanovic mentioned this, since yesterday was the topic. Part of our amendment was accepted by the government. We left part of it willingly to the Committee because we thought it was a better solution. Part of the government refused, or did not accept. This anger coming from the DS is very interesting. Because, unfortunately, counterpart Stefanovic was not an MP in the past term. He was dealing with some other responsible stuff. We were MPs. The practice of such behaviour was introduced by your government when, too, when there are two or more similar amendments, the one who wants to adopt it. As for us personally, neither at that time nor today, it did not bother us, and two amendments to Mrs Batic were better than our amendments. The government has accepted amendments concerning Article 38 and concerning matters relating to who can't be the director of the judiciary. We're pleased to point out the problem. We're pleased that someone else pointed out the problem. Since that solution was better, that was enough for us. If it's trying to get some broader political context out of it, I think it's a mistake. We do not see in this intent, but we see confirmation that we have really dealt with this law in a serious way. I understand that it may cause some kind of, I can't say jealousy, that would be a hard word, competition. I want you not to see the flaw in it, but to simply find energy in it to be so good next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7059	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7060	Anything Mr. Andric told you, I would say. I couldn't do better than him. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7061	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7062	First, I think it's incorrect to say – we've been seriously preparing, and you're jealous because we've been better prepared. I don't think that's true. We're not gonna measure now. Or you have that scale to measure who was better prepared. If you're all in the arms of Mladjan Dinkic and this government, you're going free. Now don't let us compete who's going to hug before who. That's not our goal. Our goal is to point out to citizens, not to the government, we know they don't care, to see one thing. You have the same amendments, we'll accept everything, we just don't want the DS, theirs is poisonous. This can't happen. Now I'm asking a question -- if that's what you say in the last term, those things can easily be denied. Excuse me, Mr. President, can you calm down the MP? It's not true that that's the way it was in the last term, but it was. If anyone in this place talked about the mistakes in the previous period, it was us. We've made those mistakes public. If you want, we apologized for those mistakes. Some people who did the responsible work in that government took some moves and resigned as MPs. Some who have done much worse are now ministers. They have no idea that they bear political responsibility either in their own party or in front of Serbian citizens. It is a trend and it is something we should point to. Yeah, I wasn't in a previous meeting. There were bad things. He's a bad Rules of Procedure. That's when he was good enough for us, now he's not good enough for us. What do we do now? Now we have the right to say - I'm sorry, we made mistakes in the last term, now we have no right to say anything. Get used to it, all of you, and first of all, the government, that the DS will never shut up and there's no way that you're going to make us not have the right to criticise for the things that were before, which we ourselves pointed out as opposed to all of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7063	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7064	It's not about silence and talk, it's about work. The fact is that the LDP parliamentary group has proposed concrete amendments that improve this law. You didn't do it, except in one case where I told you that I personally agree with the amendment that you submitted to the fact that the Director of the Republic Public Enterprise cannot be a party official and that it should only stand and that it should not stand any further, or that it can freeze the function. I said that I personally agree, and probably some other parties in our coalition, because of the lack of consensus to accept your amendment, I gave my personal support. However, there is a government consensus on many amendments submitted by LDP, as well as by counterpart Olgica Batic, because LDP has submitted a good amendment to ban the use of public enterprises for political purposes. It's a key amendment at the very beginning of the law. Then, to prohibit advertising of public enterprises that have a monopoly position and do not have market competition. These two amendments are the essence of the change that public enterprises are used only to achieve national, or public interest, rather than the private interest of political parties, which was a mass case in the previous period, a mass case at all levels, to these provisions that the Committee on Economy appoints one member of the Commission with 2/3 consent, which means that the opposition actively participates in the selection process of people who will tomorrow choose the directors of public enterprises, as well as many others we have accepted, to regulate legal matter that people who have committed crimes cannot be candidates for directors and can be resolved if they are legally convicted. Of course, there have been other parliamentary groups that have submitted amendments where some ideas have been implanted into the amendment committees. The fact is that your parliamentary group on this bill, except for that one, which I personally think is adequate, has not submitted amendments to which we agree, not politically, but essentially. One is a story, and the other is a work. Other parliamentary groups have done the work and written good amendments. You think you've written good ones, but besides that one, I haven't seen one that would deserve to be accepted from a professional point of view. That doesn't mean we won't accept your amendments to other laws when they're done properly. So, for the government of the Republic of Serbia, every good proposal, came from whatever parliamentary groups, authorities, opposition, citizens, citizens' associations, is welcome. We are prepared to hear every well-intentioned criticism, every good suggestion, because we ourselves consider criticism to be wrong and not to contribute to the development of society, that in Serbia it is time for consensus at least around some basic common goals. Besides, you'll see, practice will show. We've also accepted amendments to some other DSS laws. Literally any parliamentary group that proposes good proposals, I can say on my personal behalf 100%, we will accept, and the government has shown that it is ready to accept the same thing. Especially in this law, I say, there wasn't enough of that material. You may not have dealt with this law enough, I don't know what the reason was, but don't give these political assessments, because there really isn't any political intention of discrimination between anyone or favoring anyone. We favor good ideas and good suggestions, and that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7065	The word is Mr. Andric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7066	I have no intention of spreading this debate, especially with DS, but just some things have to be said even here. We warned you a few times, don't drag us into your divorce political lawsuit. If you have something to say to your former coalition partners that you chose last time for us, tell them, but don't do it over our backs. That's why I reacted, because you did it yesterday and today. From my perspective, it's completely pointless to accuse the LDP of being close to your former coalition partner, whom you're angry with because he didn't want to go with you this time. Save it for each other. We are prepared to reach a certain limit, as we were last night, to sit on the sidelines and watch it, without taking part in it, but don't get us into it. That's what this is about, and that's why it was my reaction. We have neither ambition nor intention to participate. As for that, I have to tell you, as it was last time, I know that everyone from the height they think they are, when they look at some processes in this congregation, they look different than they actually are. What happened today and yesterday was happening in the last session. Trust us, because our position is more or less the same in that. Maybe from some big mountain that looks at people it looks different and people look alone in their eyes merciful and broad, but it's not like that. The things you chose yourself, much more should happen than a simple apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7067	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7068	Everything Mr. Dinkic said is essentially true, only it is also true what MP Andric said. There is one dangerous, in a political sense, toxic trend, that we who are very good, in our opinion, have submitted the amendments and we have prepared well for them, in a context of content, do not differ in anything but the amendments you have accepted. In fact, we all agreed that indeed, Minister Dinkic, there is a trend for the DS to try to isolate itself and that our amendments are automatically out of the question. I should feel honored and grateful that you have expressed your appreciation for one amendment, which significantly promotes what this Assembly should approve, as far as public enterprises are concerned. To isolate those freezers we talked about yesterday, and the ones that were frozen in the National Bank, so now they'd be freezing in public enterprises. And then I asked you, and now I ask you, who are these people? Who is it that in the ruling coalition won't approve of you adopting an ordinary, worthless DS amendment, which is such a harmful party by the ruling coalition, that you can't adopt one amendment? Then the debate goes down to the level that maybe we weren't preparing, that maybe we weren't serious. It's below every level. As it is below every level that our opposition friends are now assessing us - is one apology enough or not? It's not about that, it's about everything you said before, Mr. Andric. There's this trend here, and DS can't get a single amendment to adopt, we can contribute to those trends and better laws and everything you've talked about, Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7069	It's been two minutes. People's MPs are registered in the electronic system: Srdjan Mikovic, Sasa Milenić, Marjan Risticevic, Dragan Šormaz and Olgica Batic. People's MP, Marjan Risticevic, are you in the Rules of Procedure? I say who's registered in the electronic system, because five names in the electronic system can stand and I wrote it down. If any of the Members of Parliament who have been declared requires a word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, they will receive a word. If not, then I'll delete it and give it right to the replica, or the minister if he asks for a word. So, who's picking up the line? The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7070	I think there were colleagues who had contacted me before, but good. This ends the wave of replicas. I just want for the sake of truth to say that our amendment to that article has not been accepted either. We had an amendment by which someone couldn't function a party a year before being appointed to a place. So, just so there's no confusion about it, our amendments essentially, and they're two or three, they're not accepted. It's simple for telling the truth, and I don't want to go further into discussion with the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7071	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7072	Yesterday I pointed out that the amendment to Article 26, which I submitted, was absolutely identical to the amendment proposed by the LSV Group. It's essentially the same. I got an explanation that the difference is in one comma. It is those who explained that this comma is important and that it should remain, that Mr. Milenić gave me today the right to be absolutely language-righted my formulation, and Ms. - Miss Jerkov, whose amendment was adopted, gave me the right to be more linguistically correct in my amendment, and it is essentially the same. A legal-technical editorial can solve that issue and get stuck, but apparently there was no will for an identical amendment, even a better amendment to be adopted, which I think is absolutely inappropriate. That was what the government said about it. It's a different criterion for each other. This argument is in favour of not being treated in the same way as the amendments of the Members of Parliament. I don't know what the reason was, whether a party or any other difference, but they weren't the same treated amendments to individual MPs. It doesn't matter if it's from one or another parliamentary group. The MPs with their proposals are not equal, no matter where, from which group came the proposal. I pointed out that yesterday, and today I got confirmation that you're not principled.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7073	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7074	It's not about this. It's about stopping this debate, which seems to me, it's becoming pointless. I'm advertising Article 107. - a violation of the dignity of the Assembly. I ask my colleagues to learn that it doesn't matter if the woman is a lady or a lady. A few of them are already wondering in their presentation who's what. So it doesn't matter whether the co-workers of the lady or the missus and the whole modern world introduces a unique expression for a woman, because when a woman deals with politics, it doesn't matter whether she's married or single. So when nobody gets up here to talk, we don't ask if you're married or not, whether you're divorced or what your marital status is, so I ask you to give it the same right to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7075	I did not directly attend the presentation of anyone you consider to have compromised the reputation of the National Assembly by addressing the MPs in one way or another. I hope we've come to appreciate each other's respect, and I'm asking that we stick to polite behavior. National MP Sasa Milenic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7076	As an authorised representative of the URS parliamentary group, I am obliged to act. The position on possible Stigmatisation of any parliamentary group, and I most explicitly declare that it is simply not specific. And at the URS Parliament Club, in preparation for the defence of this legislative proposal, just as at the recent session of the URS Administration, we have explicitly mentioned that to improve our work other than co-opting all productive and related ideas, it is extremely important to listen carefully to criticism and critical remarks that can contribute to our improvement and improvement. In the amendments to the URS and the criticisms of the LDP parliamentary group recognized a change that brings new quality. Congratulations to the government of the Republic of Serbia that introduces a new style of communication with the opposition because it has the strength to recognise the contribution itself. I am ordering a statement of encouragement - feel free to make a constructive effort, as well as an LDP to make such a type of contribution, and surely the URS parliamentary group will notice and get the kind of attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7077	Two minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7078	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, concerning this amendment and the amendments that have been accepted by the Committee and the Government, I must say that we have not chosen which opposition is more similar, which is more beautiful. Someone's been passed the amendment, and someone's been passed the border crossing or as they say, just crossing. So it is not true that any selection has been made, at least as far as the parliamentary group is concerned. Our work was so public that he could know if anyone would recommend us – you know, accept the amendment to this opposition, not these. It is also not true that we have not accepted the amendments of this other parliamentary group. I will remind you that we have passed a whole law, a single MP who has proposed this law and wonders, in the day of the vote, we voted as a majority in favour of this law, it seems to me that it was a bill on amendments and additions to the Data Protection Act, and that there were barely 15 MPs in its parliamentary group. So his MP group didn't want to vote for the law, but we voted. So it's about quality and opposition and authority. As for these amendments, one parliamentary group had a series of amendments and, of course, when you accept one, the other, the third, that you will choose to accept the fourth amendment to that parliamentary group, and you will not take the amendment of that other parliamentary group that did not have that series. If we were to enter the reasons why she didn't have this series, and this other one had, then we would come up with data that this first parliamentary group still has a lot of public enterprises where through public enterprises it wants to preserve certain money, party personnel, etc. which does not interest these smaller groups of MPs. So I'm responsibly saying that we haven't made any selection, or accepted the amendment in a way that we like someone a little bit better, someone more similar and someone less. We simply agree on which amendment is more quality, which is more appropriate, therefore, never any selection, at least while I am in this parliamentary group, and I think that certain MPs from the opposition know it very well. Either we accept, or we don't accept, we don't watch who signed the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7079	The time used by the parliamentary group is two minutes and 20 seconds. National MP Dragan Shormaz has his word, but he's not in the O.R. if he comes back to the O.R., he'll have his word. People's MP Olga Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7080	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I didn't expect these speeches from ours, but now I can say, call the coalition partners, they may have been once, but it seems to me they haven't been for many years. As for the allegations of individuals who hugged whom, referring to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who was being courted, the DHSS certainly did not. It is more than clear and familiar all these years ago that we know who was raving at them and who was courting Mr. Mladjan Dinkic a few years ago. With whom, among other things, he did power. As for the proposed member we're talking about, both members of 38th and 39th of these submitted amendments to those members. As regards Article 38, I have made it clear that I have proposed to amend that member, which reads that if, during the duration of the term of office, he is legally convicted of another criminal offence which makes him unworthy of the duties of the Director or is contrary to the public interest for which the public undertaking is established. I believe that such an amendment should be accepted by the team before this amendment is given in an explanation that this amendment is not accepted, given that the amendment of the MPs from the LDP parliamentary group has been accepted and that, among other things, the erasure of point 8 of Article 39 has been envisaged. If this point 8 of Article 39 is deleted, the team should have previously accepted the amendment that I submitted to Article 39. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7081	The time used by the parliamentary group is one minute and 30 seconds. Does anyone else want to participate in the discussion of details, the amendment of 39, which was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojisic and Karolj Cizik. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was filed by the peoples of Parliament, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of the Parliament of Olgica Batic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of Vesna Kovac submitted to the 41st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Olga Batic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7082	Thank you. I just hope that all the amendments to the SPO parliamentary group, DHSS, despite what is behind them, will accept my signature from the DS, and thus support both our legal knowledge and our expertise. Finally, in some ways, it shall also be paid back to all their amendments that were voted by this parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7083	Thank you. I'll say it again. The people of the Parliament of Vesna Kovac submitted to the 41st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, as well as the previous amendment submitted by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic to article 40. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7084	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Article 43. The draft law on public enterprises says public enterprises must have audited financial reports by authorised auditors. Then, attitude 2 says -- a public company whose founder, the Republic of Serbia, has a review committee. In the end, point 3. - The review committee has three members appointed by the Supervisory Board. A member of the review committee cannot be the director of a public enterprise. The Democratic Party of Serbia and suggests that a member of the 43rd change and read – a public enterprise whose founder of the Republic of Serbia has an authorised internal auditor appointed by the Supervisory Board. In fact, we are aware that public undertakings must have an internal audit of the final account or financial reports, but we believe that it is quite enough to have an internal auditor with a large number of people in the accounting and accounting services of these public undertakings, we believe that they can comply with all the legal regulations provided for by the DRI Act and the Accounting Act and that they can respond to this job. It means you don't have to form a three-member special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7085	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic submitted together to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7086	This is one of the essential amendments for us. I am pleased that the government has decided to accept it, and what remains is the issue of implementation, where we will have a very clear plan and role through the Assembly Committee. So, the amendment suggested that this member of the law was concerned that companies must publish their work programme, the business programme for next year, and that this would then be some kind of control of the work of those directors or the new management structure of each public enterprise. That wasn't enough for us. We have proposed an amendment which has now become an integral part, which is that a specific programme must be drawn up, if a public undertaking uses any kind of budgetary assistance or subsidy or has asked the Government for a guarantee of some borrowing or anything in that sense, that the public undertaking must then make an additional programme for the aid to be used. It's part of the amendment. The second part is the company's plan to make a exit plan or a situation that will no longer be needed to seek state aid, whether through subsidies or through guarantees, in a period that comes slowly or by improving efficiency and productivity. This is part of it. Of course, it's easier for every firm to make some kind of program. The point is, and this is the introduction of a new practice, it is to control the spending of money from subsidies, and I expect very seriously to engage all parliamentary groups and the Committee on Economy in monitoring the results of the implementation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7087	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7088	This amendment improves the legal text to the greatest extent, because it also has this fence in the final part of the amendment when it says that the company will make internal changes that will lead to it being able to operate with a reduction of such aid, in perspective. At the same time, it confirms the value of construction concepts, those that are not principled novelty, but are calculated by step, because otherwise it would not be applicable. It is not quite true that all public enterprises are filled and filled with party employees, and all the directors of the public companies of the blatant thieves who only watch how to exploit party power, to get rich, to let down the nation, the people, public expectations. This kind of publicly nurtured pessimism and cynicism in relation to public good, far from the truth. There are many other problems that burden the efficiency and economic performance of public enterprises, and one is that the idea of social policy led through the public and municipal sectors has been addressed. Is there any courage to ask the question of the market price of services provided by the public sector? It is precisely because it does not want to cause dissatisfaction, that public enterprises are fully unprofessional, outside of the market social policy through the prices of their services, and that must then be subsidized. We can't just easily remove public enterprises from the subsidy program. The steps of the subsidy restrictions have already been made to limit the mass of profits for all public sector enterprises, and this is just another small step forward in treating our economy from subsidisationism and the public sector from the lack of market responsibility present.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7089	Two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7090	As a parliamentary group of countless times in the National Assembly, we have advocated a more complete and comprehensive control of the spending of subsidies, which I think is the general interest, the interest of every political party, the interest of the state. With respect to everything Mr. Andric and Mr. Milenic have said, I would agree with that, but I say that society and particularly political parties representing citizens in the National Assembly should be interested in giving the necessary subsidies, examples for the sake of, the railways of Serbia, because they are everywhere on state subsidies, but we also know that our subsidies do not operate on a modern system of organization, that management with the way of reasoning is from 30 years ago, that huge resources are being poured out there, and that the average speed of our trains is 35 to 40 km per hour. Therefore, if we need to control, if we need to help the railways, we need to see every dinar without talking about JAT, which is in a generally known state, but at the same time we know that JAT management is receiving enormous wages compared to receiving at the level of the world's most developed countries. Therefore, if so much resources go to JAT in the railways, then it is perfectly normal that we have as much control over the spending of these funds as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7091	It was used a minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7092	All that you have now stated in the discussion was also the reason why the government accepted this amendment. We also believe that it must be discontinued by granting subsidies without any control of the efficiency of the use of subsidies. Already now, if this law is adopted, all public enterprises will have to deliver a programme to make plans for 2013, and thanks to this amendment, they will also need to deliver how they think to increase business efficiency and to reduce the state's allocation to their business. First of all, I think of the following companies that are currently the biggest users of subsidies, you mentioned railways, they use about 15 billion dinars a year and are the biggest users of subsidies. The second place is the GSP of Belgrade with about 10 billion dinars of annual subsidies, and then coal mines with underground exploitation, Resavica, which has something below three or four billion dinars. However, it's good that this amendment, which is why we've accepted it, is supposed to be so-called. Implicit subsidies, i.e. liquidity guarantees which are essentially subsidisation and there was the "Serbigas" biggest user, as well as the JAT, which you were also talking about. All these companies will now have to, when they deliver their plans to give, and all the others who use subsidies and elements that they think it will reduce in the next period, which the costs will cut, and in that sense it is good and thank you for improving the law with this good amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7093	The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7094	Article 50 of this Law states, of course, in Article 2, first of all, that for each calendar year of enterprises, i.e. public undertakings, they adopt an annual business plan and on 1 December of the current year for the following year. All this plan should contain, and planned revenues and expenditures and price services and employment programmes, etc. Article 5, which the DSS gives its amendment to, says that – adopted programmes of public enterprises whose founder is the AP or local self-government, delivers these reports, so it stands out to the ministries, the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Simply, we believe that this position of the 50th should be deleted, because these are large-scale business programmes, sent to all these ministries. We understand that you need to control both income and expenditure, services, or prices of these services, and, of course, the number of employees and the amount of pay. However, we think that we should find some more appropriate way, perhaps some shortened form, to say, or a shortened form of report, to which local self-government, which should first be responsible, is how these public enterprises at its level, or the AP, operate, to eventually execute these ministries that are in charge of getting all these reports. We believe that suffering these reports is a matter of non-supervised nature. There is a better, perhaps more meaningful way to have insight into the work of these companies, to have insight into all of these items, which contain the annual business plan, and to imagine 650 of these public enterprises, from the local level of inlinivoa AP, are all being sent to these resolution ministries, i.e. the five ministries that are supposed to accept, I suppose, analyse and monitor this work of public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7095	I thank you, does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Donka Banovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, the MP Vesna Kovac submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic and together the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Čizik submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7096	I have submitted this amendment for the reason that, firstly, in the Law on Public Enterprises, it is not the place where budget execution should be suspended, it was the place in the Budget Law, on the one hand. On the other hand, although I have nothing against financial discipline and I believe that everyone at every level of government should be responsible for the work of their public enterprises, I believe that too severe penalties are provided for in Article 55 of this law, because it is intended to suspend the full implementation of the budget towards local self-government, the city of Belgrade and the province. This could lead to the financial collapse of a certain local self-government, which does not have enough of its own income. On the other hand, penalties against public enterprises and individuals who are responsible, not citizens, could have been resolved in a different way. If I say, I support every financial discipline and responsibility at every level of government, these measures are too strict, and since the government is yet to regulate the suspension procedure, the Budget Law made it clear that this suspension may be the longest until 31 December 2013, and in a law that is not armed, it is not clear how long this suspension can take and how many problems can bring this solution to a local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7097	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7098	We have formulated this Article 55, in this way as you have in the bill and have not accepted your amendment for the reasons that, as you said, we want to introduce financial discipline in the entire public sector and that in other laws we have not found the mechanism so that we control the possible breach of payment deadlines by public companies. So we can do that when it comes to the control of payment deadlines with the Republic, the province, the locals, but not with the public enterprise. This is a mechanism that, of course, we don't want to apply, but we have to have some kind of threat to sanctions, which is a temporary suspension of the transfer, or part of the income from profit and profit, if it's the province, in case, just for these two things. In the event that economic policy rules are not respected in the field of profit and employment policy, which means that someone is stepping up and hiring in the administration too many people, or that with some enormous wage increases that do not comply with the general economic policy, or if these payment deadlines are not respected, if obligations are taken over, and are not paid to the private sector, transfers are suspended temporarily, until what was subject to such sanctions is corrected. It is, therefore, a mechanism for non-compliance with financial discipline, otherwise it will not apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7099	The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7100	Just to point out that this isn't just about paying deadlines and receiving extra workers, it's about getting adopted in the first place, meaning not doing any part of the adopted programme of public enterprises. In that I say, I advocate that everyone is responsible for their mistakes, but it seems to me that in this case we would bear the consequences of citizens, that is why I have proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7101	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7102	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Given that the amendment is the same, with everything Mrs. Vlahovic said, I will only say that this is one in a series of amendments submitted by the Social Democrats League Group of Vojvodina, which relate to the same thing. In fact, we have tried a whole series of amendments in a way to alleviate this extremely paternal attitude towards the AP and local self-government, which is being introduced through this law, because we generally don't think that it can be a good thing, not only when it comes to this area, but also otherwise. What concerns us, of course, is that throughout the law, AP Vojvodina is treated equally as the local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We still believe that it should have a different treatment compared to a whole series of local self-governments, and even in one amendment, it also talks about the committees of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, although the promoter would have to know that MPs work in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, not the committees. As we see, although this amendment, as well as Mr. Mikovic's amendment, has been very mysteriously rejected as technically incorrect, we see that there is a willingness to change such a thing, so that the purpose of this amendment is to abolish such a paternal and non-compromising relationship with the authorities of local self-government and the authorities of the AP, since it is nevertheless citizens' representatives. Having great understanding of what this article wanted to achieve, we feel that it is not the place in this law and that there is a way to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7103	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7104	We will remain firm in the position to remain that position 55, as suggested. Yesterday, in a debate on amendments, on the Law on the Limitation of Payment Times, I said that our intensities were not only to establish the regularity of payment for 45 days by all state authorities, from the Republic, the province, to local self-government, but to first help and to clear old debts. These old debts exist on all levels. There are also in the Republic, that's what I was talking about, the debts to pharmacists, the debts to the tolls, the construction industry. There are in the province, I was informed by the circuit finance secretary that the debt is about four billion dinars. There are in local self-government debts for committed and unpaid capital investments. If we want to and we want to clean up our debts literally to all the structures of the previous period, we need to build a system so that we don't allow the creation of new debts in the future. There is no way to establish a new system unless there are penalties for those who do not want to respect it. The lawyers know better than I do. Any norm without a threatened effective sanction is essentially easily played. This was the only option that we found effective sanctions for the case of non-compliance with financial discipline in the next period we want to implement in both the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina and in all cities and municipalities and in public enterprises. So, let's cover a full public sector. That was the only reason we put a member like this. It's said to be applied only in these two cases. This is clear from the formulation in Article 55. It's a temporary suspension until these other laws and financial disciplines are respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7105	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7106	I couldn't get to know if there was a bar in the form of a draft sublegal act set out in Article 2. The bill, as the government is said to be closer to regulating the suspension procedure under Article 1(1). We should be able to practice that when we get the bill in the process that if we don't have a draft sublaw, at least we have the basics here. Another thing, if it exists, I don't see why it wouldn't be in the text of the bill itself. These are the reasons why I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7107	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7108	Mrs. Komic, I am authorized representative. I don't know if you're taking away my time or by amendment. No amendment to this article, in my opinion, should be accepted, nor should this one. The minister was absolutely right there. We have a lot of examples at local level, and public enterprises are working with great downs because of the irresponsible way of working, doing business, and yet all these public enterprises need to be prepared for the market way of doing business. You only need an example to check it out. Here, check all public enterprises, public heats or public housing companies dealing with the central heating of citizens, and use oil and lubricating as fuel. Everyone's been unable to function and work since NIS was privatized. Everyone's making huge losses because they're used to working the old way when NIS hasn't been paid in a few years. Such a way of working and doing business in Serbia must be completed, it must be interrupted, because it is all public debt. We need to have able directors. That's why this law is good that it's passed in such places, and we have to leave this article in 55. So, the state must have control over the next period, but always as long as these public enterprises are, whether they're local self-government, AP Vojvodina or a public enterprise founded by the government. Look at what's going on in France right now. The president of the state has decided that no more director of a public enterprise can drive an official car at any level. We were just talking about whether we should. It was even an hour ago on the subject, using official cars. When the state is in a particular problem, it has to react. Serbia is in trouble. He's got big economic problems, and he's got a big public debt. This must make everyone, including local public enterprises more responsible, no matter who the founder, City Assembly, municipalities, Belgrade City, the AP Vojvodina or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we support this bill. Of course, we agree with the minister, that this member should not be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7109	It's been used two minutes and thirty seconds since the authorized representative's time. Before we move on to the debate in particular, we will approach the confirmation of the mandate to the MPs. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Assembly for vacant seats in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the RIK on the assignment of seats to the MPs in order to complete the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Vesna Rakonjac, elected from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic and MP Srdjan Milivojevic, selected from the election list for a better life – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the decisions of the RIK and the report and the proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly found confirmation of the mandate for the MPs Vesna Rakonjac and Srdjan Milivojevic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you and wish you successful joint work in the National Assembly. We're continuing our work. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7110	I don't see anything wrong with introducing financial discipline. The price will not be paid by citizens, as citizens will pay through uncontrolled employment in public enterprises. Public enterprises should provide a quality, efficient service, but be at a relatively affordable price, whether it is transport, heating, water or wastewater. Is that possible now? It's not because of this uncontrollable employment in public enterprises, especially at the local level. We in local public enterprises have a bunch of directors, deputy directors and various bosses and a bunch of people who don't actually do anything. Of course, such an amount of employees will also have to reflect the price of services provided by the public undertaking. That's why I think the citizens will just support seducing order and discipline in public enterprises and working for the benefit of the citizens, not for the benefit of the parties who employ their staff there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7111	It was used a minute and twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7112	Thank you. I would refer to what MP Shormaz said. It would all make sense what he said and I would agree with all that the problem is only public enterprises whose founder is local self-government and only public enterprises whose founder is an autonomous province. What about the republican public enterprises that are in such terrible minuses, where I believe that the minuses of certain public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic, are greater than the minuses of several local self-governments, which is why, among other things, this member is problematic. In that case, the Republic itself will suspend the implementation of the budget. This member is much more serious than it seems at first sight. Here he says that unless public enterprises whose founder is a local self-government or AP do not respect the deadlines for the reconciliation of these public enterprises to agricultural entities, the finance minister may issue an order to suspend the transfer of the corresponding part of the income tax and tax on the profits of the AP-related income tax on the city of Belgrade, i.e. the transfer of transfer funds from Serbia's budget to the local self-government unit. Transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are extremely important sources of funding for many local self-governments. What does the word "can" mean? In what situations does he want, in which he won't? Because it always happens or only happens sometimes and what it means temporarily, how temporary it really is. That is why I believe that this member or should be seriously amended so that all MPs are clear on what this is about, or that our amendment or colleague Vlahovic should be adopted in which we suggest that this be regulated in a different way. Given that these are very important funds available to the AP and local self-government units, we do not feel that it should leave this arbitraryly, as it introduces an extremely dangerous alternist relationship between the Republic of Serbia towards the units of local self-government, according to the AP where it really creates an atmosphere in which only companies seem to be public whose founder is local self-government or whose founder is an AP problem. I don't know what's wrong with Serbian Ways, what about the railways, what about the EPS, what about Serbiagas? These are all the companies that we endlessly in this Assembly give guarantees that they continue to be in debt, and citizens in local self-government and citizens in the AP will be punished in such a way that we will remove very important funds for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7113	It's been used for three minutes. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7114	You're wrong. You asked whether the Republic would suspend its own budget. The answer is that although you may not expect it, it has not been done so far. This is prescribed by the Law on the limit of payment deadlines and prescribed by the Budget Act for 2013. Also, for the republican public enterprises sanctions are regulated by a member of the 54th law. Article 55 regulates sanctions for the province and local self-government. The Republic public enterprises have no share of the profit tax, so we can't threaten the sanctions that way. The threat of sanctions for republican public enterprises is a suspension of profits in the entire public enterprise. Profits are now paid by the special sector at the finance ministry certifying each month certain forms based on which payouts are made. This means that if a republican public enterprise, for example We can make a decision to suspend the payment of earnings to a complete enterprise and that is contained in article 54 of this law. The same sanction, only through another way, we have for both the province and local self-government. So we have exactly the same criteria just a kind of sanctions vary, depending on the available options. Therefore, there is no pateralism towards the province or the locale, but rather a strong attitude towards the entire public sector, including the Republic in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7115	The word has the folk's letter, Alexander Jerkov, right to replication, and then Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7116	To be clear, I have no objection to the punishment of every company operating in a way that is irresponsible, which does not respect the discipline prescribed by law. It's okay to punish the company. The funds that are abolished by local self-government and the AP do not belong only to the company, they are important funds belonging to the budgets of local self-government and the AP. Let those companies be punished, not punished by other citizens who should somehow benefit from that budget. If possible, find a way to be the same to public enterprises whose founder is the Republic and those whose founder is local self-government and AP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7117	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7118	The minister has already mostly said that, given the mention that MP Jerkov would agree with me that it is, but reads in article 54 for public enterprises at the republican level, leaving their founder as the government of the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem? Why can't public enterprises be punished at local level? Because he's not the founder of the government. There's no way to take different punishments from this way. I'm going to tell you that the transfer funds if some public enterprise, here I said about heat, make a minus 300 million dinars in one year, how do you think that minus is covered? By taking the mayors from the transfer funds they receive from the municipality and transferring them to the public enterprise. How, then, and how does social policy run, what about infrastructure, how to prepare the ground for new investors, industrial parks and everything else? All of this is due to the irresponsible management of public enterprises. Why? Because so far we've had a party click in public enterprises, not capable and professional people who run them. That's why it has to be regulated this way. There's no other way. You're saying it takes public enterprises to be punished. In what other way? You tell me when they should be, so suggest it in what other way, that you know it's systematically possible? No, they're being plowed to take care of in a more responsible way of local self-government, not to take care of at all, of hiring. If I told you this year at the Greens in Smedereva, which can never be profitable, no greening can be profitable. It's always the cost, the need, but always the cost to be taken care of. At Greenie in Smederev, 154 people have been employed since the new year. It's like there's so much to bathe in parks of space right now and what I know. It's all nice, but 154...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7119	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7120	This isn't a newly founded company, it already existed. I have time authorized, not a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7121	You're entitled to a replica, so I'm saying it's two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7122	I didn't say it was a replica, but I'm talking like this, but it's okay, I'm done. That's why this member needs to stay the way he is. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7123	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7124	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I truly support the introduction of responsibilities, personal responsibilities towards everything that happens in public enterprises, at all levels from locals to the province to the Republic. We are witnessing that in this Assembly under the the thesis of paternalism or the threat of Vojvodina's autonomy, there has been almost a month of political defence by the Vojvodine Development Bank, which the minister at that time suggested was unsustainable in the way the AP planned to do. Now it's happened to that bank, or the Vojvodine Development Bank, what happened. Will someone be responsible, was it the Minister's well-meaning suggestion or was it an attack on Vojvodina's autonomy? So I really don't think there's any reason to deal with politics and everything that's proposed to be true for everyone in all Serbia's territory, to translate always and find themselves injured that it's an attack on the AP Vojvodina, and it's a lot to defend it from all tools and weapons, and there's no argument for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7125	The time used by the parliamentary group is a minute and 20 seconds. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7126	Thank you. I also strongly support this legal solution because local self-government has received 40 to 50% more money thanks to the Law on the financing of local self-government than they had before. This money is not for those who run the city, this money is for citizens at the bar. So, for the better life of citizens at the bar. This does not mean endless employment in public enterprises or in public institutions, and therefore there is a great need to limit in some way spending money that is not in the interests of citizens. I would remind you that the debts made by local self-government are also public debt and that at a time when the full consolidation of money we have is really necessary, budget money is one of the necessary steps. I come from a city known for its completely uncontrollable employment in the public sector. That's why I'm asking the team to keep this. There's a public company in my town, "Vodovod", that's been circulating for a long time between employees, that it's desirable to get to work as soon as possible and not go out during breakfast, because there are fewer chairs than there are employees, so you can lose your chair. So, fully controlled employment in public enterprises or institutions is something that really needs to be reduced to a reasonable measure. Of course, directors have to take responsibility, because in my town too, the story is that sometimes the easiest thing to do is to get a job by becoming the director of a public company. So I fully support this legal solution and the law in general, and I don't think we should make any changes to this part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7127	It's been used for two minutes. Another minute left at the parliamentary group's disposal. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7128	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd just like to pray that there's no change in the thesis here, no one here is trying to defend uncontrollable employment in the public sector or to claim that it's not in local self-government. Especially interesting are discussions of those MPs belonging to parliamentary groups whose parties are known for not hiring anyone in the public sector, they never did, and hiring by party membership is something that is otherwise extremely foreign to these parties and is not known to them. No one here is talking about local public enterprises doing bad business. No one's talking about non-uncontrolysed employment in the public sector. After all, all MPs come from different local self-governments and can say that it is in these local self-governments that is in power, these are the things that are happening, which is the problem that exists in Serbia independently of any party. That's why you don't have to talk to anyone to defend it. But what he's trying to defend here and what's proposed by the amendment is regulation in any way a little more precise than what conditions, in which situations and how he can be suspended from executing a very significant income from the local self-government of the AP Vojvodina. This isn't about the AP Vojvodina. It is about local self-government across the Republic of Serbia, not just those in Vojvodina. I am simply surprised that any of the MPs can defend such a measure that, under absolutely incriminating and unclear circumstances, can eliminate an important source of income to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7129	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7130	I don't feel like this was sent to the SNS bar because the SNS isn't doing it, nor have I ever accused or said that someone has bad intentions with that amendment that he has submitted or that he wants to keep the current situation. It's simply not true that SNS can selectively, it's a very clear member, so whoever makes a downfall and who does irresponsible business, who increases public debt, can be punished. It cannot be punished by someone who works in plus, it clearly states in Article 55, or who does at least what basic acts provide for him. I don't see what's unclear here that can be used, that if there's malice in everything. As far as SNS is concerned, what was said by Miss Jerkov, we don't feel like a problem here, because we see it. We also supported this law. Soon it will be in the procedure of the Public Procurement Act. Fighting corruption and crime, if someone today is not clear to lead, I don't know how it's going to be clear. So, we are doing what is necessary to improve the situation in the country, change and move for the better, and that reformed Serbia, more responsibly, would be a better business environment and thus a more competitive member of the European Community, the EU, one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7131	The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic. It's available for one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7132	The United regions do not feel that this law is in any way jeopardising local self-government, or denying them the right to transfer funds. It only temporarily restricts the transfer of irresponsible local self-government. Yesterday we had an opportunity from some parliamentary groups to hear criticism about such irresponsible local self-governments that spent money irrationally. We believe that this legislative proposal is exactly how support has been given to those who have treated the citizens adequately and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, irresponsibility has no game or color. She only has a name and a last name. This law is, in fact, the introduction of an adequate criminal policy towards those who do not do things absolutely in accordance with the legal framework. Of course, inapplicable to such a law will lack the expected effects that are to be achieved. So, the URS will support the proposal that the government has given us precisely in order to introduce an adequate and criminal policy and to remind us that responsibility comes first.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7133	The time of the URS parliamentary group has been used. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7134	Thank you. Now I have a question, if everything is absolutely clear in this article, why does it say - in which case the minister in charge of finance affairs can issue a warrant to suspend the transfer of the corresponding part of the tax? Why doesn't it say - the finance minister is issuing a warrant to suspend the transfer of the corresponding part of the income tax? Why does this discretionary right of the minister to decide whether to do something or not? Why doesn't he do it anyway? Why is there no obligation, why is there no provision that this will happen in any case? Excuse me, I come from the local self-government, from Novi Sad, where we have a recognised government that has in a very strange way made a congregation majority. I am a witness personally to the way that all committees in local self-government are forced to change sides and how all these local self-governments are appropriated. I believe that in every local self-government in Serbia, a public enterprise can be found that meets the conditions for the entire local self-government and its budget to be deprived of very important funds. Is this going to be a way to politically imitate local self-government? With personal experience and as a citizen of the New Now, I'm sorry, I have the right to ask or have the right to doubt. Another misunderstanding is this word "temporary." It's very important what it means temporarily, and it's very important to define it by law, not by the procedure of temporary suspension, which at some point will be regulated by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7135	The time of the parliamentary group has been used by this. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7136	Your colleague gave you an explanation. This is because the government will be closer to regulating the suspension procedure and defining everything, in which situations it takes, how long it takes, and it will be the same for everyone, no matter who is in power in which municipality, because this is a law relating to the whole state, to a complete public sector. It's a legal formulation, but the point is, whoever's irresponsible must have some financial sanctions. It is temporary for the reason that when everything goes back to normal, normal operation and funding of transfers continue. So there was no other way. Why local self-government and local public enterprises? Because they're their founders. There's no one to make them. That's why this mechanism was chosen. The complete matter will be governed by a sublegal act, as referred to in Article 2(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7137	The national emissary of Alexander Jerkov, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7138	That the provision will apply to everyone, I can only believe your word, because we absolutely can't see it from the law. Don't mind, I'd choose not to trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7139	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a re? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a re? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7140	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. This is, in addition to the amendments concerning the possibility of a party official becoming a director of a public enterprise, another amendment that the government did not accept, second to the importance, which is why we were prevented from voting for this law in the end. With this amendment, in order to explain, we asked for information to be pooled on all public enterprises and as a place where possible, we located it as a website, a website of the Ministry of Finance. According to the minister, and thus for the past 10 years, the finance ministry has been a roof ministry for all public enterprises in Serbia. The essence of this amendment is much more than some website. Once again, who knows which way in these few days of debate, that we don't really know how many public enterprises there are, we don't really know who the directors of these public enterprises are. We don't know what their plans are, their programs, their losses. In a certain way, and only the Ministry doesn't know that, except in individual cases when it's particularly interested. With this member of the law, the Government predicted that there was some kind of public protection of work or public interest in the work of public enterprises. But we don't think that's enough. It's not enough that there's just a certain fact that the public is mandatory and that all these things we've talked about before must be made public, because, in my deep confidence, and I'm sure you'll all agree, that control is only possible with quality information. Quality information, for her, is not enough just for some information to be published, for that information to be made available first of all. Available in one place, easily available, not only to MPs, but to anyone who cares. There's no such place today. If we didn't adopt this amendment to the end, then the obligation to publish all these things we talked about earlier would exist on local websites of public enterprises. Since we don't even know what the public enterprises are, how are we going to find, if we want to control them, their websites? I think this is a very essential thing. The reason the amendment was rejected, doesn't explain to us, is not enough to explain why. It is said that the public of work is already foreseen in this article. That's true, but it's not an answer to the question we're asking. This is completely, all that we talked about in four or five days, from a ranking list of candidates that will be published after the final contest, about election solutions, explanations, why not the first candidate, not the second candidate on the list, but the third one, the business programme, the subsidy spending programme, the plan to get out of the subsidy, it all completely loses its meaning, unless it's united in one place, on the Ministry's website and if it's not available for every Serbian citizen to look at it, of course, unless it's a business secret. Without this step, all the control possibilities provided for by this law, by the public, are limited in one good way. It will exist for large companies – Telekom, mail, airport, it was mentioned, because they have public interest. But at the first level below, it will not exist, because no one even knows that there is a site, for example, you said the City Transport Company of Belgrade, on which a subsidy spending plan will be announced. You know what, I think we should go to a public meeting in the public interest and provoke public pressure on people who manage all public enterprises, not wait for the public to try to get some information and then control them in such a way. We deeply believe that he is essential, although he is seemingly banal. We ask that once a web site be published in summary everything that is related to public enterprises. Essentially, believe me, if on one or another, however difficult it is, it can be to open a special internet, it is not a topic at all, unless all the information about all public enterprises is united, however difficult it is, however difficult it is for every local public enterprise to send everything the needs of the law, but believe me, it is absolutely necessary, that at least some general control exist by the media, on the part of the professional public, and by the Assembly, and by, as it would say, all of the interested parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7141	It was used three minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. You've got three more minutes at your disposal. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7142	No matter how much we haven't accepted this amendment, we'll do it in practice. We simply didn't want to commit ourselves to a bunch of jobs that we've already taken over in control, limiting payment deadlines, establishing the "IT" system, the Treasury, the Tax Administration, so now we take this thing as a commitment and, in some short time, we do, I'm afraid we wouldn't do it physically. We want to do this and we will do it, you will have the opportunity to see me in the Assembly, the moment we end up teaming up a sector that will deal exclusively with this problem. He exists now, but I must admit that the congenital condition I inherited from my predecessors is relatively weak and very few people deal with it. We're going to raise that level, so by the end of the year we're going to name the Assistant Minister of Finance, in charge of an area exclusively of public enterprises. We've already done a new systematization, and we'll probably hire more experts in the sector. When they're ready, surely there's no reason for them to put all that information they're getting together on one website. Your idea is completely acceptable to me and that's what we're going to do. I simply didn't want to accept, in addition to all the other priorities, the obligation of a time limit when it would be. I hope it'll be over next year, for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7143	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7144	Thank you. The Honored Prime Minister and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and the People's Parliament, this parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 65, which regulates transitional and final provisions and quite contrary to what the Government states in its explanation, the objective of this amendment was not at all, nor will any amendment be a prolonging of any period, in particular not to extend the deadline for the harmonisation of public undertakings' acts, but to give just enough time, in order to bring these acts in line and thus not to extend the deadline for achieving the objective of this proposal of the law, which is certainly a depolitisation of the management of public enterprises. The best would be that it would be best to propose a period of a month, but just practice, unfortunately, in that sense denies us and suggests that it usually takes a somewhat longer time to coordinate the founding acts. Of course, if the government considers that its solution set out in the bill to be good, then I think there is no need to move on and I think that any debate on this subject is still pointless, although I believe that this amendment is correct and that it should be accepted. Also, I would like to suggest that with regard to the amendments tabled by LDP MPs to Article 62, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of these amendments, because we find them absolutely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7145	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 65, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposing representatives adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7146	Thank you. This amendment in the transitional and final provisions implies the harmonisation of acts of public undertakings with this law. Since we had an amendment in Article 2 in which we excluded the part and the possibility of setting up public companies in the field of information for general activities of social interest. Then, on a proposal from the LDP parliamentary group in 65, and in co-operation on the committee itself, we came to the next formulation. An attitude reads: "In public companies in the field of information, where no property transformation has been carried out until the date of entry into force of this law, the provisions of this law are applied until their ownership transformation. "In view of the specific status of certain public undertakings in the field of information and in terms of the laws and regulations governing this matter, it is necessary to adopt this amendment in order to comply with the amendment, i.e. with the adopted part which will become part of the law on Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7147	A minute and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7148	Dear Chairman, can you tell me how much time I have from an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7149	You have three minutes and 30 seconds left, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7150	I'll try to speak in summary. This is an example of an amendment being made to satisfy a public debate that was initiated quite politically, let's not say, heterically, but out of the need to give a little political debate on importance, although the bill itself does not contain sufficient provocation for that. So, in the proposal for a law on public enterprises, there was absolutely no idea, nor was there any connotation in the text that would indicate that the government is planning to develop in the public information system. They are listed, as companies, in the field of public information in the definition of a public enterprise because it is a factual reality. The entry into force of this law ceases to apply the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, and thus there would be no other law that would regulate the activity of a huge number of radio-television stations, which are the founders of local self-government, which are, as a rule, in the status of public undertakings. The fully parallel theme is the strategy for the development of the media in Serbia, which was made in the previous National Assembly meeting, and in co-operation with the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information, which the government has left in the amanet of the new government and the Minister of Culture and Information has started taking steps on this and has come up with certain information. Therefore, to remove any ambiguity, although there was no in the text, and to address the freely extended debate on this subject. No, there will be no establishment of new public enterprises in the field of public information. Of course, the Law on Public Enterprises will not be applied to the provincial, national public service, because there is no basis for this, but rather a framework in which to resolve, which will be quite uncertain, privatisations will be able to function existing public enterprises in this activity, just as not all information houses will seek their outcome and perspective in privatisation, because the strategy for further development of the media in Serbia includes the construction of regional public services. That's just what we're gonna talk about. This is just one pleonasmatic amendment that brings nothing new, but removes the doubts and doubts that have been provoked in the political discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7151	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 66, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposer adopted the amendment. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7152	I thank the chairman. So this member defines the date of entry into force of this law. Of course, an LDP proposal requires that some date be defined when a competition for directors will take place, as it has not been defined. The section adds: "Concursions for directors in all public enterprises to which this law applies will be called at the latest by 30 June 2013. So, the transitional and final provisions have not been defined so far, and this amendment and the proposal adopted by the committee has been precisely defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7153	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7154	Our idea that existed is to reduce any doubt that some public enterprises will not act under this law. There were words that this law was not retroactive, we agree with that, nor could it be without a special vote by the Assembly. This would mean that when supervisory committees are introduced instead of boards of directors, when the commission and other bodies provided for by this law are formed that they cannot remain directors and order non-executors who are not elected by competition. In that sense, we proposed an amendment, our idea was that it could be done a little sooner. We suggested, if I'm not mistaken, the end of March. We agreed to the arguments and agreed that the Committee recast our amendment and that until 30 June 2013. We think this is a solution that will help start changing public enterprises. Unfortunately, not to the extent that we, and I believe the majority in this House wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7155	It's been used for a minute and 10 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7156	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 30 March 2010 adopted unique methodological rules for the making of regulations. They refer to the making of regulations made by the National Assembly. The rules laid down in this Act apply to the making of laws, decisions and rules of procedure of the National Assembly and to other general acts adopted by the National Assembly. It was then defined in Article 35 of that Act that a single terminology should be used in the regulation, i.e. terms with the meaning already established. When the term in the regulation is used in one sense, it must be used in the same sense in the whole text of the regulations. In the regulation, no different terms can be used for the same term. If the default term meaning, i.e. in the introductory part of the regulation, is to be amended, the meaning of the term within the meaning of that regulation should be marked. The meaning of that term should be explained. When a new term is introduced into the regulations, that is to say, it must be clearly defined in the introductory part both by content and by volume. Why did I read this? Because of my proposed amendment, I suggested that Article 67 be deleted. Proposal for a law which uses the term "access to the property of a public undertaking of greater value". Of what greater value? From a small value to a higher, then a great one goes, or a great one goes, and a greater one, and the greatest one. That term doesn't exist. In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, the Government said that the amendment was not accepted for the reason that the determination of assets is a higher value subject to the law governing companies. Before I submitted the amendment, I was looking for the meaning of property of greater value. I couldn't find a term of property of greater value, I came across a term of acquisition and availability of large value assets. In Article 470. According to the company’s law on companies, if the company acquires or disposes of assets of which it is purchased, sold or market value at the time of decision-making, it is considered that the company has a high value of 30% of the book value of the company’s total assets shown in the annual balance sheet. So the Business Society Act only uses the term "great value" and does not use this new term that is undefined. In that very sense, please, when laws are proposed, if we are not already reading the other laws where the use of a term is defined, let us discuss the laws in the regular procedure, and let us be able to explain all of this. I am sorry, for example, that if the Committee considers that this text should exist, Article 67, and the Committee has opportunities and the Government has the possibility, if it considers it necessary, to define that the property of a public undertaking is of great value, if that is the case. This term doesn't know what it means.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7157	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7158	The chairman, please, how much of our parliamentary group has time? (President: five minutes and 20 seconds. All right, thank you. As an authorised promoter, I will support this amendment at the same time. I think it defines in one more quality way this member, but I will also take advantage of the opportunity, since this Law on Public Enterprises and generally on this set of laws has been a lot of talk, four – five days, if the debate in principle and the debate in particular took a lot of time. It shows that this is a very important law. In particular, the debate was more general than the debate in principle, but good. I wanted to say that the DS, regardless of the fact and not being angry that we were not accepted by any amendment, could not support this law and that some of these amendments were accepted, because we believe that, despite the good intentions made by the minister in his opening address, this law has not made a more significant step in the regulation of public sector, public enterprises and depolitisation of public enterprises. The minister also said there wasn't enough political will. I am not going into whether these political wills were missing in smaller or larger coalition partners, but the consequence of this law and its text is such that it could certainly have been a much more courageous step, in the sense that this area is being arranged in a way that we have fewer problems with public enterprises in the coming period. There is no specificity of public undertakings run or run by DS representatives or any other party currently in position and opposition, it is a system that enables people in some way too much and irrational business and work that does not correspond to the general interests of citizens, after all, which is why these public enterprises and according to the letter of the law are established. In that sense, we believe that our amendments, as well as the amendments of other parliamentary groups, were well-intentioned and I find it extremely politically inappropriate to say that the amendment is not well-intentioned and that, as the term of an esteemed MP has just been used. The essence of this law is the problem. The problem is provisions concerning opportunities for senior political officials to perform functions in public enterprises. The issue is what it means to freeze public functions. That question isn't fully defined. No question has been defined in a quality way who can call off and initiate the procedure for the removal of the director of public enterprises and the procedure itself, we heard yesterday, the elections, or the work of the competition commissions may be the subject of criticism. But if this is a good step for the public sector, public enterprises, we'll be happy about it. The Democratic Party, although not voting for this law, will vote for some of the laws proposed by this government and voted, as you know, for all those laws proposed by this government, which were pro-European and that went in favour of citizens. She would have voted for some other laws if they had been corrected by our amendments. Don't blame the DS for acting oppositionly. We are the opposition party and there was no practice in the previous parliament's call to wait for criticism at the government's expense, to attack that political party and to say that they acted in the previous period, in which they ruled. Gentlemen, you are now in power, you take full responsibility for running this country. You are also responsible if inflation has increased, and if prices have increased to a little, and if citizens live up there. You're responsible for all these things. You've been in office for almost half a year and you'll be responsible. Don't let us go back, that's not good. This does not answer the specific questions which were subject to this law. In that sense, if you wish, you will have a very constructive opposition of us that makes proposals, which does not behave contentiously. Don't make us do that. So in that sense, we will not support this law, first of all from the belief that it is not good enough to settle this issue in a better way. I'm not saying he lacks the will to take care of it, but in our opinion, he's not good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7159	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7160	The government believes that this law is an important step forward and, if we don't need support in something, we don't need support in courage. This has been shown by the complete government in many areas, from fighting corruption to economic measures. Indeed, as for courage, each had the opportunity at certain times to show how brave he is and how cowardly he is, how ready he is for reforms, and how afraid he is of reforming some political points. As far as I'm concerned, reforms have never been my side. On the contrary, I have always worked best with colleagues who have supported bold approach and problem solving, rather than pushing problems under the carpet. Why do I think this is an important step? Because it really introduces a large newspaper in the management of public enterprises, leads to their professionalisation, abolishs the boards of directors, replaces them with supervisory committees with far fewer members, only three in the locals, and five in the Republic at most. This avoids a huge cost and increases the efficiency of governance. The public will have insight into the results of these public competitions and will be able to criticise bad solutions. The only thing I can agree with, given that opposition MPs have really contributed to the final quality of this text, is that this can be better. It can be better if a political consensus is created in society to be perfect. This law isn't perfect, but it's much, much better than the previous one. Before this law was passed, my party decided to ban any party official from competing for any place in the state republican administration, for any position of director in the financial sector or in public enterprises. Anyone who wants to deal with politics should be involved in politics. Managers who want to manage the public sector should be professionals. That way we really respect what we said in the campaign before this law was passed. I have to tell you that from the experience of talking to the World Bank, they were, not just talking about the party I'm running, I can even tell you the pleasantly surprised quality of the new EPS management. So, the new team in the EPS is a real refreshment compared to the last 10 years. I have to point that out because that's what people at the World Bank say. We've had a meeting with them these days about various projects and it's a completely new and modern approach to governance. I have to say, it's about real professionals, so it's not about any party officials. I agree that such strategies as you have the management of Commercial Banks, the management of EPS, the management of the airport or some other public enterprises that I have not mentioned now should be extended to all businesses. I agree that's not the case at this point. I think this law will contribute to improving quality, but we all need to work together to make professionalisation work to the end, that tomorrow when we transfer the effects, and hopefully stability in public finance in the economy, and then also on citizens, we also have to motivate and greater compensation for all those who perform responsible public functions and that we have a country that develops faster. So I would disagree if this bill wasn't brave. Could he have been even braver, I say, depends on political consensus. Because there wasn't any of this in the previous period. Directors are set up by government decisions without any competition, without any criteria in experience, and here is really one important promotion. But I definitely can do better than this, and I hope we all try to do something like that in the coming years. Thank you to all who have made a constructive contribution to the final version of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7161	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7162	I am reporting on Mr. Srdjan Mikovic's amendment, and I believe that the explanation he gave is very useful, because the term really "greater values" is quite broad, and other regulations do not define it. As a parliamentary group, we are pleased that at the time of the major earthquakes on the political scene of Serbia, on the day the new government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, we have presented a clear political stance that I see now being accepted by other opposition parties. We have said that we will not be a harsh opposition, but that we will be a reasonable opposition, because all those laws and reforms that improve our society, which bring our country closer to EU membership, will be supported because we support all citizens of Serbia. In the meantime, I see that those who have truly imagined that they have the exclusive right to attach the European label to themselves and who have treated their coalition partners very incorrectly, especially to the SPO, by inventing some non-existent original SPO. Regardless of all our correctness, which between the two rounds of presidential elections wanted to largely present a political scene in Serbia, so that they would have absolute power and that of course came back to them as a boomerang. We are pleased that this kind of political consciousness has matured in this political party as well. I think this is a new quality in the work of this Parliament because we do not forget that in 2000 many MPs came armed to the Assembly. It was very difficult then to be an opposition. I think that this approach to Serbia's political scene, legal proposals, will benefit all partners on Serbia's political scene, and most favour Serbia's citizens. That's why I would agree with Mr Dinkic and immediately state a clear political stance that the SPO does not rush into anyone's arms, nor Minister Dinkic, and that the fact that we and LDP are a little more respected seems absolutely unfounded to us. I could now say after some discussions that some others are chasing in the arms of Mladjan Dinkic. We are not chasing into the embrace of Mladjan Dinkic or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are chasing in the embrace of a new, modern, different, better European Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7163	The time used by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is two minutes and 45 seconds. I'd like to ask you, colleagues, that we still respect the Rules of Procedure and Article 106 and talk about the agenda. National MP Ivan Andric has a word, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7164	I would use this end-of-the-end notification to say about this amendment, but of course the whole law. I think we could have taken an even bigger step, and that's why we're going to be divided. Whether it's a pleasure or not, I think we should wait for the results. As much as some team in some public enterprise today may be a refreshment or a burden, I think what needs to be crucial, which is that at the end or during that game we see what the result is and that's why we judge. I would like to thank all my fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Committee on Economy and, of course, the representatives of the Ministry because I think that even though we are not so distracted by the public, this has been one of the most important discussions in the past few years in the Serbian Parliament. All colleagues less or more, but in the vast majority, have helped to get this theme out of the shadows, to simply talk about it for the first time now, again, one of the biggest ones if not the biggest problem our economy has. For the first time, there was a small or larger open conversation here. The government will be pleased with the solutions, the opposition in part, yes, in part. Time will show if we were right, but what's the point, I think everyone is more aware of this problem today. What we can say is that the direction is one that is primarily crystallized in the debate, which is that more or less of each of us is a known problem and ways and solutions, they should remain the places around which political parties are fighting each other. In the end, what needs to be what it decides, it's the result, not the success of some PR or the way things are talked about. Once again, thank you to everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7165	National MP Srdjan Mikovic has been reported, but time has been used. You have the right to reply to the Minister's statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7166	Since Mr. Minister, while sticking to the agenda, he explained his position, or position of the government, on the amendment. I submitted an amendment to article 67, and I got an explanation and the truth in that explanation was also talked about courage. I didn't see much talk about whether a professional proposal was accepted, and there were many expert proposals in the amendments tabled. Among other things, we have tried to explain as professionally as to how uniform methodological rules should be applied and how the terms used in the Business Society Act should be consistently applied in this bill. That's indicated in the amendment. True, I didn't get that answer. No matter what I agree to be brave, I think in the texts of laws that come into the Assembly, it means the bill, and especially in the texts that come out of this high house, the National Assembly, it has to be in a certain way respect and expertise. That's why I don't see why we should be afraid of the expertise of all those who have well-intentioned amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7167	Anyone else want a word? The 68th Amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Kovac. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Olgica Batić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Ivan Jovanovic, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Dr Nenad Popović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milan Lapčević and Srdjan Sajn. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government on Amendments. Before we move to the particulars of the search, I remind you that MP Ivan Jovanovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 5. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs, Olgica Batic, together with Dr Nenad Popovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Lapčević, submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7168	The SPI Group and the DHSS have tabled an amendment to Article 1 which requested that this particular member be deleted because of the fact that the proposed law calls for an erasure of a provision which deletes the provision aimed at the Development Fund, namely the promotion of development and infrastructure. The proposer has not explained in a single word in this bill why he believes it is necessary to abolish the Fund's objective. Among other things, I must say that a few days ago, Minister Verici Kalanovic asked a question about the Development Fund, where she said in response that the main objective of the Development Fund is to encourage development, infrastructure. Furthermore, only the name of the Fund for Development indicates that the Fund’s objective is actually to develop infrastructure and that this objective of the Fund is abolished by such a member of the law. If the Development Fund will not have its future development goal, and we feel the opposite, it should have it, then only the existence of the Development Fund is in some sense ambiguous. I would also like to remind you that this objective is prescribed by the 2010 amendments and that it is prescribed precisely to encourage the development of infrastructure which, unfortunately, we are witnessing all of this, in Serbia extremely low branches, and that is why we believe it is counterproductive that this goal of the Fund's work that is currently being said – the development of infrastructure, is being deleted from this legal text, and on the other hand, I am glad that my colleagues from the other parliamentary group, i.e. from the DSS, have submitted the same amendment in the same text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7169	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic has been reported, and the DS parliamentary group has used time, there is no time for discussion in particular. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7170	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, of the Bill on the Development Fund, foresees that it deletes point 6 in Article 2 which says the Fund's objective is to encourage the development of infrastructure, with the reason that mainly when it comes to infrastructure projects, expensive and large projects and that the Fund does not have enough money to monitor these projects. Of course, also on the grounds that infrastructure projects should mainly, especially those larger, rely on resolution ministries or on public enterprises in relation to projects that are within their jurisdiction. The DSS believes that this point of this member should remain and continues to stand as one of the objectives of the Development Fund – encouraging infrastructure development. Why do we say that? Because without developed infrastructure, we simply cannot achieve the objectives, especially those to which the Fund is firstly undermining, and this is to encourage evenly rural development, especially those of undeveloped areas, encouraging the business of lawyers and entrepreneurs, and to point out just one more thing, encouraging employees. How important it is without all of this which is the basis of economic and economic development in Serbia, without developed infrastructure, roads, pipelines, telecommunications, electricity facilities, plumbing, no new investors, no new jobs, no economic development. As important as infrastructure projects are, it also says that most 80% of local self-government is back five or six years, all of its capacities focused on the infrastructure equipment of some new industrial zone, so as not to attract new investors, domestic or foreign, anyway to speed up economic development anyway, and I already said. For these reasons, the DSS believes that this member should remain. While I'm already working on the Development Fund, I'm going to use the time of the authorised representative and point out only some of the remarks they gave me when I was supposed to be talking about the Development Fund, the very businessmen from the municipality that I come from. It's simply in the interest of saying that too. Businesses say it should be excluded from the Development Fund programme, state-owned enterprises and should be financed from some other sources of funding. The conditions of credit for entrepreneurs and businesses should be evenly extended and the amount of credit to the company's credit rating should be limited, not according to the form of the organisation of that legal entity. Further, limit the period of loan approval to a month. Today we have a situation where the loans, i.e. requests for loans submitted in May or June of the month, are still not approved, I even have the information, and I want Mr. Minister to deny me if it isn't true, that since May 21st, the board of directors who is now in V.D. The state, nor approved new loans, so we have entrepreneurs and legal persons waiting eight or nine months for their credit to be granted. Furthermore, there is growing support for undeveloped areas and there is a stimulating interest, because without developed infrastructure, especially in undeveloped areas, we will have neither legal persons nor entrepreneurs to apply for these loans. I'm afraid a good part of this Fund's resources will go back to the legal entities and entrepreneurs from the already developed areas, so that those developed areas may need to destimulate a little bit with interest and undeveloped stimulate. Furthermore, for those companies that cannot provide a mortgage, it is simply a proposal from the businessmen, for various administrative reasons to provide guarantees to the Guarantee Fund, based on the credit rating, and among other things, to take a contract with a foreign buyer who clearly determines and sees what purpose business will go to, take business back several years, all those financial reports that say the company was doing business. The following remark would be, or suggestions, to fully accept the assessment of the skills that the fund has authorised, when it comes to some important assessments for the approval of certain loans. Before each session of the board of directors should, because mainly businessmen say they have not been informed of the deadlines for submitting requests before that session, and the results of the competition who received the loan and who did not receive the credit, the businessmen say they can no longer see or even more pointed out to me, not because I am from the DSS, that only at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica there was a report clear, transparent who got the loan from the Fund, who did not get it, for which reason he did not get it. Back and forth, they say, for five or six years, there is no clear report, transparent who got the credit, who didn't, why didn't, so there's just a suspicion that it's all regular and that there are reasons why they shouldn't know and see and that maybe some companies are getting loans, and they haven't met all the conditions. Finally, since there are plenty of certified consulting agencies, which work and co-operate with the Development Fund, it is proposed to unify the process in handing over documentation for the application of credits, because all those agencies certified are on the file of the Regional Development Agency, so how the Fund accepts and the skills on that list, it is simply their suggestion that these consulting agencies be involved in this work and that they can apply in a unified manner on behalf of business entrepreneurs at the Development Fund. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7171	Six minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7172	Here to respond to your amendment, we have essentially not accepted the amendment and we have kept the idea that the Development Fund does not finance infrastructure development, not because Serbia does not need infrastructure, but that we want to share business. So we want the Development Fund to deal with essential, only by encouraging entrepreneurship, by giving favourable loans to beginners, small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises, especially if they invest in undeveloped areas, and by financing infrastructure through other credit lines. We also showed this in the 2013 draft budget. It is our strategy to finance infrastructure from long-term sources. The Development Fund, unfortunately, cannot provide a 20-year-old loan, unfortunately. It would be good if he could, but he can't. We therefore take loans from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as multilateral and financial institutions for the financing of infrastructure, but mostly now in this period from China, even a billion and 200 million new projects for the development of traffic infrastructure, we will withdraw from China for three highways to Corridor 11, so the highway to western Serbia, then the Moravski Corridor of the Pojat-Preljene and the highway Novi Sad-Tunel through the Fruska Mountain to Rumi, in the first phase, then to Šapac and Loznica. So that's three priorities that we're going to finance with a long-term loan from China. They can also provide us with interest which is much lower. We are negotiating that now the interest on this new loan will be 2.5% per year fixed. So far it has been 3% fixed for the Zemun Bridge - Borča. As far as other countries are concerned, there is Russia financing rail projects, i.e. to start financing rail projects. The Czech Republic, too, is the Export Bank, Kuwait, which has just approved one loan for Prokop, to complete the work on Prokop, and we are negotiating with the United Arab Emirates, or the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, for a serious project to finance irrigation and deforestation throughout Serbia, where we would allow farmers to get incredibly favourable long-term loans to buy watering equipment, whether it is war or vegetable or fruit growing, and where the state would also use that money to build a secondary network of irrigation channels and to clean up the existing canal network. So, as far as we're concerned, we also have in our budget a guarantee for China's Exim Bank to continue working on the Kostolac thermal power plant, and in that sense, these are sources of funding, from foreign sources, we finance actually infrastructure. We wanted to leave as much money at the Fund's disposal as possible, only to give to entrepreneurs. You know that the Development Fund gives almost 95% of its resources to Serbian entrepreneurs, so these are domestic enterprises. Our goal is to encourage the fund to provide loans that are multi-risk, in less developed areas, because commercial banks do not want to or rarely do so, or give at much higher interest rates. Therefore, the priority is to help small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as all types of investment, entrepreneurs in undeveloped areas. As for the suggestions made by the businessmen, here are the Director of the Fund and the Director of the Legal Service of the Fund, so they have heard these remarks in person, and I hope that, as the business plan for the current year is adopted each year, many of these things will be appreciated. Some already exist, I must say, a differentiated interest rate lower for entrepreneurs in undeveloped areas, greater for developed ones. The lower form of guarantee, i.e., is simpler guarantees when it comes to undeveloped loans. At times, even a handicraft is accepted, such as the case of municipalities, the most underdeveloped municipalities of the so-called so-called city. the fourth group of development. I agree with you that we should improve the public in the work, that, in addition to the information the Fund normally makes, who received the loan, who was rejected, that the public may be informed about it because it is a state development fund. Banks, as you know, don't inform clients who get credit, who don't, but this is about one non-competition institution, and it would certainly be necessary to have a bigger public working in the next period. Finally, the answer to the question – why has the Fund Management Board not worked effectively since May? Because it didn't even exist when the government went into V.D. status. The board of directors was essentially not meeting, and changes to this law had just been required. These amendments were also made with the intention to cancel the Fund's work and that the Fund could, after the vote of these amendments and the appointment of the Management Board in accordance with the proposal that we have made, be ambushed, begin to approve already existing requirements that have justification, and, of course, later sits regularly and make decisions much more intensively, because we are now missing these funds in this fight against the crisis and we are looking forward to the closure of the Fund's work and therefore we look forward to what will soon, I hope that amendments to the law will be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7173	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7174	I thank you for this broad explanation. Of course, the DSS agrees absolutely that the foundation of the Fund and the core objective of the Fund should be to encourage entrepreneurship. That's why, through the discussion and when the budget was on the agenda, and when yesterday was this company tax law, we tried to move our amendments to infrastructure projects, knowing that these were expensive projects, that the Fund couldn't, that the state couldn't finance 100% of these projects in all local self-governments, so we thought that these funds, which are meant to develop local self-government, should be significantly increased, precisely for infrastructure development. On the other hand, we accept that there was someone V.D. State, that loans could not be granted, but we hold you by the word that future loans were granted within a month and that there was a full report, which received the loan, who did not receive the loan and for what reason did not get the loan? So hopefully next year, when we talk about this, we'll have a lot better information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7175	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7176	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, despite the government's failure to accept the amendment to Article 3 of that bill, which our MP group SPI and DHSS have just asked for the writing of a member we consider controversial. I think that the explanation given in the report, or in the opinion of the Government, which it does not accept our said amendment, is incomplete, incomprehensible and totally unacceptable to our parliamentary group. In fact, Article 3 of this proposal establishes the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to guarantee guarantees issued by the Fund. Such a provision of such a bill, I think it is absolutely unconstitutional, because without a decision from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no financial obligation can be established, the same republic. By the proposed provision, the powers conferred on the National Assembly are taken away, because instead of the National Assembly deciding whether the Republic will guarantee any obligation, just as proposed by the Law, that will be decided by the Management Committee for Development, and of course by the Ministers. By giving a republic to the Fund guarantee, in fact establishing a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for commitments in which the National Assembly was unable to decide, nor is it discussing, and thus the executive power, instead of legislative, is establishing a commitment for the Republic of Serbia, is anti-constitutional. Also, such a provision of the bill is contrary to Article 16(4). The public debt law, where it is explicitly prescribed that guarantees for the legal persons of the Republic of Serbia can be given, exclusively in the form of the law. However, it is now proposed that the Fund can issue guarantees, which is the executive power, while on the other hand the republic automatically guarantees those guarantees. This is what we believe to be a violation of both the violation and the circumvention of the Constitution, as well as a circumvention and violation of Article 16 of Section 4. Public debt law. In addition, the last sentence of the argument that the Government has not accepted this amendment states that the amount of the guarantee, which the Fund could have, will primarily be determined by the Budget Act. I must remind myself that the Budget Law is passed by the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7177	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7178	Here's to clarify, we just had the 2013 Budget Law, which this assembly voted on December 1st, envisioned other than all guarantees and direct borrowing by projects that were explicitly given, the possibility of additional republics in charge of the amount of guarantees, or up to 300m euros for the purpose of maintaining financial stability, to settle debts based on capital investments for local self-government and issuing guarantees to the Development Fund. So such a provision exists in one member, but is the maximum that has been set for next year up to 300m euros. In this way, the congregation gave its consent to the application of this article if it was adopted in the National Assembly. I'm going to give you an example of why we suggested that it stands in the Development Fund Act. It could happen, for example, that some shipyard gets a job working for overseas ships, and when you look at balance sheets, the shipyard didn't work this year, the previous year. It can't meet the conditions for the bank to grant him a bank guarantee. In such cases, if the Government considers that it can employ people, provide export income, it can give consent to the issue of a guarantee from the Fund, and the Fund now guarantees its state property and the guarantee in the balance sheet of the bank that accepts has the status of a first-class state guarantee. Thus, when supervisory is performed by the Central Bank, it is classified as low risk claims in class A. Today the guarantee of the Fund that is eventually issued is not classified. It was the NBS who suggested how to formulate this member legally, in order to have the possibility that in situations where the Government considers it necessary to invert with the Fund guarantee and thereby obtain a bank guarantee for a large business for a company, because it would otherwise not be possible to obtain it because it does not satisfy the conditions to obtain a classical commercial bank guarantee, and the state is in the interest of making it possible. This member allows us to do so, with the total amount available next year for this purpose being theoretically up to 300m euros provided that it is not spent on these other purposes under this member of the Budget Law, as I have already said, financial stability, local self-government. In practice, it'll be lower, but still enough so we can intervene in cases. We often complain about companies. We can go to a market, but we can't get a bank guarantee, we can't make export, we can't hire people. Of course, it is up to the Fund's professional services to examine whether the risk of such investment is low and to recommend to the government that we give such a guarantee with the consent of the Government. So the Fund itself can't do that, not even the Fund's board of directors. We open the possibility of flexibility to stimulate economic activity. That was the purpose of this article. The answer may not have been happily formulated why we rejected your amendment, but it is the core Serbian Parliament that gave consent to the use of this member to a limited amount of 300m euros in 2013. If there was no member of the law in the budget, this member of the Fund Act would be without effect, which means that every year the Assembly should set a limit as far as it can go for what purposes, and this purpose is set out in the draft budget law for 2013. Here, I'll give you another example. If some mining wealth is estimated to exist in Serbia that could bring benefits to the state through the state's entry into exploitation, it is hardly possible to find financing from the Commercial Bank if there is no such guarantee. In that case, the government can decide that it is a national interest to enter such a project, but yet the Assembly has set the maximum limit cannot be crossed. So there can be a lot of these situations. We wanted to strengthen the ability for the state to increase capacity for investment in the economy through this guarantee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7179	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7180	This amendment concerns Article 5, which is the amendments and additions relating to the composition of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to changing the number of board members, according to the current law, there were five members plus the president, and according to these amendments we have nine members plus the president. Most of the ministers and responsibilities covered by this Fund are listed here. We wanted to draw attention to the amendment to draw attention to the fact that no minister in charge of environmental protection matters has been listed here. So there's the intervention. After the minister in charge of energy affairs, we believe that there is also a need to add to the task of protecting the environment. We think it is very important to send a message to everyone that this Fund will fund and projects concerning environmental protection team before the 2013 budget, which I was talking about when it was on the agenda of the draft budget, that only 0.4% of next year's funding for environmental protection is allocated. The Environmental Protection Fund has been abolished. That's why we think this is where we should have been precise and clear. You've given me some unsettling explanation for why you can't do that, but your argument really didn't convince me that there couldn't be a minister who was in charge of environmental protection. That's one thing. So I think you have the space to accept the amendment, especially as at this moment it's the same person, so it doesn't change the number of board members. What could have been expected when you already entered into the amendments and additions of this law, is to propose some amendments and additions to the laws that would ensure a more transparent and responsible business and decision-making of the Fund itself when it comes to the allocation of funds. Minister, I suppose you know, my colleagues have been talking about this, that this Fund is not really in a good place when it comes to deciding who gets and under what conditions certain funds. I'm sorry that this is because this is a unique institution that needs first of all to encourage the development of underdeveloped environments, but in previous periods it could not be said that it is. Getting ready for this discussion, I can't argue, because I can't even verify it, but you have some economic analysts saying that nearly 50% of the development fund's assets in its existence are allocated to the owners of companies, large capitalists. I'm not going to use that word we use, tycoon, but you can deny me. This is what some economic analysts claim is so, so instead of encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises in poorly developed parts of Serbia, I fear that almost the whole of Serbia is underdeveloped, so that a worker is employed more, that these funds are being used in a way that may not have been needed. Since such a vote beats the Fund, then it was also for you to expect that you could through these changes and additions to fix it and fix the Fund's business in that sense. This was about no data and not being transparent, but I think we talked more about not being transparent at the end. So, on the site itself, you can't see very well, which is why some of the projects got the money, which is why some of them didn't. I'm talking about those stages before, that before the decision is over, it has to be more transparent. Perhaps another way was to form this board of directors, not only should there be ministers who are ruling majority ministers, so there is always a dose of concern that those companies and those entrepreneurs who have political protection or are in some parties that form power at that time, that they will be privileged. So, I'm speaking from some previous experience in the work of the fund. You don't have to be any detective, there's a "Citizens' Association" site that mostly deals with appearances or they think corruption is at stake. The site is a whistle. There you have at this point evidence, scanned documents saying that some people because they were well connected to the politicians at the time, were getting pretty big funds under incredibly favourable conditions. I won't speak individually about people or companies, but one firm received 34 million dinars in 2009, which is 300,000 euros, with an annual interest of 0.5%. It's nowhere to be found. On the site is also an example of a company whose owner was also well-connected politically, which received over two years 120m dinars, two payments for 2009 and one payment for 2010. You notice that I don't specify names or names of the firm, it wasn't my goal, but I think that when you've already entered the amendments and additions of this law, since you know for a fact that you're throwing a shadow at the work of the entire fund, you should have tried to prevent some changes and additions if there were.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7181	Five minutes and 22 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7182	First, about lending projects in the field of environmental protection, i.e. the subject of the fund, and the content itself has not been changed. So, the area is credited and approved by the credit fund, it will continue to be approved. You are right that it was probably better that it seemed that the minister was responsible for environmental affairs instead of energy, because the real fund does not lend large energy projects only if they are small. That wasn't so respected. If it had been with the correction, we could have replaced the environment, and the energy would have been out. If I had looked at it earlier, we could probably work it out. In this way, the Minister of Energy and Environment, or its representative, if he will be the State Secretary, will be on the Fund's Management Board, but independent of that, the lending of the area has been made possible by the Fund Act. When it comes to these last things, first of all, let me say that in that year that you mentioned everyone who has applied for development lending projects in underdeveloped areas, they get a 0.5% interest. Not that one company, but everything. This was contained in a fund programme approved by the government, and now that interest is 1%. So, don't be surprised 1% is interest, precisely because we've been saying all these days to encourage entrepreneurship in less developed areas of interest that are lower. It was 0.5% interest for everyone who participated there. That's why, I think there's room to think about the professionalization of the Management Board of the Development Fund itself. I'm going to think about this idea and I have to admit that we've first and foremost passed this law to unwind the work of the current fund and start lending. If we'd gone through more detailed changes, I'm sure there'd be room for this kind of promotion. My initiative was introduced for the first time by the provision that the minister should not be a member of the Fund's Management Board, but could be the Secretary of State. That whistle even once called me to personally approve of a company, and I have no idea who the company is or who the director is, or who approved it. The fund's professional service does that. Personally, I won't be on this board of directors of the new development fund. And I insisted the minister didn't have to be if he didn't want to, but to be a representative of the ministry in line with this proposal. I definitely don't mind having an additional professionalization of the Management Board in some subsequent changes as you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7183	The word has Donka Banovic's folk emissary, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7184	I'm afraid we didn't understand each other when it came to this amendment. The amendment is that after the words "the minister responsible for energy affairs and environmental protection". So, we didn't ask for an amendment to erase the affairs of energy, so just to add. It's practically the same person today. That's what the ministry's called, so by inserting this wouldn't increase the number, and that doesn't change anything. We did not ask it to be erased – energy, but only to be added – and to protect the environment. I know the interest on enterprises in undeveloped areas is 0.5%, so it's undeniable, but the company I'm talking about is from Belgrade, not Dimitrovgrad or Bosilegrad. So it doesn't belong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7185	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7186	The interest relates to anyone investing in the launch of production in undeveloped areas. It can be from Belgrade, Novi Sad, however, it is important to stimulate them to invest money in an undeveloped area. If they do, then they have the benefits of that interest. So it doesn't matter that the company isn't from an undeveloped area as a queen, it's important to invest money in an undeveloped area, to employ people living in the area. That's an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7187	National MP Donka Banovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7188	Now you're making me explain. The company that received the funds on the interest did not create new jobs in cities outside Belgrade. So that criterion is not satisfied, but in any case the MPs hold you by the word that you will seek to professionalise the work of this board of directors and to abuse them if there were, I do not claim, I am not a police inspector to claim it, that there would be no future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7189	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7190	Yeah, let's be perfectly clear. If a Belgrade company received interest money 0.5% and did not place that money in an undeveloped area, it carried out an unintended use of funds that is a crime. In that case, anyone with that knowledge or people from the fund should file criminal charges against the owners of such a company and investigate. Unfortunately, there was also a loan for beginners. A very beautiful and good intention to enable people to get loans from a fund without a mortgage, according to the model of the Norwegian incentive of entrepreneurs, and people because of the low interest they used and did not open businesses, they bought televisions, spent on vacations, etc. Criminal charges have been filed against them. So, the bottom line is that there can always be abuse of good ideas, but that's not a problem with the fund's programme, but it's gotta be prosecuted by those who abuse it, whether it's official, whether they're not purposelessly spending the funds. In that sense, I agree with you, and if you have that knowledge, let a criminal report be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7191	National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7192	I just said I'm not a police inspector. If I have knowledge because I've been googling, what the kids would say, then they've got the ones they need to have. Since you mentioned the word "supervisory" in this article, it is said that the Ministry of Finance has control over the work of the Management Board. I think it was in the previous law. Who oversees the fund, but in detail, how do these funds be spent once assigned to a user? You said you had cases of abuse. I know we don't have a microfinance law, and I'm sorry, because he would encourage people who don't have mortgages to take some incentive funds, but that's another problem now. In what way does the fund perform, how often, etc?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7193	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7194	In particular, these abuses detected in the previous start-up credit period were discovered because people employed in the field at the National Employment Service were given a mandate to control whether there really is such a company, whether they hired people, whether they invested. So, with the government's programme, we have authorized the National Employment Service to carry out these controls, because the Development Fund itself has its own headquarters in Nis, and there are several other branches. However, there are not enough people all over Serbia. That's why the National Employment Service is the one who can and should control that case. While I was at the Ministry of Economy, I personally gave the order to control it. As a result there were also criminal charges against all those who did not purposely spend the funds. That's what we'll do for all the other cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7195	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7196	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think I understand what you just said. The Fund approves funds under certain conditions, but does not control how they are applied. It is also written by the auditor in the report, when he controlled the Fund's work and it explicitly cited examples of where he found that it was happening. I don't think that's particularly serious, and I think we really need to take care of it, because it's actually a mirror of a country, when you're pacing and trying to help make production bigger, that entrepreneurship takes a swing, and at the same time you don't control how you use money. I'm very sorry that this story about protecting the environment, which you obviously understand, but somehow you're not reading our amendments well, we're not done. You haven't told us what was controversial in the previous amendment, so just to enter those three words: "and protect the environment", especially as one person is concerned. Let's now go to this next amendment, which is the amendment to Article 6. The DSS shall delete the newly added competence of the Management Board of the Development Fund as set out in point 14a. So we are erasing this point 14a, which is that the Management Board has the following competence: to decide on borrowing in the country and abroad. Our reasons for this erasure are next. First, Serbia is an overindebted country and it is not according to the DSS but according to all parameters, 60% of GDP is in charge, i.e. in money it is 16.5 billion euros. For four years, Serbia's debt has been doubled, which is enormous, the first speed and amount of borrowing is enormous. The data suggests that each Serbian resident is in charge of 2,500 euros each. Serbia, which is a poor country, poor residents, owes its citizens to pay another 2,500 euros. As things stand, Serbia will not be able to service its debts and you know it best, Mr. Minister, when you tell us that we have to take some new loans, but will have to reprogram its commitments. If we don't owe more money than today, we won't be able to pay our debts back until 2042. We've all been in charge of generations. In addition, from what we have been able to read here in an explanation for this law, the previous board of directors, who also made ministers, has entrusted the Fund with 3.8 billion dinars, which is the same information that we have to bear in mind when we talk about giving another authority that they are in charge of the country and abroad. In addition, to be even more precise, at least 2/3 of the previous Fund members will now be on the Management Board of the Fund. The Fund's board members are ministers, and guarantees for this borrowing should be given by the Republic of Serbia. I don't think the Republic of Serbia can give guarantees of that kind unless the Serbian Parliament has an insight into what's going on and gives its opinion on whether Serbia wants to give guarantees or not. We don't really need to leave this point 14a. In no case should he leave anyone in charge of the generations of Serbian citizens without control and without public insight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7197	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7198	This otherwise existed in the basic version of the law at the time of the government that Mr. Kostunica was, you should know right away. What's this about? The bottom line is that the Fund can receive additional funds, either by recapitalisation by the government, whether it takes the board to decide to provide additional funds from abroad, which are then placed through the Fund. Theoretically, whatever development fund from the world, whatever commercial bank, but more realistic some development fund, can approve the Development Fund on this credit line, and then the Development Fund reclassifies it and thus increases the volume of credit. I don't see anything controversial about it. This exists as a possibility for all development funds in any country, which means that this type of borrowing, which is the borrowing of only the Development Fund to repatriate these funds to Serbian businessmen, is decided by the Fund's Management Board. One more thing, the important change here is that ministers will not be on the Board of Directors of the Fund as a rule. They can be, and they don't have to be. I already told you I won't be myself. Finally, to go back, the basic problem that we had in the laws so far, why this law is constantly changing is that the ministries were defined by the names of which the current government formed it. Since we do not know whether there will be a Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection in the future or whether it will be in some two resolutions in the next period, then we have defined here – the minister responsible for energy affairs. If the amendment had been -- and the minister in charge of environmental protection, then we could have from the same ministry of the current two representatives, one for energy and one for the environment. Such an amendment would have been accepted if you'd given it to me. So, we didn't want to say -- energy and environmental affairs. We could've donated this with corrections if we'd been in touch before. The basic idea doesn't slow down.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7199	National MP Radojko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7200	Article 27. Mr Dinkic was an MP with us for a year, but he doesn't have to know the finesse of our Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure allow you to accept this amendment, and we, as a technical correction, will convert "and" into a decimal point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7201	I don't have a dilemma about whether or not he can, but I have a dilemma about how to respond to the MP's injury to the Rules of Procedure, because he's not hurt. With the co-operation of the secretary and professional service of the Assembly, an amendment can be made and an amendment can be corrected and a proposal representative, if we all know how this correction will be, will accept the amendment. There have been several cases, when it was clear that it was not a dispute over the order of words or about the essence, but that it wanted to improve the bill, so it is possible on the basis of Article 97. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7202	In that case, I would accept the amendment, on behalf of the government, an amendment to Article 15 with a technical correction, to separate itself from being -- the minister responsible for energy affairs, the minister responsible for environmental protection tasks.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7203	Thank you. I ask the professional service to inform, on the basis of the stenograms and in collaboration with the MPs who have submitted the amendment, that, until the debate is concluded in the particulars of the laws which were the subject of the joint principle debate, the National Assembly has been informed that an amendment with the correction has been submitted, and that, later, during the vote, the National Assembly has been informed that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment with the correction. National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7204	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Environmental protection is the third pillar of Serbia's sustainable development, which we are declaring, especially when we are talking about it now. Anyway, thank you. That makes sense. We are indeed the correct amendment, knowing that this is my fourth term, every time the government changes, the laws change, in accordance with what's currently going on. That's how this situation changed. We think we need the environment to be in this, and thank you for that. When you mentioned some other times when the Fund worked a little differently, you forgot only one addition to it, when that same point stood at the time of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Yes, it is. Only then, Serbia's borrowing was much less. Then the public debt was 29% of GDP, not 60 and then the nominal value was 8.9 billion and not 16.5. So you can't use this supplement at this time, so when you say that in other countries the same situation is, I'm not sure that other countries are in the same situation as Serbia, especially when I look at the way to the EU, none of them are looking for what Serbia is looking for. So, we take care of what is our interest and our circumstances in which we make laws, and then we won't get into a situation where something is acceptable to us once, and then we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7205	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Olga Batic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Olga Batic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7206	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 22. The Development Fund Act provides that the government submits an annual report on the work of the Fund to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The same member is scheduled for the ministry responsible for finance affairs, every six months, the government reports on the Fund's work. We have proposed that our amendment that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after the government examines the Fund's report after six months, submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, as I say, it is unacceptable that this argument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not been accepted by our amendment, which says that the amendment is not accepted, since the six-month report represents the current state of business of the Fund, which can be substantially amended in the second part of the year, and for this reason it is unnecessary to burden the National Assembly to consider the six-month report. We think it is necessary for the National Assembly to review the Fund's work report twice a year. This would achieve a greater public in the work of the Fund, thus giving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia greater control over the funds available to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister, we believe you can accept our amendment. This will not burden the National Assembly and the MPs here, if, instead of once a year, we are reviewing the Fund's work report twice a year. You yourself said in your presentation just now, that during the previous period there were abuses which were official positions, which were loans given by the Development Fund. We feel that greater control in the work and greater control of the National Assembly would come to such abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7207	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the examination of the proposal in particular on all amendments and concludes the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Based on article 85, I'm now setting a break to finish our morning work, 60 minutes. The paper continues at 15.00 hours, by searching the details of the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Allow me to inform you that on the basis of Article 27, and pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, working even after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt proposals for acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization You have received an amendment that was submitted jointly by the MPs Bojana Bozanić and Milan Lapčević on the draft law. You have received the Government's opinion on the table of amendments and reports of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7209	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposed law is set on 30 June 2014 as the last deadline until which cash claims cannot be made by creditors to restructure companies. The DSS's only amendment to this single member is to extend that deadline until 30 June 2015. Why do we propose that? Because we believe that the deadline of two years is a short deadline for these companies to restructure quality preparation for privatisation in a public tender or auction. I can tell what's gotten bigger with these companies. The number of enterprises in restructuring has increased, budget expenditures carried over from year to year to year have increased, the loss of these enterprises has increased, the number of employees in restructuring firms has increased. The value of these companies' assets has been reduced, and thus they have decreased, not to list what has been reduced, the chances of these companies being quickly brought to the level that they can make quality and for a certain amount of money, if we don't think to donate them, privatise them in any way. In the previous period, I would say that the state did nothing that these enterprises in the restructuring system were preparing for privatisation. I guess the easiest thing was, of all these major problems, to increase these companies' budget expenditures, to transfer them to a jury account, and they were mostly, these large funds that were allocated from the budget, spent on salaries. Very little has been spent, if I may say so, on improving the material base on property, and thus improving the chances of being sold in quality tomorrow. To prepare for privatisation, it's a little two or two-and-a-half years. There is a need for a number of complex operations that the state must take in terms of the value of the assets of these companies and of the internal organisation of these enterprises and of the number of employees that and how social programmes should be addressed. We think it's a short time for all of this to be done in order to have a quality privatisation of these companies. Since it is large systems, one of these large ones is, for example, a public enterprise for underground exploitation of Resavica mines that covers all mines in underground exploitation, which has large funds for subsidies, but which mainly covers personal incomes. You can't from one company like that, not to list others, to expect to do positive business, to have a positive business, to invest in capital, own capital, because first of all we need to see what the price of coal they sell is, and that's the basic input for our electricity. If you have some prices that are below market levels, you can't expect a positive business from these companies, so you can't expect them to solve their own problem and make sure they sell themselves in the privatisation process the next day. Since the state is waiting for a big job, we have proposed this amendment to give these companies and the state itself for another year, i.e. to restoring ministries, to prepare these enterprises thoroughly and systematically in restructuring and then to sell them for someone for us, as a society and as citizens, an acceptable price. In the time behind us, which is a time of great crisis, these companies are the greatest burden and have endured. We can't right now, I understand the need for a new ministry and a new government to introduce some order and that ultimately these companies that are literally burdensome and ballast to our budget, we can't just force them to some administrative deadlines that they have to prepare themselves within that time limit. We need a lot of help in terms of state aid. This deadline is small. We therefore suggested that it be extended until 30 June 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7210	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7211	Of course it would be easier for us in the government if we had a longer deadline to take off the restructuring mark from losers in interstate businesses. However, we believe that any prolonging of this status is harmful to Serbian citizens for the reason that the annual loss of these companies is 743m euros. The loss involves direct subsidies granted to enterprises in that non-payment status for pension insurance, and later the state gives it through borrowing. When you look at costs and benefits, costs far exceed benefits. What is important, this deadline of a year and a half does not mean that all these enterprises, which are now in restructuring, will necessarily have to be privatised. No, but they must become self-sustainable on the market, whether they are state or strategic partners. You set an example and I'll use it. Resavica, there is no need to privatise, but there must be a final restructuring. This means making a system that if they stay on subsidies, which amount to between three and four billion dinars, these subsidies allow them to carry out their current business normally and to regulate past debts with creditors in a way that is lasting. I'll give you another example. The Bohr mining-topic baser, we decided in the previous session not to privatize it. And today I have this feeling that we shouldn't privatise the mines in Bora. However, they are also in restructuring because they have inherited debts from the past. Some date back 20 years. Some are from Tito's Yugoslavia, some are from the past 20 years. What we're going to do by the middle of next year, we're going to negotiate with the creditors to write off part of the debt, and then the company comes out of restructuring and that, as it is now doing on its own, it can regulate current obligations. RTB Bor pays everything, and taxes, and contributions, and electricity which he didn't do until a year ago, but he still has the status of restructuring due to these 20-year-old debts. We need to regulate these debts, get this company out of the restructuring process and be independent on the market. It'll help them, because they'll be able to take bank loans more easily. The banks won't lend loans to restructure companies now, because they know they can't charge. Our plan is not to wait 30 June 2014 to suddenly do for all 150 companies to restructure this process. We plan to do a good part of the work in the next 2013 and make these most difficult cases, if we exclude Resavica and Bor, since we will do only reprogramme previous commitments and allow them to be profitable, with RTB in a better position, because there is no loss. The resave has them, and we need to see if it can be reduced, eliminated. With some other companies, we'll try to find strategic partners. For some of them, I can even say, I would be happy to give them to someone who can manage them, and to make them a market perspective, because for example, it's about companies that have so many debts that it's impossible to privatise them with capital, but only through the sale of fixed capital assets, taking over employees. Anyway, we think we need to be ambitious and start this process, because the restructuring process has been going on for almost 12 years. We've come all the way here. We need to see this process, some of these companies will stay to work as state-owned, but they will have to be self-sustainable on the market, others will be privatised through finding strategic partners, and some others, who absolutely do not care and who have no perspective, will go bankrupt. We simply need to know at some point that everyone in Serbia has to pay contributions to health care, to pensions, that there is no situation that the state has to constantly link the work experience, that it pays for something that employers haven't done. If the state is not an example of the orderly payment of contributions to employees in the state sector, then what do you expect and how do you ask the private sector to behave differently? So this also falls under a set of measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia to improve the system's discipline. We'll see, there are some companies that their owners, founders say are doing great business, like the PKK, and they're in restructuring. I guess if they're doing a great job, taking down their restructuring won't hurt them. I don't know how many different companies like that can certainly do market business without this protection. We can't discriminate against trustees and protect debtors forever. We don't think this year and a half is a long time, it's suitable for what we want to do, and we're going to go full steam to work when this law is passed, from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7212	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Gajic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7213	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I still think that deadline is very short, especially since you said that we can't and we don't need all these entities in restructuring to put them in the same basket. Yes, some will surely be able to become marketable over time, which means that they will be able to maintain themselves on the market, some will need a country’s financial injection for a long time, some are large, some are small, many are easier to prepare for sale, and what you say, even if we give them to someone, if they are willing to invest in them and return them to the market and keep a certain number of employees. That's why we said that the deadline is short, that it should be extended, and for those two and a half years, we would either make or give a time when one group of these enterprises in restructuring will be prepared for sale, when we would prepare for others to do their own market business and when we would give the third maltenes. It's simple, to make dynamics and separate these companies, because they're not all in the same basket today, and they won't be safe in a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7214	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF A STRANGE REFERENCE LAW. You have received amendments submitted by the government and the MPs: Olgica Batic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Nenad Popovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7215	The Democratic Party of Serbia submitted an amendment to Article 2. I will read it: "In Article 2 after the word "long" is added: "from the day of maturity to pay that debt", and then it continues: "to the day of payment". We simply thought that this Article 2 should be a little bit more specific than which day the tight interest is going on, no matter how much we saw in the government's explanation that the argument is actually based on Article 6(5), where it is said that it is also determined which time it starts to run. We don't think that this Article 2 should also stand for this precise definition, so we don't think there was any problem at all that it says here: "from day to day of payment".
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7216	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7217	In Article 3, we proposed that Article 3 be amended and that it reads: "The rate of tightened interest from Article 2 of this Act to the amount of debt that is on the dinars is determined at an annual level at the level of the NBS reference interest rate, increased by 6 percentage points". The proposal says "increased by 8 percentage points". Simply, we say that so far the calculation of the tight interest on these dinar liabilities has been linked to the rise in prices to a small one, which has been increased by a fixed portion of 6%. The promoter here called for, among other things, that debtors should also be punished here, that they should be destimulated, that they are late in paying their obligations and that, among other things, we have managed some practices in European countries. However, if we look at what these interest rates are in European countries and if we apply this European practice, for God's sakes, I would say that we have interest rates of about two to three percent higher, I mean the tight interest rate, relative to the environment. That is why we felt that, regardless of what the debtors need to destimulate, there should still be some more appropriate tightening interest rate, not even higher than the bank interest rates. That's why we suggested that instead of the fixed portion of 8% stand the fixed portion of 6%.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7218	Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7219	To Article 8...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7220	To Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7221	No, but we had an amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7222	I asked a question, but you didn't answer the word. I've read and left enough time, at 15, 20 seconds for everyone to answer the word, but you haven't applied for the amendment under regular number 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7223	Under regular number 10. In Article 10. The DSS suggests that after the words "Serbia" the words are added, "and will be applied retroactively since 27 July 2012. Namely, this Law on tight interest was passed as an extorted law following the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision that the method of calculating interest by comfort method was unconstitutional. The Serbian Constitutional Court's decision came on July 27th this year. This law now, as we discuss it, will probably be adopted by the end of the year and will come out in the Official Messenger and then will be applied to it. In this amendment, we wanted to explain, among other things, to ask the minister, because in this explanation given to me by this amendment, which our amendment was rejected, I am not satisfied that the interest, by which method, will be calculated from the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Court Decision, means from July 27th to the day of the entry into force of this law. What method will be used to calculate that interest?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7224	The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7225	From the moment of the Constitutional Court's decision to the date of entry into force of this law, this current Law will apply, but according to a proportionate method of accounting, to a non-conforous method. So, the current law, this pre-change will apply for this during the period, with the fact that from the day of the Constitutional Court's decision to the day of entry into force of this law, the tightening interest will be calculated in proportion to the formula, not the comfort. That's the interpretation I got from the Ministry's service.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7226	The replica of Mrs. Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7227	If I understand you correctly, then, from the date of entry into force of this law, that is, from the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Court's decision from July 27th to the date of entry into force of this law, it will be calculated on a proportionate basis but will be based on the current Law on tight interest? Where's that going to say? How will he who calculates this tightened interest, in which will he base his reckoning, in which legal provision?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7228	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7229	The Constitutional Court's decision challenged the method of reckoning, not the rate itself. So it's going to apply. It wasn't the Constitutional Court that challenged the law itself, it was the method of reckoning. Therefore, from the date of adoption of the Constitutional Court Decision, a proportionate method will be observed, and from the date of entry into force of the new law, these rates provided for by the new law will be applied, and this will be given and explained to the Ministry, as well as in similar cases where there may be some ambiguity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7230	I can give you my word, but use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7231	I fully understand you Ministers, and I would accept your explanation, but I don't see why you didn't explain it, as you just said nicely in this article, to be clear and precise. So, from the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Court Decision until the date of entry into force of this law, a proportionate method of reckoning will be applied under the Law on tight interest, the "Official Journal" that and that... And there's no confusion about tomorrow's possible problems, and there may be a court case, if it's not clear in any way. You said that now, but it could clearly stand in one member of the law. Or simply define and specify in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7232	The word of Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7233	What can I tell you? How many lawyers so many different styles. These lawyers of ours say this is clear enough, some others will say it isn't. With lawyers to deal with, it's not easy. Anyway, this is the interpretation I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7234	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending THE OBJECTION LAW, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, in voting day, decide on a bill in general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on AUTHORITY and Related Rights pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Professor Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, I have called for the session to attend and Ivica Kotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Zoran Tubić, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, Nevenka Novaković, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and Zorica Gulasnavod. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Olgica Batić, Mirko Cikiriz, Aleksandar Jugovic, Milica Radović, Donka Banović, Predrag Marković, Srdjan Miković, Vesna Jovicki, Dejan Radenković, Momo Čolaković, Gorica Mojović, Vesna Marjanović, Petar Petković and the Government, as well as amendments of the Committee on Education, Untaught, Technological Development and Information Society. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Predrag Markovic, written on 4 December 2012, withdrew the amendment to Article 11. National MPs Olgica Batić and Mirko Cikiriz, 5 and 6 December 2012, wrote in writing, withdrew the amendment with a correction to Article 6. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is based on Article 163(2). He rejected the Rules of Procedure as incomplete amendments submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic proposing the addition of a new member of the 4a and the amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 6a. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. You're reporting from the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, I think you should have met Mr. Dinkic immediately at the beginning of work that he cannot be authorized today for this point for one simple reason that is in conflict of interest. In addition to being Mr. Dinkic Minister, he is also a composer and we have information to compose music for Mr. Boban Rajevic – Piromana.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7236	Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7237	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. If you listened to me correctly, at first I said it was a mistake on you because you did not warn Mr Dinkic that he could not be authorized by the government's proposal for this point, because he is obviously in conflict of interest. This point was earlier, i.e. this bill was defended, as I understand it, by Mr. Zarko Obradovic. I'm sorry, I would have sent this kind of sermon and if we'd been to the session when we were in principle discussing this point. But I ask you to keep in mind that the Assembly simply does not violate not only the Rules of Procedure, but established democratic rights and principles. So, as I said, Mr. Dinkic is also a composer and composing songs for Mr. Bojan Rajević Piromana, for Dragan Kotic Kebu, for Genan Loncarevic, for Kiki Lesandric, for George David. I think in that capacity he is fully interested in the outcome of a debate like this, and I ask you today to appoint the author of another government official.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7238	You, of course, have the right to seek the violation of that member of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think a member of the Rules of Procedure is hurt. Under the law and under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the government determines at the cabinet's session and informs the National Assembly, a member of the government who will be authorised to represent the government at a certain point in the agenda, which Mr Dinkic neatly delivered. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, but if you insist on making that statement during the voting day. The word is Mrs Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7239	A member of the 107th violation of Parliament's dignity, because I think a colleague has abused the Rules of Procedure, because this has nothing to do with it. The minister can be active in other areas of life, as MPs can be. Does this mean that the Minister of Health can't defend the laws in the field of health because he's a doctor or a college professor? How can this be a conflict of interest? People who are ministers, and who have had some of their careers, whether they are professional, professional, or in some other area of life, and that in no way discredits them to make, laws that regulate that area in which they perform some kind of action. I think this is a completely missed topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7240	I'll take this as your attempt to show that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure and I thank you for that. As far as this is concerned, I don't want to get into a broad debate, because then I would open the question of whether the MPs who own the company can vote on the laws that treat the company's business and then we'd be in trouble to decide whether someone who is in such a way, to say in that kind of obligation, is in breach of conflict of interest or not. However, since the law in this case does not prohibit, and our Rules of Procedure allow, I think in this sense we can continue to work. Are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7241	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica of the lady's exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7242	I'm sorry, but then you have to tell me, you've nodded your head, I don't allow a replica, because you're not mentioned, nor your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7243	I don't know why you...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7244	I'm sorry, I didn't give you my word. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7245	Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure. Just one logical question at the beginning to clarify, which is why Mrs Plassic came forward, if she did not hurt me, or if she did not directly call on what I was saying. I fully appreciate Mrs. Plassic's loyalty, but I can't appreciate that this assembly is entering a cycle like this, not just violations of the Rules of Procedure, but violations of principles, democracy, which I guess we all stand for here. What you said, it is quite logical that Mr Dinkic defends the laws of the economy, we have now had a debate on the Fund for Development, on tight interest, on insurance, on the draft Budget Law, and it is all quite legitimate and we support it. We can't allow it, because he's personally interested, ma'am, he's receiving certain fees from the collectively executed copyright and related rights organization so-called. Serbian musicians' organisations and you cannot tell me that man is not personally interested in the outcome of this law in parliament. I ask you to raise this debate to a higher level at its very beginning and to replace the government's authorised representative in this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7246	I still don't think he's a injured member of the Rules of Procedure that you've advertised. To answer your question, Mrs Stojanović Plassic called for Article 107 in terms of defending the dignity of the National Assembly, because she felt that the debate on this topic violated the dignity of the National Assembly. I just want to tell you, about every law, including this, the National Assembly, we decide whether the law will be passed or not. Therefore, a member of the government appointed by the government has the right to be present, to give an explanation, but a decision on whether the law will be passed, whether some amendment to the law will be passed, the government cannot influence. That is what the MPs of the people influence with their vote in the day of the vote. I don't think there's really any need to get into this debate, and I don't think there's any conflict of interest, because that's what the National Assembly decides. The question would be asked, if one of the MPs is a composer and participates in the debate and the vote, whether it is a conflict of interest, but in this case, the minister who does not vote on this law is just someone who, on behalf of the Government, explains what the government wanted with this law, and it is up to us to accept or not accept the law. Mr. Markovic, as in "Richard's injury"? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7247	According to the Rules of Procedure, and may as well be authorized for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7248	You can't do that right now, because we haven't started yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7249	So, with great pleasure, I would like to welcome this part of the discussion because it removes any kind of doubt under Article 103. Whether it offends the dignity of the Assembly or opens up a potential conflict of interest. On the other hand, I'm just asking, there's no reason for us to represent the newly combined attitudes that someone writes for a singer. No, people write songs, compositions, who will perform them, you have no reason to advertise anyone and to abuse the Assembly. That's the first one. Second, of course, this kind of intervention helps each of us. In case a minister present by all ministers designated for these points to represent the government, not the ministry, should he adopt an amendment at the session itself, such a kind of suspicion could be spoken of. This is how he guarantees and explains with his presence what the Government has proposed as its position on the amendments, and in principle, the competent minister for this area was present, it is Mr. Zarko Obradovic, so there is no basis for anyone to discuss this, but it is nice to discuss it, so we have removed any suspicion and now we know that we are working on the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7250	You will, however, breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are right, you are mentioned. Mrs Plassic has been directly mentioned, and Mrs Radovic has not been mentioned. There's a subtle but yet a difference. This is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which the MP mentioned in the debate has the right to reply or considers his presentation to be incorrectly interpreted. A national MP who has not been mentioned has no right to do so, and a parliamentary group may be represented by a president or a deputy president of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7251	I hope you'll give me this time back, of course I have the right to a replica, not only to be directly mentioned, but also to be discredited in some way by saying that what I'm saying is out of loyalty. I could also advertise the Rules of Procedure then and say that it is a violation of the dignity of the Assembly, because I deeply believe that we are all here defending our views, and we are not extended hands of ministers or whoever it is, some members of the government. In any case, I am doing this on this occasion and I want to defend my right and the right of any of us, any minister, to be a professor at the university, to work in some area, and to make laws in that same area, votes on these laws, changes those laws or in any way contributes to that area. On the contrary, if you know the area you are talking about so much more effectively, you will improve that area to the benefit of all who are interested in the area. I don't think there's room for any doubt here. The Law of Conflict of Interest clearly defines what can and cannot be done. A member of the government present here on behalf of the Government has the right, if I may correct, to adopt amendments and to represent the Government in full capacity as she has authorized him and there are no problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7252	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7253	I am advocating Article 272 of Article 1 and Section 2 says - the government's right and duty to represent it in the National Assembly when considering all issues from its jurisdiction has the Prime Minister. The government determines the members of the Government who represent it on certain issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. That's what the government does, we don't do. In my opinion, every debate is groundless, because we don't have that position to decide who the government is going to send here. The government has decided to represent Mr Dinkic here and I see that the government has violated its Rules of Procedure, not the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He is explicit and determines that the government determines the government's representative who will represent her at this session. As far as conflict of interest is concerned, we here have MPs of various occupations. Voted only on various laws, on various loans, on the directors of public enterprises on certain guarantees, and there were far more conflicts of interest here than here. This is about two levels of government, the Assembly legislative section, and the government executive section. The assembly makes laws, and the government here represents them and defends its proposals. The government has determined it to be Mr Dinkic and in accordance with Article 272 I see nothing controversial, nor can we discuss it. The government can discuss this at its session if the Rules of Procedure regulates these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7254	Thank you. In any case, I appreciate and thus interpret it, the good intentions of all the MPs, to remove any suspicion that this debate is going in the right direction. I thank all the MPs for the debate. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government did not accept the amendment, and on the correction of the amendment, it did not come forward. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikirz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7255	We have tried this amendment to limit the time limit for the return of the special fee, to which special compensation is paid and which is later re-exported from the country, for a period of one year. For what? The way we understood it was that, say anyone, if they import computers, computer equipment, computer memory, etc., it's certain that if they intend to use that equipment and pay a special fee, which is perfectly fine, they'll do it within a year. If not, surely that equipment, if the goal is to further re-export, then it will certainly be re-exported quickly after certain conditions. That is why our amendment also went the way of thinking in that direction, especially since the equipment used must be more difficult to re-export. We understand the government's position to limit this deadline, but that, I say, was the way we thought. Whether or not it is entirely, as far as the legal-technical editorials are concerned, this amendment is in place, I just wanted to highlight the way our parliamentary group thinks, and I believe that in the practical part it was used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7256	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment to the view that no one can commit contractors, i.e. organisation, interpreters and the organisation of phonogram manufacturers, to inform the Resord Ministry, more specifically the Ministry of Science and the Institute of Intellectual Property, about when they started talking among themselves? Namely, only negotiation, association and so on, they should be completely independent, they should be completely free, and no one, of course, should force them to do so, but as this amendment says, nor add any additional obligations to them. I fully understand the legislator's intention, which says that from this moment on, it means that from the moment they inform the Ministry of Science it is beginning to run three months, in which negotiations must end, but I am really here expressing great doubt and simply, my kind of disagreement with this, because I believe that the state is given a key role in regulating relations between legal entities and, more specifically, in this case, between organisations, and these relations exclusively and only, in my opinion, should, in both formal and content terms, be regulated by the organisations themselves. Of course, this is just one of the remarks that has been made, not only by the MPs, but by the expert public at all on this bill. It has, as we know, caused very serious reactions, both rightholders themselves, or collectively exercising copyright and related rights, but at the same time also with the representative association of users. For this reason, in order to understand comprehensively, all aspects and areas governed by the law, I must say that today in Serbia there are organisations for collectively achieving the copyrights and related rights of musicians, interpreters, or composers, musicians and phonogram manufacturers, and that all other authors, including, of course, translators and writers, painters, voyeurs, designers, architects, and whoever you want, do not have their own collectively achieving copyright and related rights. As a result, they are unable to negotiate the level of compensation through their organisations. Of course, a very strong vote against this law was also directed by the SOKOJ and, of course, by the Organisation of phonograms and Interpretators, believing that this law is not in accordance with the Constitution, believing that this law does not comply with the European Commission directives and international conventions. At the same time, a very strong vote against the law was also directed by the Association of Users, for example, one of them ANEMUS, in any case by the Association of Independent Electronic Media, who felt that this law should not have entered the assembly procedure before the discussion was conducted, and that he, in the form in which it exists today, ignored the problems of the media. Of course, I find it very bad that the consultations of the bar, between the stakeholders to which this law applies, have not been carried out, because I believe the mass of disagreement that exists in this bill would be removed in time. In our opinion, the law is really problematic. He's troublesome because some of his provisions are at odds with the Constitution. On the other hand, in the way it is envisaged here, it certainly does not ensure that the compensation, in accordance with the way and the type of use of copyright, or copyright, is justly determined and I think it is very bad that the state plays a key role in regulating the relationship between legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7258	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7259	Just one little correction. Please open your emails. I thank all the MPs who received it three weeks ago, so, a letter of warning from media organisations, but also three days ago they received gratitude for everything this very assembly has, so the MPs have launched. In contrast, the government and the committees have given adequate amendments. Not only did the representatives of these media organisations thank each other, but they also left their gratitude and agreement with the solutions and satisfaction that the current solutions are the ones that we hope will be adopted by the end of this week. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7260	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7261	Thank you. This is, in practice, the second position, which changes one great member of 127, which talks about the rights of the manufacturer of the issued phonogram to compensation, and that is, let me say, in the previous law, so precisely elaborated and defined. My amendment refers to the second position of the proposed member, and this, the legislator says that if an organisation of a phonogram producer and an interpreter organisation does not conclude the contract under Article 3, within three months of the start of the negotiations, a single payment will be made by the oldest organisation. My intervention consisted of me proposing that this three-month deadline be extended to six months to reach an agreement, a team before it was in the previous law, so there are amendments, in the previous law it was said to be six months. So I think I need to extend that deadline, and I don't think this argument has convinced me anything special, why you've shortened that deadline for reaching an agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7262	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7263	Another technical notice, in talks that existed among organisations, there is a great danger and doubt that maybe six months will happen because no one does the job, and then there would be a large number of damages. It was a suggestion, and I totally understand why the proposer eventually went to that conditionally reasonable deadline, to leave enough time for a deal, and on the other hand, so that it doesn't happen that half a year no one collects these copyright fees. I suppose that's the intensity most MPs will be behind. I'm sorry to answer, but I just happen to know the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7264	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7265	Thank you for those notices. You told us MPs that we should open an e-mail. I was opening an e-mail today, and I didn't get any notice. You are a member of the Committee on Culture of the National Assembly, and I am a member of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, intellectual property and we had, perhaps ten days ago, at the Committee's session this very bill and there were representatives of many organisations, where they said they were very dissatisfied about why a quality public debate was not held and why, among other things, they did not participate in this law, which they continue to call, regardless of what they were only amending and supplemented, it is one system law. If it's something system law, then it's not just about solving a current situation or an ad hoc situation. They expressed great dissatisfaction there. I didn't get any e-mails or notice that they're now satisfied with our activities. I saw you had a few amendments the government accepted. I really have no reason not to believe your word, but the other MPs, even those where this proposal has been discussed, have not received any notice that they are now very pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7266	Thank you. Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7267	Mrs. Banovic, it's not about any controversy, as you know. My request - open your email, not personally, but those of the messengers who had received it. It was just my notice, because I received three days ago, so, after all this stuff that you yourself said happened, and it was my duty to inform those who didn't open the e-mail, that's all, as in this second intervention was my personal notice. I think we're all gonna benefit, because we're trying to make laws that are certainly not systemic, I guess that's a lapus, these are changes and additions, and we've been discussing what everything needs to be done in the next period for other copyrights. You have discussed this personally and a whole series of MPs, but since this is extremely important for a whole series of organisations and authors in this segment, in this sense it is in some way a final solution to the detailed changes and alignment of this law. I thought it was correct to share this information, because this is one of the laws where we have shown that MPs can influence both committees and the government with their observations in order to obtain the most qualitative and precise solutions as possible at this point. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7268	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7269	I really don't want to turn this into some kind of debate. If something is a system law, such as the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and then the Proposer intervenes with amendments and additions, it is still a system law because it is the only law that regulates this matter, so that all those who have made remarks that no valid debate has been held, and then we MPs have been exposed to this confusion of a large number of correspondence and disdain both the organization and individuals and we have been very complicated and difficult to prepare ourselves at all for today's discussion. This is still a system law, and the team was supposed to have a public hearing before.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7270	The word has Mrs Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7271	I'm reporting to support Mrs. Donke Banovic's amendment. I think what is in the explanation that accepting the amendment would endanger the application of the whole law, or make it uncertain, is not true. I would also like to say that as a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, not only do I open e-mails, but I also read them, and that it is not true that Anem later sent an e-mail praising the amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. AEM was explicitly against and placed major objections to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The commendations we received as MPs, the Committee on Culture and Information, as the Assembly, the Administrative Committee, refers to the Law on Public Enterprises. Therefore, Mr. Pedja Markovic did not tell the truth. AEM continued to have serious objections, as well as other organisations and associations on the proposal to amend and supplement the Copyright Act. The assembly was praised for respecting the European Commission's remarks on information organisations, which were treated in one way by the Law on Public Enterprises, which Minister Dinkic also informed us that the amendment would be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7272	Thank you. National MP Predrag Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7273	This is as precise and clear as it is that my name is Peja.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7274	Thank you. National MP Predrag Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7275	I think all of you have been made available to you by the European Commission on the draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. I would not like to repeat what has been delivered in written materials and what has been made available to the members of the Committee on European Integration. The European Commission's concerns regarding Article 3 are serious. The European Commission's view is that this member is not fully clear, since it uses a charging term, which means determining the fee. It shall be referred to Article 8. The Rights, Rental and Borrowing Directives shall be granted to Member States the right to determine the conditions for compensation between the contractor and the manufacturer, but only in the absence of an agreement between the users. I didn't want to explain the amendment in detail, but in any case, if there are serious objections from the European Commission, then at the very least we need to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7276	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7277	Let me explain to you what this is about. As you yourself have said, there are three copyright protection organisations in this area – SOKOJ, The Rights of Interpreters and OFFS, i.e. the Organisation of phonograms. What today is the situation on the ground, each organisation delivers a payment card to the bonds of this fee and now entrepreneurs or bonds of this fee have three payments to fill in to pay each organisation individually. Our new government is seeking to streamline business in all areas of red tape, and this is one pure bureaucracy, to make a united payment, that instead of three payments there is one, and then that these revenues are divided in proportion to what kind of organization they belong to, but that our entrepreneurs do not have to pay so many bills, but that the combined payment is done. We also had talks with the European Commission delegation. We explained that we do not want to introduce any monopolies in charge, but that the organisations themselves will agree on how to do so. That money will go to each of them individually in an appropriate proportion, but that it is rational because of the taxpayers, because of those who pay for it, that they have only one payment card. We have an amendment to the board that I assume will be here on the agenda, on this Article 3, where we have made it a little bit clearer in language. It is on the list as it was in the original text, where we essentially say that the public declaration fee for music works as an independent fee for the authors of music works and a united single fee for interpreters and phonograms for public disclosure of interpretations and phonograms, for reasons of public interest, are collected through a single payment mechanism delivered to users in a manner determined by the agreement reached by the organisation. In other words, we avoid bureaucracy. In that sense, we think it's a good thing, and that's why we turned down this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7278	Replica, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7279	The fact is, in what the government wrote, it was said among other things that I was resented for not particularly pointing out what the discrepancies were supposed to be. Again, I am pleased that the ministry and the government obviously know what the discrepancies are about. So at least there's a clear amendment in that part. I'm only going to make one point, and that's about the author of the right to public broadcasting and the exclusive right of the author can't be subject to the rigority of a single fair fee. The payment to the authors is separate, independent payment and would not be compatible with European legislation and "Aki" means interpreting those quoted provisions of the Directive on renting rights, borrowing, imposing any kind of law on the required division of the amounts between the artists and producers' authors. In this regard, Article 3 is, according to the European Commission, incompatible with "Aki". Only in that part did I point out that tomorrow we don't happen to get the law back on track.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7280	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7281	At the meetings we had with the members of the European Commission, we told them – is it your goal to impose as much red tape on Serbia as possible, or is it the goal of moving towards streamlining reforms? Everyone here gets as much as they own under the law. Only technically, a single payment is made with one payment. There's no other secret to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7282	You can use the time of the authorized group. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7283	It's nice what we said. I'm interested in what the European Commission said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7284	Thank you. The People's MP, Vesna Jovicki, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 3 was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7285	We're in the middle of something right now. Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee established this amendment and proposed it in response to the European Commission’s observations and suggestions, with the aim of explicitly formulating that the combined fee for broadcasting, i.e. public announcement of music works, a concept that respects the independence of the author’s collection, and that this single payment mechanism is something that expresses public interest. We actually believe in this explication that we have removed the reasons for the European Commission's observations that have already been discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7286	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been declared. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and Olgica Batić and Mirko Chikiriz together. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7287	I also discussed this when it was the law. the draft law in principle debate. In Article 171 of the basic text, he says – if the use of the subject of protection is not necessary for the performance of the user, but only useful and pleasant, in the case of means of transport, they are placed in catering facilities, trade and crafts, malls, exhibition premises and so on, etc. What's this about? The bill proposes to delete two words: "and craftsmen". I ask the question in which tomorrow we will ensure that a large number of catering facilities do not become a crafts object and therefore come into a situation of non-payment of certain fees prescribed under the law. I don't think that part's defined enough. I point out the European Commission's comments on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, as it is said that legislation in Serbia also stipulates that trades, or production actions, are exempt from the obligation to pay public broadcasting fees for music works, to perform phonograms. This term of trade, in the European Commission's view, is not clear enough and the fact that the definition includes independent crafts actions. a commercial space in which an entrepreneur pays income tax, flat-rate income for the production or sale of manufactured products and the provision of services during production. The European Commission believes that the exclusion of certain companies must depend solely on whether the public broadcasting act is taking place within the premises or not. According to the case-law of the European Court of Justice, this should be established on the basis of case-by-case practice. As a result, the general "ex ante" means to advance and exclude a number of companies from the obligation to pay fees cannot be in line with European legislation. In that part, I suggested an amendment and pointed out that it was not in line with "Aki". Obviously, regardless of whether it was clear in the first wave or not, the amendment itself was clear, I have now provided an additional explanation as to why I find it not in agreement with Akia. In order to avoid further reporting, the fact is that even in defining all of this, what is a catering facility, what is a craft object and all of that, was the need for better distinction and security of the state, society than possible abuses of such a proposal by a member given in Article 5. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7288	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7289	The government was in a position to abolish the so-called. The music dinar for the craftsmen and we stayed in that position. We have defined the craftsmen in exactly the same way as in the fiscal registers Act. All those freed from the obligation to hold fiscal tills have been exempt from the payment of copyright fees, i.e. the music dinar. Many small entrepreneurs went bankrupt because of the various duties they had in the previous period and the example of the shoemaker had to pay this fee, although it is clear that people do not go to the shoe shop to listen to music, but to fix shoes. There are countless such examples. It takes two years for a craftsman to lift their music dinar, and finally, this law will do so. We have made it clear that this does not apply to cafes and catering facilities, because they still have a obligation to hold fiscal tills, unlike crafts, which have been abolished on the proposal of the new Government and by the decision of this Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7290	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7291	Anyway, this isn't about a grudge over shoe shops, but there are craftsmen and craftsmen. If we just run an analysis of what kind of craftsmen there are, I find the flatulence and craftsmanship at the very least inappropriate. In that sense, it is also to prevent possible abuses, as anyone can also register as a craft shop, if this is to get the benefit provided for by such a bill. The second thing is, there are also possibilities to register the current ones, e.g. among other things, catering or other facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7292	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7293	I have to say that we support the solution to free the trades from paying public announcement fees, because I don't think it's appropriate for that fee to be collected, for example, in a particular flower shop, a hair salon, or in a dentist's office, because these objects don't earn by using music and by themselves, the public announcement of music works at the same time doesn't listen to a number of people. I have to say, this is about pretty small business rooms and people who don't really make money from music. They provide their services, but primary activity is not music. Here I would also call for one European Court of Justice's position, which says – to talk about the public announcement of music works, it is necessary for this statement to be addressed to a large number of people and who at the same time listen to that music, to simplify it. We can't talk about that rule in this case, when it comes to craftsmanship and we can't apply it, because it's hard to assume in craftsmanship that at one time more than 10 people are found, and that's a lot. That is why I believe it is entirely justified that this fee is not collected by the owners of craft stores. I need to express one of my reserves with this member. I think it's very bad that this issue was the most important in the pre-election campaign, and this is the way to regulate this issue as an expression of selective law enforcement. If we look at, say, basic law and Article 171 then we can ask one very logical question – if the rule applied to craftsmanship is applied as such, why not apply it specifically in these other examples mentioned in Article 171? I'm talking about means of transport or, say, exhibition space. Why is this fee collected in these cases, and crafts are released from it? I fully support Mr. Mikovic's argument, which speaks of how the trade action is defined in this law, is not defined precisely and I think that under this definition can be subdued and those objects that really do not deserve to be released from paying this fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7294	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7295	I'll read the definition, to see that it's actually precisely formulated, unlike what you're saying. "The fee for public announcements of music works, interpretations and phonograms in trades is not paid. Under trade operations, within the meaning of this position, independent trade operations, as well as actions, i.e. a business space, in which an entrepreneur who pays taxes on his or her income on a flat-rate income which deals with production activity, and in the context of the production activity, sells his own products, or provides services to natural persons and performs that activity. "This is exactly the same, identical formulation of the fiscal registers law, where we have released all these trades from the obligation to keep fiscal tills. All those who, by law adopted by this Assembly in September, have since 1 September been freed from keeping records through fiscal registers, from the moment of entry into force of this law will no longer have to pay the music dinar. In other words, as of next year, there will be no permanent obligation. As a result of public pressure, these organisations tried to give some discounts during this year, but that was also selective. One of them wanted to give, the other one didn't. Since there's three of them, everyone's been running their own politics. After all, various court proceedings are still under way for unpaid bills from previous years, which are increasing with exponential tightening interest. This law finally frees all craftsmen who have no obligation to run traffic through fiscal registers and the obligation to pay the music dinar. It's also hairdressers, beauty salons, cobblers, carpenters, it's volcanoes. I think that's good, 70 grand. However, what is very important, the revenues for copyright from these fees, which are obtained by these entrepreneurs, mostly very small paying powers, are a very small part of the unpaid fees by the public service to copyright protection organisations. So, logic is next – the one who should pay the most, did not pay, and the ones who paid the least, even the insufferable, some forced into bankruptcy. I think it should be turned upside down, the public service should start paying its dues, because it's one of the key parts of the public service program, and let the craftsmen in peace do their jobs and get paid. It's the politics of the new government. So whoever has the economic power, which is binding, to find a way to fulfil their obligation, and these revenues only from public service will be more than what is lost now that the craftsmen no longer have to pay. Only one institution will compensate these 70,000 entrepreneurs who will be released, only have to pay regularly. For the past, if they need the mediation of the Ministry of Education or some other institution, how to regulate the obligations of the past, I suppose they will be given the logistical support to see how to regulate the unpaid obligations of the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7296	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7297	Dear President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will support this bill because I think it's better than the previous one. But in the daytime, I don't think it's necessary for the caterers to charge a fee on the music dinar. Small catering shops are very similar to crafts. If someone in the catering store listens to the news and afterwards jumps over the table to turn off the music so the inspector doesn't come in and hear the music broadcast, I don't think that's right. I think the revenues are very low, and the author's work in itself is something that the author has done to listen, sell and spread in some territory for which it is intended. If it is printed by a book or created by a CD or other form, it is sufficient that this protection should be on a CD that is protected or on a book that is forbidden to print or multiply CDs. If necessary, it could be some kind of CD professional for some catering facilities that will have a hologram or something, let's say it's 10 times more expensive than some ordinary CD. But I really don't think that it's necessary to separate trades from small catering shops, and also the European definition of protecting "from this music broadcast" is that this broadcast applies to a large number of listeners, so that it could eventually be banned from taxing when someone tries a CD to make a concert or some big party, to be in some halls, when it's meant for a large number of people who would listen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7298	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7299	In any case, it is a good remark and I have pointed out all the inconclusiveness of the bill of this proposed member. The exposed spaces remain to be paid. Anyway, that part, if we're giving an argument, let's see if it takes and how long it takes. The second point, in the second position of Article 171 of the basic text of the law, is explicitly stated that when determining the level of the flat-rate fee, care will be taken of the type, method of use of the subject matter, geographical location of the seat of the users, the type and size of the space in which the items of protection, duration and scope of use and the prices of the services of the users are used. In the proposed Article 171a, which is subject to the regulation of Article 6. The bill of law, we have that only the area used is the rapper in respect of the fee. I'm not sure that Belgrade's center relative to Zaguvica or some place under the hill, depending on the surface, should have the same treatment. Because the funds generated on the basis of the broadcast, for example, certain music, do not generate the same income in downtown Belgrade or somewhere on the Serbian periphery. In that sense, I don't think this law is enough of that difference and measured it all. True, some efforts have been made, in terms of the adoption of amendments, for those areas over 300 square meters, or over 50 square meters, depending on the category, but when we talk about Article 6. It's a bill of law. Anyway, I don't think all of this is defined enough. I don't mind small craftsmen being released, but we don't have a mechanism to protect them, and to prevent the possible abuse of this, with the best intention, of the proposed provisions. We weren't good enough legal technicians to provide a way to protect ourselves from possible abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7300	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7301	I just want to remind you that the 171 that regulates this remains in force. These are additional members – 171a, 171b etc. That's definitely where you knock on the open door. This law provides for different fees within the same city in the centre and on the periphery, as well as for different regions. Normally, the same fee cannot be charged for the same facility of the same area in Belgrade or Zagreb. There absolutely this law allows selective collection, depending on the development of the area and depending on the area within the same city, in line with the zones.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7302	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7303	I called right after Mr Dinkic's first presentation, but you didn't notice me. I am not sure that the definition given in the Law is clear enough, especially if we go from how an entrepreneur is regulated in the Company Act, where it is said to be a business capable natural person who carries out the activity in order to obtain income, which is registered as such, in accordance with the Registration Act. I fully support what Mr. Mikovic said was not precisely defined. I ask you the same thing, once again, only an explanation – if this rule is applied to crafts, why not apply, specifically, to means of transport, or exposed space? It's simple, let's see the criteria. Not to be slow, I fully support what's in the law. I think trades should be freed from payment of fees for public announcements of musical works, but I'm interested in the criteria you used. Don't make laws just because we're in pre-election campaigns, we've raised certain questions to that extent, that we have to do it today, which I say I support, but I'm looking for a criterion. So, by what criteria are only crafts actions exempt from paying this fee, and that same rule does not apply to means of transport or, for example, to exposure to space?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7304	The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7305	Here's an explanation. The exhibition space is normally a larger area and gathers more people. If music is played, then it's not an exhibition, then it's a musical performance and then a fee is paid. If the exhibition is without music, no compensation is paid. The trades are smaller, smaller people, and according to these international rules, it is only paid when more people attend public announcements. In that sense, it was a criterion. So they won't pay even gallery owners, showrooms, if they're doing exhibitions without playing music. If they play music, then they're subject to paying these fees, because they're gathering more people. That's the difference. It was under the previous law, and in this one it was left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7306	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7307	Thank you. I pray that since it's a nice discussion and I suppose we all care, that's what we saw when we talked in principle, there's no reason to improvise some answers beyond what's written in the law. This applies to all participants in the debate. Certainly, to repeat what we have said in principle, it is a pleasure to have someone's pre-election promise fulfilled. That's what I want for everyone who's seriously involved in election campaigns. It's not a flaw when someone's capable of fulfilling their pre-election promise. It's a flaw when it's not. It is a great pleasure for all of us to try to see, in the context of something that is from discussion, that we all find useful and important. For a large number of small businessmen and craftsmen, when we are able, to do as quickly as possible and to see the improvement. There are good remarks that this does not cover all those who would by the criteria listed, and Mrs Radovic has also paraphrased something we have already heard in the principle debate, which is very important, which is the decision of the European Court of Justice on a single dentist's case. Then there was a definition that you were paraphrasing and quoting, which is – how many people at the same time are mostly listening to music in that place, so that it could be considered the basis for payment? I'm sure you're right, too, in the definition of a whole series of spaces that could be applied to this principle and that would allow someone else to be freed. On the other hand, it's no reason that 99% of what we've all concluded is unfair, unfair, and that it threatens the fundamental activity of these people, we don't now solve as Parliament by law and release these people from paying such an imposed music dinar. It's no reason that another percent exists who might. In addition, the discussion pointed to a whole series of possible future changes, and this was insisted by different art associations, different Esnaf associations, MPs who spoke about both rights and translators, and filmmakers, all of this can be done in future amendments to this law, but that is no reason to wait. What we can do in the fall, let's do tonight. That's the rule. Let's get as much of what we agreed on, now apply. We have no reason to discuss what, unfortunately, has not entered the law and is not precisely defined by amendments that would allow us to adopt it right now. Of course, Mr. Mikovic is right, there are younger and older crafts, but here are these trades that are also registered under the law, so it was natural to expect the government to apply the solution that also in other areas regarding legal crafts, applied in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7308	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7309	In Article 171 of the basic text of the law, the draft law does not intend to amend anything. So it stays for means of transport, accommodation catering facilities, shopping shops, malls, exhibition spaces. It's still staying. If that's what it says in the law, they can be determined, in a flat-rate amount, a tariff. Whether something will be applied and whether the law will be respected or not, the law must be respected. True, it happened and it happens that certain laws don't apply to the government, but that's not the subject, I'm not talking about this law, but there's even that. In any case, a flat rate is charged at the moment. The second thing is, is there a simulation of how much charge goes and how much is going in extra charging zones, or what is the maximum amount? Is that compared to certain other amounts, where the smaller revenues are, where the objectively cannot be achieved revenue based on music broadcasting? So that's the difference. I don't think that part was measured properly, or those simulations themselves don't follow this bill. If it had been done, then it would have been possible for everyone, and for music authors' organisations, to explain to other organizations what it is and what it isn't. The European Commission has declared itself one percent, regardless of what is even a higher percentage in EU countries, I speak with those appliances. The fact is that our economic power is weaker and I understand there are certain adjustments. Normally, when one of these laws is proposed to do a simulation and see if we can bring in all those who protect the interests of music authors or other performers, will they ever be able to reach the author? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7310	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7311	I called right after Mr Dinkic was exposed, but you seem to have a problem with my observation. (President: No, I'm just giving the word in a row of registered speakers, because they have the same basis of right, even though they were before you in the system, then I give them the word first. I have to answer what you said about the exhibition space. I fully understand and accept the argument that if more people are gathered in the exhibition space and music is not played at that time that the exhibition space should be freed from paying the public announcement fee. I ask you, where does it say in the law? You just said that, but you didn't tell us where the law says it. The law doesn't say that. In law, only trades are released from the payment of that fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7312	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7313	It says in Articles 170 and 171 of the applicable law. So, members we haven't changed. It says that when using objects of protection is necessary and when it is only useful or pleasant. These are definitions used in Articles 170 and 171 of the original law which do not change these amendments. That's how it's regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7314	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7315	I agree with what you said. That's what it says in Article 171, but they're said to be paying a flat-rate fee. In line with what you're saying now, you think that if you don't play music in the exhibition room they should be released, if I understood you well a few minutes ago. If you were going to do it, then do it, because it doesn't say it in the law. They're still obliged to pay this fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7316	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7317	Thank you, Mr. President. I join my colleagues who claim to be limited by this law, in fact, at least it was about restricting the rights of the author, and most of all it was about amending and supplementing the law clearly not defining what it meant by independent trades. There's no need for the minister to read again, I've read it a hundred times. What this discussion has shown is that we have opened a dam for both this member and the next one on which I have an amendment. Mr. Radovic talked about why we don't release the hosts. Milica Radovic also asked why we do not release the means of transport, exhibition spaces. I ask the question – why not small emitters, small local radio stations? So, a lot of questions are being opened, because that's the principle. If you raise the ramp by one, it makes perfect sense to ask the question – why did you bring it down for everyone else? That ramp didn't have to be so raised that everything went through it. It could have been defined in one way to really determine what we are hearing here during the debate in principle and during the debate on amendments, this refers only to small crafts actions. Where does that say? Little craftsmanship, I tried through the Science and Education Committee to make an amendment, since it was too late for the MP to define these small craftsmanships up to 25 squares. These are the shops that deal with old and art crafts. No, we're liberating everything with this. Said Minister Dinkic and hairdressers, and fashion salons and bakeries. Minister, I was the director of the Cultural Centre whose gallery is also playing music smaller than some bakers and pastries. The Cultural Centre Gallery as well as the Haos Gallery and the Youth House Gallery will continue to pay music dinar, and some magnificent beauty salons will not do so. Therefore, this whole discussion shows that we have violated the Constitution. I read article 58. The Constitution, I have explained what the right to private property is and I have confirmed that copyrights are also private property and it is inalienably the right of the owner to allow or limit their use. We had in December last year an amendment to this law. Why? Because we have been warned by the European Commission that we are limiting the rights of the author. With these provisions, we have made these rights even more difficult to limit. I fully understand my colleagues who, with full right, are asking questions, and why not these, and why not them, why they are just freed, and not clearly in all the arguments and in all the defenses of this member and this next one were spoken of by small craftsmen. It's not defined in the bill of amendments. Basically, we opened one dam so it could go through. We had the opportunity to hear Mr Markovic now who also says – perhaps in the next period these exhibition spaces, buses and everyone else should be freed. Then what did we question? Right of private property and copyright, intellectual rights. We violated the Constitution and we violated international standards and we violated, except for Article 58, and Article 194. The constitution of Serbia that obliges us to respect international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7318	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7319	So the dam isn't open. It is clear that a release has been given to all craftsmen who are free from the obligation to hold fiscal tills, and they no longer have to pay the music dinar. As for catering facilities, no one is free from paying the music dinar, but the fee is significantly reduced for smaller area catering facilities. This is true and according to the square is determined maximum amount which is much lower than today. What's very important is that you asked one key question, limiting the rights of the author. Let's speak with a clear language. This law actually increases the rights of authors. For the first time, the authors will be able to know that no one is lying to them from organisations that protect their rights, because they protect some more and some less, as much as anyone is actually broadcast in Serbia. How? We're making a commitment that all the radios, TV stations, all the electronic media have to deliver so-called. electronic shirts to copyright organisations. Since 1 January 2014, independent monitoring of this is carried out by the RRA. It means that whoever the composer, the creator, did some music work, it's being broadcast at any local station, of course, and at national stations, whether it was working or television, however, it will be able to click on the computer in a year when this software is established to know exactly how many times its work has been broadcast and when tomorrow it gets a copy of SOKOJ or OFPS or of the PIO of its fee, it will be able to compare with how much more than its fellow composer has been broadcast and no longer will anyone be able to suspect that it has been stolen, cheated by SOKOJ or anyone else and some composers get much more compared to what they deserve, and some much less. So it's really great to inform all the creators through information technologies, electronic shirt systems and independent monitoring of RRAs, that they can at any moment see how many of their works have been done and thus their rights are more protected. What is the intensity, first, there are some forms in which no compensation has been charged so far, and now it will be charged in accordance with European directives and, on one basis, the revenue will be increased. What is reduced by removing the obligation to pay the music dinar for craftsmen is more than compensated if, I said already, Serbia's public service begins to pay its obligation properly, because they broadcast most, they are of national importance. It has greatly exceeded all income from all craftsmen in Serbia so far. Thus, the mass for the distribution of copyright fees will be greater, and the authors will receive proportionately how many cells broadcast their works and will be able to control personally whether it is so, not through certain SoKOJ assemblies, etc., where they can come and have the influence of only those who are privileged in those institutions, and the largest number of composers and authors there cannot even come.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7320	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7321	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I will speak very briefly. Of course we will support amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, but I couldn't bear not to make a brief comment. I don't think it matters at all, not only in these amendments and additions to this law, but in any law, whose pre-election promises are, but that they come true, if they are in the interest of one layer of the population and of the citizens of Serbia, and in this case they certainly are. I don't think it's enough, although I support it, and I will vote out of my heart for this 70,000, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Minister, people who will somehow be released from one fine. I think it's necessary, and I think your exposure, whether you agree with it or not, is an apology to those citizens. It's a fine that was without every logic. I must tell you, you initiated me by mentioning a kind of craftsman, a shoemaker, three years ago I received a letter from a gentleman, a shoemaker, who unfortunately lost his only son. Paying that tax to the state for him wasn't primarily a financial expense, it was an insult to him and he couldn't bear it. Every day it destroyed him. You can imagine some cobbler who has one, two or three in our cities, in some room of two by three, where we know who's shoes and who in this economic situation is fixing shoes, and doesn't buy new ones, that man listens to the kind of music, any music. So, I get it, whether he's okay with it or not, that the authors should be paid that fee for their copyright, but where are we citizens here? Like, somebody's talking about cars and buses. Where am I, as a citizen, protected by riding on a bus and listening to some music that, objectively speaking, causes me mental pain? That will be confirmed by 90% of Serbian citizens. Okay, maybe it's funny to some people, but this looks like a pre-election campaign to me when we make some monuments to some authors who have literally earned tens of millions of marks and eventually blew it all away, gambled, we all know it, and then they declare themselves a national value and we still give them a pension under the law. I ask where are these citizens? I know the power of God does not beg, what are world standards and European standards, but I am trying, without false modesty, to represent that layer of population from which I come, ordinary citizens. So, I think someone has already said, this circle of people, I think, Mr. Minister, and you said, in the next amendment and addition of the law, you need to expand to some more, so to speak, craftsmen, so to speak. I repeat, I'm really asking, if I'm attending an exhibition or if I came to a restaurant with a family to eat lunch and play some music that's ruining my lunch, where am I as a citizen? Should that author then pay me as a citizen? Let's say, if it turns out, as you say, that shirt on TV or radio stations, which is logic, how many times it's been broadcast, but shouldn't they, say, people say, pay for restaurants and cafes, if they play his music and propagate him? More and more people are trying to get interested in that kind of music, and that's why he's, say, CDs, tapes, records, although there's no more, selling. This should be taken very seriously and do not forget that we are representatives of Serbian citizens, yet most Serbian citizens, who live as they live, and not only the author, although not the disputed right of colleagues who wrote about it, it is in the European spirit, and that is their private property and their work and someone benefits it, but not everyone. You know, 30-40 years ago there was, whatever you think about that time, some ham commission, so they were declaring something that was for the ham, so it can't even be recorded, let alone sell some records. Now everybody's recording everything and they're all authors. What you're laughing at is what I'm saying, I take it as a sign of approval that it's true, that 90% of these authors are actually a national disgrace, frankly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7322	The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7323	I will briefly, prompted by my colleague Mojovic's discussion. I don't think copyrights are discriminated against, I think in this case they're potent, but only for those who do music. The author's work, whether it's musical, written, printed, should be subject to the same rights and the same protection. Why, for example, could a professor at the university be teaching in Arthur Gajton without the students paying taxes on what they're listening to or why someone who wrote a scientific paper can't wait to be quoted somewhere to get his author's work relevant? So, regardless of whether it's the authorial work of any form, I think it should have the same treatment, and so should this musically, which is enough to protect on that medium on which it's being broadcast. So, CD protected, sold, it's something that's an author's work, thereby protecting the copyright of the one who did it. There's no reason to send tax collectors to every pub to see where they listen. I think the effect of the collection of these taxes is very low compared to the costs that follow the very collection of it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7324	Thank you. In the words of MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7325	Our legislation and positive regulations in Serbia protect the rights of the author. Protection of the rights and authors of scientific works and literaryly defined forms. Our judiciary stands at the point of view that there is a need to protect. I have confirmed from my legal practice that our judicial system protects and implements these laws on copyright protection and intellectual property. In this sense, there should be no difference between authors, whether scientific works, literary works, musical works, performers etc. All of this in a certain way belongs to the domain of copyright and related rights, intellectual property rights. I've attacked certain things with this amendment, and I've pointed out what I think is insufficiently defined or not well enough, or that we should deal with it. Mr. Minister defended himself by what I don't attack, even commending. In that part where I didn't put the amendments, in any case the possibility of control and everything that's supposed to be, it's good, but I'm telling you what's not good, and that's exactly what I'm underlining here, what's not good. You see, according to the Court of Justice, the right to compensation must be established, taking into account the value of services provided by society etc. Second thing, Article 3. The Information Society Directive finds that there are exclusive copyrights, because they are recognised by this Article 3. Directs on the information society. That's exactly why I submitted the amendment. These are the reasons why I opened the discussion here, to see if it's a good enough solution or not a good enough solution. It's nice that we explained the EU. And I'm also asking if we've received a feedback -- do these legal solutions satisfy certain attitudes of those who are independent of us here and who can give us advice on whether something needs to be done or not? If in the meantime we have received the consent of the European Commission that this is it and that it is absolutely in line with the European Union rules, I am the happiest. If we have confirmation that it's absolutely okay, then, Art. Three, five, six, I'm ready to withdraw the amendments immediately. But I'm not sure that's it, that we got the feedback, I'm Decidant that's how it is. That is why I am afraid that tomorrow, the Court of Justice of the EU does not come up with any solution which will make us obliged to pay or, in the end, to return this law to the correctional.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7326	The word has Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7327	So this discussion, as well as the discussion in principle, shows that some of the provisions of this law have set us a sort of trap. I would really warn the promoter that in this way, in some sense, it brings together authors on the one hand, craftsmen on the other, all using myself to avoid being misunderstood by some kind of manipulation. Why? All the time in defense of this proposal is spoken, I listen now to my colleagues, small craftsmen, shoemakers, these, they, small spaces, etc., and yet I argue, we free all such solutions – both large and luxurious salons of beauty, and large bakeries, bakeries and pastries. These aren't catering shops. I, Mr. Dinkich, didn't talk about the catering shops. I know they're not freed. Mr. Radovic suggested that they too be released depending on the square, although they pay less compensation depending on the square. Also, I wasn't talking about the records. You said there'd be better records. The obligation to record, to send shirts by a media house, also exist in the law. I fully advocate, I hope, that there will be strict control, surveillance, and that there will be better records. But what does that have to do with what it says in Article 58? The Serbian Constitution – property law can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest, established under the law, with a fee that cannot be lower than the market. A similar definition relating to copyright which can also be of intellectual property rights, of course, is thought of by science and everything else that belongs to authorship, can only be limited by the free will of the author or by the special conditions provided for by law, and we have already established that by the existing law. We were warned about this, so we fixed something in December of last year, and we remain opposed to some members of the already existing law, which I spoke about in principle. So, to be clear, there's no one here in this room, as many of us as there are here now, and there's all 150 of us who won't argue that really small trades are free or at least, to say the least, don't participate in that obligation to pay the music dinar. But I'm not sure that we're all quite ready, at least not, to say -- since we're going to free the little ones, then together we're freeing both the big ones and the ones who make a decent living and the ones who are on the market and the ones who are just because they use other people's copyrights have better traffic. I don't know why the president of the Science Committee informed me that the Committee didn't even want to hear my amendment's proposal, where I had just defined small trades as shops up to 25 square meters and shops dealing with old art crafts because it was reportedly too late and the representatives of the ministry didn't see it. I didn't know when I could suggest otherwise to the Committee, since as an MP, I submitted an amendment that I knew would not be adopted. I tried to get exactly what I was talking about in the principle of determining what small craftsmanship was. The committee is scheduled today at half-hours before the meeting, and I had no other way than to try, through the parent board, to propose this amendment and to establish this definition of small crafts actions by law, and not to invite all of us in our defence of these solutions to them, while denying it. The minister himself does not deny the fact that this also applies to beauty salons, that this also applies to various other craftsmanships. I didn't mention catering, but bakeries, bakeries, pastries, which also have the status of craft shops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7328	Mr. Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7329	Yes, the Constitution already mentions European values and European values are complex, but they do not change every week, and Mr Mikovic well quoted also part of the regulations and part of the directive concerning copyright, as well as court decisions. There's no reason to discuss it. I point everything out, because I don't like it, except in a joke to paraphrase someone wrong, which I see has become a trend here. So, the MP is called Janko Veselinovic, precisely defined, read the definition that is contained in a court ruling which speaks precisely about the conditions when it is considered copyrighted, is precisely the case only works, like this amendment of the law, they only talk about authors, performers and producers of phonograms, music authors. So it doesn't apply to the others or to the discussions. In principle, it is also said that this law, which was normally introduced in this assembly, was a major step in the recognition of different copyrights, but during the application, we noticed that no mechanisms were developed to protect copyrights and collective and individual, all the authors that were recognised in this law, that this law must therefore continue to change. These current changes have a whole series of arguments that we all agree on and I can see that we are ready to support them because they are in the interest of, above all, citizens, and they are exactly in line with a court ruling that defines when someone is believed to be using someone's copyright. So, the number of people who listen to a certain kind of music and when it's primary and when it's not, but it's not right for me to paraphrase it when there's an exact quote from Mr. Janko Veseinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7330	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Mojovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7331	So I had no doubt that our amendment would be rejected. I have already explained that for this reason I have tried to offer a different version of the amendment through the parent committee, or the Committee on Science, Education and Intellectual Property. I didn't even find that understanding. I remain on the claim that this is about one serious one, I would say quite a dangerous, replacement thesis, where in defense of this point, or Article 171a. It actually manipulates and uses some kind of sensitivity that we all have for small craftsmen, craftsmanship, and that we really don't realize that we're opening doors here and all those other people I've already talked about. So also those who have rights, who have opportunities and who are in an enviable and much more envious position on the market, as are already mentioned in bakeries and hair salons and fashion salons, etc. Then the question really arises objectively, have we discriminated against everyone else with this member of the law? I can say that I believe that exhibition spaces are also discriminated against, but I would never argue that we are now one by one liberating different types of users, simply because I think we are then questioning the elemental property rights, i.e. the elemental right of private property, which the authors have. Not to be too long, I'm sorry that in this discussion there is this difficult replacement of thesis, about what little craftsmen are and who will benefit from this law. I am telling you that the biggest benefit will be those who have major craftsmanship, those who have good market revenues, and I am not sure that this income, as Minister Dinkic said they were neatly paid, that due to the lack of that income, no seriously damaged authors will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7332	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7333	I didn't want to comment last time, but I can't help it now. What are these magnificent bakeries, magnificent pastries? You gave a clear amendment, you asked all craftsmen to continue to pay the "music dinar," and that was your clear, either ethically, any political stance, whatever. Did you ask to erase the position that we release permanently all craftsmen to pay this fee? But here we go from the bakery. I don't know if, even if someone has a nicer orderly bakery, did whoever's holding it, manage to do it, thanks to the music they play in that bakery, or do these people get up at the early dawn to mix bread, bread, or something like that? Therefore, real music has no contribution to the creation of value in the sale of products, which they sell on the market. It's really pointless for a music dinar to be charged as one fee, and most of those bakers, for real, are not in such good shape. There are those who look better, again, we can't say that they're rich or anything, because these people do. Earlier they rise from many Serbian citizens. The same goes for pastries. I don't know, really, great-looking treats, if someone better arranges their space, they need to charge him a bigger fee. I don't think that's right, but it's a difference in moral and political attitudes. I don't think that, in a moral sense, there should be any difference in politics. Exactly because the logic of the previous period was, if anyone asked their head instead of encouraging it to be even stronger, one, the other, the third, the tenth, so this was a cake cream, it wasn't basic. There were also companies, there were various parafiscal inducements. This should be lifted, and our policy is to remove such burdens, especially for craftsmen and especially for small entrepreneurs. I just don't see why they wouldn't do it, although I don't dispute your right to have the opposite opinion, but the government doesn't share an opinion and that's why it rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7334	The word has Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7335	Of course, it is very easy to manipulate these views and declare someone who advocates that all private rights be equal, that it is his political and moral right, that I, who advocates that the rights of the author, are respected in a certain way, that I have a moral problem. I don't have any moral problem, because it seems to me that these bill proposals are, not only in the opposite, so you can't exercise the private right of one group at the expense of another's private rights. What was clear to me, that precisely because of this kind of replacement of the thesis, it would be the easiest, not to speak some more difficult words, use them, to say the arguments that would make it clear to people, so they would say, "Well, of course, there are bakers, as we have heard Mr Dinkic now, getting up early." Well, I didn't mean those bakeries. I explained that I tried precisely because of the ability to manipulate this amendment, to delete it in Article 171 of Section 5 and 6, where I suggested that it define what a small craftsman is. If we're talking about small craftsmen and bakeries and pastries, they're up to 25 squares. All over it, so they're not really small and they're not really, like, incompetent. But, of course, the arguments, the bakers get up early, the piemakers work their whole lives, etc. Mr. Dinkic, I used one metaphor last time to explain what private property is. You've confirmed that this applies to both hair salons and fashion salons. And why don't you use that argument now? You say, "Well, these little hairdressing shops." No, for these little hairdressers, I suggest a release, but these magnificent fashion salons, for a manikin, for a pedicure, etc., and the Mala Gallery of the Cultural Centre or a small private one, will continue to pay, because then a number of other questions are asked. So let's define what all these little ones are, who have no conditions to insist on the market, which is not a basic activity, which is not the basis for doing business and those buses and those little caterers and those little galleries, etc. So then we all have arguments to talk about -- and those little local radio stations. To talk about a series of categories they may have earned, also to be excluded or under certain conditions, privileged. I'm just saying that this is a very serious substitute for thesis and that by calling on these small craftsmen, I will repeat what I said in the debate in principle, Minister Dinkic promoted himself as a great artisan protector. He promised it in the election campaign, so, of course, election promises should be fulfilled. These election promises, if they are contrary to the Constitution, International Law, I am also interested in what the European Commission will finally say about these provisions of the law, both to the rules of the profession and to the opinion of professional associations, then these electoral promises should be compared with what is the legal system of the country and international. Of course no one has anything against, on the contrary, we commend the effort to keep election promises, but we cannot violate all international rights and everything that we have committed as a country. Of course we refuse every opportunity to find some kind of, some kind of model where we will constantly point out in our defense of this attitude, that it is a small one, those who have no money, etc., I think we are simply causing that kind of feeling, which, I say, every normal man will be completely, they will say, of course, what they are talking about now, so of course these people should be freed. Look how immoral Mojovicka is, she wants them to pay. That's what you told me, and that's just not true. That's simply not true, because it is, and say once more here in front of everyone, do we also release this provision of this law to large hair salons and fashion salons and beauty care houses, etc. Why don't you use it as an example, but poor bakers who get up at 3:00 in the morning? I've just suggested that you all get up to 25 square feet free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7336	Thank you. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petkovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7337	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently this debate shows that the problem exists, and in this sense I am joining the argument of my fellow Members, who spoke of this bill being unclear, insufficiently precise and opening up the possibility of abuse. I am not interested in what the European Commission is going to say, nor am I interested in what actors, craftsmen in the pre-election video, who are nodding at the rhythm of music, certain political parties, I am interested in what the real craftsmen will say and what they will say, on the other hand, the author, because obviously there is a problem here. For this reason, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 6 and in relation to Article 171a in position 6, where it seeks to change the term of entrepreneurs. As my colleague Milica Radovic has already read, I will quote, a register of business entities, which says the entrepreneur can perform all activities that are not covered by law and for which he meets the prescribed conditions, including old and art crafts and domestic work, and that the minister in charge of the business of the economy, is closer to determining the jobs considered artistic and old crafts. So, with all due respect to the Secretary-General, one cannot decide who will be in one group and who in the other group. Therefore, in point 6 below, it is further stated that under the trades, independent trades and business premises are assumed in which the entrepreneur who pays the tax etc. Here's the problem that other stores are. If again on the other hand we know that, in the words of the entrepreneur, who is very broadly defined here in a legal sense, he can undertake a lot of things when it comes to various groups, very easily, after the adoption of this bill, we can come into a situation that many will demand this status of entrepreneurs and then carry out categorization, and that so, by being in a group of craftsmanship, and we see that in crafts actions, not only does it mean that, you mention that they have fiscal cash registers, which they do not have. What about those who later ask to be in a group of craftsmen's shops, so they don't pay that fee. If you want to solve the problem, the 2013 budget should have set a point where the copyright issue would be clearly resolved, especially when it comes to extra-institutional culture, which is quite endangered, and on the other hand, to free the craftsmen and people who really get up early, working hard, and that music is really just something that's in the corner of these businesses where it doesn't play a major role. That is why we feel that it was necessary to find an adequate expression, to make the right effort to find a solution where, after the adoption of the bill, there could be no different interpretations, the fact that the minister decides who can be the artisan, who, after all, we are passing the law, if we do not fully understand what this is about, because these are the fellow MPs here and mentioned, there may be abuse. In fact, it is our only fear, and we certainly believe that we should keep in mind both craftsmen and spare all those who bloody earn their bread, honorably and honestly and simply the question of using music is just something that is secondary in doing their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7338	The 6th Amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7339	With this amendment, I asked that the Institute for Intellectual Property, which now assumes the competences of the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights, have the right, but also the obligation to give an opinion, and not only the possibility to agree with the proposal for a tariff established by the Management Board of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights. If this amendment would be accepted, this would mean that the Institute for Intellectual Property is given greater powers and has the opportunity to express its negative opinion on the proposal for a tariff of the Management Board, SOKOJ, in a situation where there is no agreement between the collective implementation organisation, i.e. the exercise of copyright and related rights, and the representative association of users. We know what happened in December 2011, when the SOKOJ Management Board came up with a proposal for a tariff that was astronomically increased and what problems in practice were all this kind of tariff on which the Copyright and Related Rights Commission gave its consent, and caused it. That is why it was also the intention of this amendment to give the Institute of Intellectual Property the opportunity to give a negative opinion. We now have a provision in the law that says that the Institute of Intellectual Property agrees with the proposal for a tariff established by the organization. I don't think that's good, especially if we know and remember the experiences we had in December 2011. I'm just going to remind myself that that's when the fees went up to 550% for radio stations, so let's say for stations that broadcast music, they increased from 353% for television, to 550% for radio stations, and thus the survival of broadcasting was seriously questioned. Of course, I'm not talking about the survival of RTS or any other national frequency media, I'm primarily talking about the survival of small local and regional media. As a consequence of this and in this way, a certain tariff has been caused in practice, I can best support only one example, that in September and October this year, the RRA launched 67 procedures for the withdrawal of the programme's broadcasting permit, due to the failure to pay compensation for this broadcast. I don't think any of us in this House would want to do this, and I think the amendment is fully in place. He's definitely not allowed by his definition of one possibility like this. Of course, when we talk about this fee, it is necessary to draw attention to something that has proved to be a problem in practice. In fact, I'm not entirely sure whether the sublegal acts that had to be passed in order to implement this law are fully in practice, whether exactly everything that falls under the obligation to pay the fee is foreseen. How much of the law, as well as sublegal acts, is unclear, best shows the example of one hairdresser's owner, which we all know, which, because of the ringing of a mobile phone, had to be in a position to pay compensation for using phonograms in the amount of 11,000 dinars, because the phonogram producer's inspector treated that bell from her mobile phone as a musical number that is under the protection of copyright and related rights. This example is well known to all of us, it has been written a lot about him, but I know that the minister will say that this issue has been resolved in practice, but the other issues are not resolved in practice and I am certainly behind this that the inspector of the organization, the phonogram producer, when he leaves for inspection, is not entirely sure what is in the amount of compensation and that exactly the inaccuracies of the laws and sublegal acts that this law carries out in the work, in which case they are not clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7340	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7341	I have to admit that you've brought a little confusion into my thinking, because this is all you're saying, actually, in addition to how the government formulated it, not how you've given the amendment. A stronger word is consent than an opinion. Consensus is binding, and opinion is optional. We have provided for this member of the law that the Institute of Intellectual Property gives consent, which gives him a stronger strength on these tariffs, not an opinion. Opinion can be positive, negative, and consent, if yes, is positive, and if not given consent, it's negative, it's binding. So, you're looking for more power for the Institute of Intellectual Property, and our opinion is that consent, the word is better than the word opinion, because it gives more power, actually, goes in the direction of what you're looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7342	Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7343	I disagree with you, because opinion can also be negative consent. It's understood that she's here for consent. It never happened in practice that someone didn't give consent. This is how, when you give him the opportunity to express his negative opinion, it is understood that the proposal for a tariff established by the board of directors, when the agreement between the organisation for the exercise of copyright and related rights and the user association itself did not occur. I think it's much better that she has the opportunity to give her negative opinion, but the difference is in understanding and it's different from the position we're deciding on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7344	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7345	I'm going to contribute a little more confusion now. I don't think the commission should have been abolished either because the commission had five members and was called the Copyright and Related Rights Commission. That was, now I'm saying either because you're likely to adopt this bill, a professional body authorized to give an opinion in the field of copyright and related rights on the proposal for a tariff proposed by organisations. I know there were a lot of problems in the previous period, that it was difficult to reach an agreement, that it was then some proposals that were not realistic or were unrealistic, etc., but it's kind of a practice for all new institutions and bodies that are being set up by some system laws. I don't think it was necessary to rush off the board, but maybe give it a little bit more time to get that body better. It's fate with all the new advice, commissions, etc. which we establish by various laws. This is the 2009 law, and this is 2012. So there was only a few years. But you will end it with this bill. My amendment also goes in that direction to change the word "consent" in the word "thinking" for similar reasons that my colleague cited. Anyway, here, instead of the commission, a decisive role of the Institute of Intellectual Property is being introduced. It is one of the state authorities that deserves all praise, following their work as an MP and hiring them when it comes to various bill proposals. From the Institute, let's say the Ministry of Culture, now the Ministry of Education and Science, to whom the Institute has been assigned, they also participate in the adoption of some very important draft laws. There's something else I'd like to talk to you about right now. On the website of the Institute of Intellectual Property, I don't know if the MPs were looking at it, you have a report on the work of the Institute of Intellectual Property for the previous years, so I think they've had reports since 2004. Getting ready for this bill, I went to see how many works of art are recorded and deposited annually in Serbia. That's what they say professionally. Then you can see that since 2009, about 300 works have been recorded and deposited, 310 since 2009, but in 2008 there have been twice as many. So there were about 800 of them. So that year they obviously changed the fees and fees for registering and depositing copyright rights. They say, however, that the number of related rights cases in 2009 decreased significantly compared to 2008 due to a major increase in tax. If we are talking about craftsmanship here and how important it is to work, that is, to the survival of these craftsmanships, I personally don't think it's going to do much good to take off this kind of influence. However, that's where it accumulates, because there's some more parafiscal intrusions, whatever that means. There may be some savings there, but I don't think it's going to be decisive for their work, for hiring new workers and for survival. We know that over the past few years, a lot of craftsmanship has failed. So I'm saying that this music dinar is not going to have anything significant to do with it being abolished. Now I'm going to defend my rights and my authors a little bit. I've shown through this statistic that because of the increase in fees for recording and depositing copyright works, it's double reduced. Does the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, together with the Institute, intend to reduce that fee so that all authors can record and deposit their works of authorship?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7346	Thank you. The 10th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7347	Thank you. This amendment, i.e. the supplement and the amendments, was already the subject of an electronic broadcast and re-emission recording obligation or how I hear that it is called in the jargon – the obligation to keep an electronic shirt, or that all broadcasters will have an obligation to keep records of what is publicly announced, so to speak in general. Here I suggested that this obligation be moved, not to start on 1 January 2014, but in January 2013, or immediately next year, primarily because the losses for authors are great if another year goes by. Secondly, I must admit I was very surprised that such records were not kept at all. I do know some parts of this broadcasting law, and I know that there are certain obligations that the RRA has to do and fulfil. I'm amazed that the emitters didn't keep such a record, whether it was electronic, whether it was on paper, and that no one bothered to check how much and when the works were broadcast or re-emissioned. It's my problem that I was surprised and the problem that so far no one's taken care of it. The second why I suggest that this start immediately next year is because I assume that this electronic shirt is some software program that is not difficult to install and start entering the relevant data immediately and informing whoever needs to be notified. So I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7348	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7349	I'd be happy to accept if they could do it in practice. It would have been best if they had introduced it sooner. The fact is that today's broadcasters deliver some shirts and it's mostly non-electronic but there's no evidence that it's being broadcast, as it's written because there's no independent control by any body like we suggest it's an RRA. This is one of the big moves. With whoever author you're talking to, every doubt of justice is distributed. The only way to determine for all time exactly who's being broadcast, who's the most listener, who deserves the whole IT system, first of all with the emitter then independent control by the RRA and therefore the right of the author to enter that database every week and to check if he wants how many times he's broadcast. At the end when he gets the fee he can compare that data, because it's not small funds. These fees cost millions of euros a year, so I don't go to the exact number because it's not available to me. There is a great dissatisfaction with almost all the authors I know. But this system can't function for the next 15, 20 days, as you said. The organizations themselves agreed to introduce this. We asked around, they have the software they bought, the RRA needs to install its own, and we gave it a year because they asked for it. If they did, I'd be very happy. It's a good way to think about it, but for technical reasons, they've been looking for this delay since 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7350	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7351	Thank you, after the amendment. I also think that this is one of the very good solutions to this law, because it will finally introduce order in this area that has been completely unsettled and there have been many confusions among the authors. I'm glad we've cleared up the dilemma about whether the minister who is at the same time and the author is in conflict of interest, since we've heard numerous objections that this is a law against the author, and on the other hand we see arguments that he helps the authors to exercise their rights. The fact is that he is not on either side, but on the side of a regulated system that brings significant newspapers to this area. Electronic shirts are necessary because some authors, in principle, have already spoken about the SARS group that made 16 dinars in the name of broadcasting their very famous number "awake bread", so I'm sure that with electronic shirts it won't happen in the future. I have to say that I have one, not a reserve, but a dose of caution when it comes to RRA, and I want to call on all of us MPs and the Committee on Culture and Information to control the work of the RRA to a greater extent, because the experience of all citizens with the control they have over the broadcasters is not always for the satisfaction of the citizens. There have been numerous situations where they have failed to do what they are obliged to do in terms of giving notices or penalties to broadcasters who have indeed worked against public interests by broadcasting some of the contents that have been inappropriate. I hope that in this case, they will succeed in strengthening their capacities and will be able to fully implement this law. I believe that it takes a little time, but I'm sure of myself and I believe that I have the support of other colleagues that the Assembly must exercise much stronger control over the work of this independent body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7352	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7353	My colleague mostly said what I wanted to ask. So the Assembly is doing stronger and greater supervision of the RRA and I expect the RRA to monitor whether the emitters will properly and how these electronic shirts should be filled. That doesn't exactly promise, or do you think the RRA can do this job the way it is today?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7354	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7355	They are also competent to perform such and similar tasks. If they were able to monitor broadcast propaganda messages during the campaign, where exactly there is a way software to determine which party had how many seconds of videos on TV. It's a pure thing of software and it's quite possible to control exactly what who broadcast it. Software connects with emitters and RRAs and then is monitored in real time what happens online.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7356	The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7357	Here's a little replica of a colleague who knows exactly what I'm going to say. It is the meaning of independent bodies. They're independent of the executive, but they're dependent on those who chose them, which is us. So I'm not saying this by accident since I've been to the Ministry of Culture and I've been asked very often why the Ministry doesn't control the RRA? The Ministry can't control the RRA. Only the Assembly can control the RRA, and in that sense I also said to remind us that it is our obligation and that we should do so. It is the purpose of the existence of independent bodies, that they be independent of the government, but they must be dependent on the citizens and we have chosen them here on behalf of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7358	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7359	I just wanted to ask Minister Dinkic, because I don't know if we gave up on that idea, but in the assembly we heard several times that there was an idea in the context of optimization of the number of agencies and regulatory bodies to unite the agencies for telecommunications and broadcasting agencies. Then what happens if it happens for the next few months? How does this affect this whole process if the idea hasn't given up?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7360	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7361	I'm not an expert in telecommunications and I'm not going to give my judgment on whether these two institutions need to be united. Let the professional public assess it. For now, as far as I know, there are no plans to unite them. No real plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7362	Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7363	I didn't mean professionally, of course experts would tell their whether they needed it or not. We have heard several times the promise that in this process the number of agencies and these two will be united, in that sense I asked you not as a telecommunications expert. I'm no expert on the area either, but we've heard this very clearly said idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7364	Here you go, Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7365	We have not received such an initiative from the restoring ministry that is responsible for this area until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-12-0.u7366	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're finishing work for today and we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
