ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6432	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Meso Omerovic and Milorad Stojsic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform myself that, in the light of the joint principled search on the proposals of the laws of the 5th to 12th agenda, I have called on the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Master Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Professor Dr Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, to attend the session and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Andrijana Stojković, Senior Executive Director at the Agency for Privatisation, Dragodar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance of Finance, the Ministry of Finance of Finance and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of We continue the joint principled search on proposals for the law referred to in points 5 to 12 of the agenda. The word is from the MP Slobodan Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6433	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, I appeal to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and I address the Vice-President of the Assembly to you, Mrs. Kovac, who runs this session of the day. We all know that for 24 hours or more, our citizens in Jarinj are trying to prevent a border crossing between Serbia and Kosovo. It is a terrible situation that, if you follow, no man can bypass without at least expressing intimately in himself a sign of solidarity, given their efforts that they are now making. It can be extremely surreal for this congregation to work regularly and regularly in such a situation. I understand, the Assembly has its jobs and tasks on the agenda, but this is really an emergency. It's not a strike, it's not some street trip to pursue some kind of partial interest. This is a citizens' struggle for the most important interests of the Serbian state. These interests are quite clear, that it remains in its territorial integrity and to preserve its sovereignty. They do it convinced they're right. The DSS and DSS parliamentary groups as parties support them in this because they believe they are indeed right. Therefore, Madam Vice President, we propose that this assembly, the work of this session be suspended indefinitely or at least for today, in order to first express political solidarity with people. We are the people's representatives and MPs here. The people there are protesting on behalf of the people, i.e. And there's a strong connection here to do it, so to break it up, we'll see if for a while or at least for today, as I said, and to express that solidarity with that gesture. Perhaps not just that gesture, but perhaps the MPs need to make one move more, so they can go there, really and physically solidarity with people who are on their tits in the winter and who keep this country's dignity. As far as the DSS is concerned, the MPs of this MP club are already there and we will be there for the next few days, but it is not about us, it is about the Assembly, about its role in this country and its top political dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6434	Time. Mr Samardzic, for the time being we will continue to work, and the president will join us, so he will decide whether to proceed or to interrupt the session. Excuse me, Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic came to the O.R. in the meantime, and I read he was absent. He's still here now. We're going back to work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6435	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been waiting for my colleagues to come out. It's on the agenda of eight laws and I'll try to talk about some of them. The proposal for a privatisation law, as I understand it, leaves a certain deadline for companies that are still state-owned and belonging to the Privatisation Agency to be put on them for a year and a half to reform. I'll support this, considering they're making huge losses. But there's one handicap about this law. There's about 100,000 people working in these companies right now. I expect the government to create a program with these 100,000 people working in state-owned companies, that if the Privatisation Agency fails to host these companies, in some ways these employees are employed in other places, so to create some new programs where these people will be employed. I note that these companies are making huge losses, but they also have 100,000 people working in them. As for the bill of transactions and payment deadlines, of course I'll support that, with one reserve. A tight interest rate in non-payment is a reference interest rate plus 8%, which is more or less fine, but had another Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which says that if we owe a tax, then our interest rate is a reference rate of the National Bank plus 10%. Now we come into a position that if someone didn't pay us 100,000 dinars and if we owe those 100,000 dinars to the Republic, so, after a few years, when we charge all that heavy interest, that tight interest and the principal won't be enough to pay those 100,000 dinars of taxes. So we're going to need far more money than we're going to get on tight interest unless we charge the goods. I suggest that, in some future changes and additions to the Tax Administration Act, interest is equalized, i.e. the tightening interest is equal in both cases, so that it is a reference interest rate plus 8% or plus 10% in both cases, so that we do not come into collage of two laws. The third law is the law on the write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt. Of course, I will support the government in trying to charge the company, especially with these active companies 1.7 billion euros, to help them keep their tax debt still, and to write off their interest. I have one reserve here, and the legislator should have predicted that they would pay regularly in a certain way to stimulate, i.e. that they are given a percentage of those who regularly settle their tax obligations, that a certain percentage is counted as tax credit and that in such a way the other taxpayers know that, say, five or ten percent will be stimulated if they regularly settle their tax obligations. These laws also write off contributions to health insurance because these people have not been treated, and here we have a problem. We have a problem that someone who's not employed is health and social security, but someone who's ill-employed, with a secret right to treatment because his book isn't certified. It's a very bad message, because a worker can't choose which company to hire, nor can he be psychic, to know if the employer will be paying his contributions in the future. So it becomes absolutely unprotected, and nothing saves him that the government of Serbia or the Ministry of Finance will, after a certain period of time, free the employer from paying for health insurance, since the workers did not use health care during the period when the health contributions were not paid. The farmer's comfort is also poor, if we know that social cases have the right to health care, and farmers who do not comply with health insurance and PIO insurance do not have the right to be treated because their book has not been certified. In these situations we come up with a clear message that it's better to be a social case than a peasant and it's very bad for the state. As far as the law on public enterprises is concerned, it is clear that about the most speakers have spoken about it, therefore, political parties, by establishing local, regional and republican authorities, are in a position to manage in a certain way public enterprises that are of general interest. Not every citizen can make his own way, he can't keep up the road, not every citizen can collect garbage, he can't supply himself with water. These are common general interests that public enterprises should take care of, in the same way as private companies' owners look after their private companies. However, this is not the case with public enterprises. Yesterday someone said they were buying councilmen, they weren't bossing public enterprises. I have to remind one of the former regime's parties that they made it up and invented it right after the election, that now the current president of the party and then the president together went to Leskovac and said that the committees were the owners of the mandate and that the committees formed local and all other authorities, not political parties. Obviously, there's been a fat turn, as always, there's no principle. Meanwhile, the former regime's party has changed its mind and is now on the grounds that the committees, i.e. citizens' representatives, are not the owners of the mandate, or that they do not rule local self-government, the province and the republic, but that they do so by political parties. So these double standards with them surprise me. Public enterprises are also known to us as party registers. I'm from the People's Peasants' Party, small parties that don't have any public enterprises, and that's why they often say my party is minor, they talk to me about misrepresentation. If I had party registers in public companies like they had some parties, I think I'd win 100% of the votes. In these public undertakings, real party armies work in boards, and I want to point out that I will support this law, because through supervisory committees, the number of members of the Supervisory Board is reduced to three in local self-governments, and in the republic to five, by giving three authorities in the republic and the province, and by one or two, they are giving independent, or employees in these companies. In local self-government, we'll only have three members of the Supervisory Board, and now these boards are counting 10 members. So that some party army is going to shrink a little bit, so this is a good step in the right direction, but I think these reforms should have been even more radical. What should be noted is that public enterprises were the biggest source of corruption, especially during the former regime. One authority, which has gone, should be appreciated for the situation they have left for us. As for public enterprises, public enterprises, which are lost over three billion euros, have been left behind. These are companies that have suddenly begun to lose their capital and their assets and have three times more valuable capital than private enterprises, and are making losses that are five times greater than the loss of private enterprises. In these public companies, there are 180,000 workers, of which 70,000 in Belgrade and those 100,000 in state-owned enterprises, which are under the control of the Privatisation Agency, and we reach the number of 280,000, so over 12% are working in state-owned and public-owned enterprises. National and local subsidies amounted to over 390m euros for subsidies to public enterprises held by parties in the previous period, and therefore do not understand objections coming from the former regime's party. I think you needed an even more aggressive reform. As far as RTS is concerned, as soon as you touch it, big shit rises up, and I don't think it was a public service, that it was, first of all, the cash service of a mayor and the current president of a former regime party there, and I'm afraid... (President: Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic. I'm in the dark. I'm in the dark far more than the ones who banged five six replicas yesterday, and I don't know why. As far as I know, this law says something about information, and that's exactly what I'm talking about, that citizens finance, among other things, from public enterprises, and they finance public service, at least I finance it three times in three numbers. If you don't allow it, of course I won't touch that majesty back there for which I owe him an apology. I told him he was a billionaire and I apologize to him, he's a multibillionaire. As for public enterprises, there are 570 public enterprises in Serbia and we have 8,242 directors and deputies. It is 16 directors, deputies and various executive directors per public enterprise and over 100m euros are allocated for their salaries annually. After one company, 20,000 euros per month are allocated only to directors, or college directors, or various directors, assistants, etc. It is not up to you to talk about spokesmans, secretaries, secretaries, spokesmans, etc., to prove to you that in public enterprises it is a party army that burdens corrupt citizens and which, by introducing communal police and various repressive apparatus, has led citizens to do so, as if they are not living in a state-run Serbia but in a "yellow house", only the municipal police and executive judicial authorities need to extract our kidneys and internal organs unless we pay a local utility tax. They are very versatile, wanting to pick up as much as possible and to contribute as much money to their parties in this way. It should also be said that this is a great source of corruption, that these directors and mayors of ordinary citizens in pre-election campaigns, bribed them with money from these public enterprises, told them fairy tales, and now, after the election, they're making castles, they're bringing capital to their private firms, they're even bringing money abroad to private accounts, and I think that these laws should be supported, although I just think they should have been far more radical in reforms and that they should have completely disbursed the parties in public enterprises, that we don't have any party army, because this is our economy, our country, whose public debt, business debt and debt of citizens, can't last any longer and the cut here had to be much better. The private sector continues to live as it must, and the public sector still wants to live as it pleases. That it was stolen and that Dusan's code was in force, which says that thieves, robbers, and any authorities who tolerate it, have to hang themselves upside down and blind themselves because of the thieving. I'm afraid there would be a lot of white sticks today and some of them would talk and work really hard in this congregation upside down. Also, if some Sharia law were in force, because of these public enterprises, they would vote on their feet instead of their hands, and have nothing to put their precious watches on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6436	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6437	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SNS will vote in favour of this set of laws, as SNS representatives have said, of these laws that are on the agenda in the National Assembly. As for the law on public enterprises, the SNS believes it is one of the SNS' pre-election promises, such as yesterday's colleagues and said, and is also the result of the definition that the Governments of the Republic of Serbia led by Mr Dacic, as well as the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as well as the Coordinator of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to fight crime and corruption, Aleksandr Vukic, to deal with the biggest problems of Serbian society, corruption and crime, as a fundamental assumption for better economic development of the country in general. The law on public enterprises, among other things, aims to reduce corruption and crime through its mechanisms, as they certainly destroy Serbian society in general today. These days, we are witnessing that 370m dinars have been embezzled in JP "Purity" in Belgrade and that the DS party personnel, primarily Dragan Gilas, have been sentenced to 73 years in prison. It's so-called. Garbage mafia and affair, etc. (President: Mr. Atlagic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, that's his name and that's his judgment. It's not my fault you're not reading. It should be noted that this law on public enterprises was done in co-operation with the World Bank, which gives it additional value and strength, although yesterday DS MPs doubted this part, and gives it additional weight and guarantee that we are on the right track. As a newspaper, the Company Act introduces professionalization of work and public work in the company. This means, in addition, professionalising management through the appointment and resolution of directors of public enterprises and through supervisory committees. The company will be headed by people who will be responsible for their results, and will be elected by public competitions, not political lines. So in one transparent way, and they will have to meet exactly certain criteria. It'll be easier to change than it's ever been. Employment of people in public enterprises, not only in leading jobs, will depend on the future professional traits of staff, not on the political option, as we had until today. Today they work mostly in public companies party staff and their families or extended relatives, godfathers, mistresses, and very often do not have a minimum of professional equipment for the work they do, which directly affected business and led to massive losses. Public enterprises in Serbia have been operating four and a half billion euros in losses over political personnel since 2000. It's about three power plants, and we're importing electricity 20% annually, and we could build three power plants out of these losses and not import anymore, but export electricity. That is why it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia's commitment to more electricity and agriculture. In my opinion, that's extremely good. Professionalisation of public enterprises inevitably leads to greater efficiency in work, transparency of work and results of work and reduces corruption and crime. The essence of changes in public enterprises is the introduction of instruments of public competition. Therefore, the removal of boards of directors in public enterprises that were a haven for the failure of party personnel, and very often without medium professional training. They will now be replaced by experts in supervisory committees, and full public insight into the work of each and least public enterprise is provided. This law finally allows public sector reform, as public enterprises are beneficiaries of subsidies, and this is only the first step in a comprehensive public sector reform that will end on 1 June 2014 when the full restructuring process will be completed. What are we doing at the end of these amendments to the law on public enterprises? I'll only list 11 things. First of all, we're terminating the professionalization of personnel. Secondly, we contribute to the process of decommissioning companies. Third, the responsibility of the executives is in place. Fourthly, there is a more efficient business of public enterprises. Fifthly, more effective work control is being carried out. The sixth, better transparency of work is being carried out, thus curbing corruption and crime. Seven, there is a better evaluation of the results of the work. Eight, the motivation of the workers is increasing. Ten, better pay. Eleven, better service to our citizens, which is very important. Therefore, SNS MPs will vote in favour of a set of these laws, as all are aware of these listed values and advantages in the functioning of public enterprises, which was one of the SNS' pre-election promises. To this end, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the opposition to vote for this law and thus show that you are at the height of the task of the MP, because this law is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and is a step forward in relation to the existing one, and we are the realisers of the will of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6438	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dejan Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6439	President, Article 107, you are obliged to react more seriously and sharply when this is the way you break and disrespect the dignity of the National Assembly. When it comes to all MPs, especially those parties that have a principle for public enterprises. If you want a better public enterprise, give it to him who destroyed his own. If anyone's convicted, tell them who's convicted, name and last name. If he's a member of a party, say he's a member of which party. This is how it speaks to the public, and I ask you to second time warn people who are false, and these are certainly not DS members, nor have anything to do with Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6440	Thank you. Let me tell you, if you were present, you noticed that I warned Mr Atlagic Mr. Atlagic, you have no right to a replica. [[Marko Atlagic, from place: Right to replica.]] In the words of the People's Messenger Nebojsa Beric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6441	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Law on Public Enterprises in its current practice and application has shown certain shortcomings that have been manifested both in the selection of the managing authorities and in their work. One of the biggest shortcomings is the transformation of public enterprises into certain types of party exposures, where almost all members of the management body are elected according to the principle of party membership and the ruling furniture. Positioning was done on the principle of greater political subordination, which is also a higher position in certain governance bodies. This way of managing public enterprises has resulted in an increase in the number of employees. In some cases several times larger than the optimal number, on the one hand, sucking huge funds from public enterprises and rerouting them both to finance the work of political parties, so to finance unnecessary projects, where through a already stalking scheme businesses are given to companies whose owners are directly related to the relevant political powers. All this together has led to many public enterprises in a very difficult position today. In order to avoid this kind of thing, in order to eliminate all these shortcomings, we have before us a new proposal for a law on public enterprises which clearly defines procedures on the selection of management bodies that will lead to the full departementisation and depolitisation of the work of public enterprises. The essential advantages of this proposal for a law on public enterprises have been applied so far. The introduction of a category of public competition on the basis of which a director will be elected with precisely defined conditions that a person must fulfil in order to be a candidate at all and later elected as director for a specified time, which is one of the newspapers in this law. The second advantage of this bill is that public competitions will be conducted by independent expert commissions in a clearly defined procedure that will be fully available to the public. Third, public companies are introducing a control mechanism through the existence of audit committees to deal with the financial work of the company. Instead of the boards of directors, supervisory committees shall be introduced, regardless of whether it is a one-cameral or two-home management, whose members will have to be highly educated people whose expertise and multi-annual work and experience is closely related to the area of public enterprises' functioning. Finally, a suspension mechanism shall be introduced for the Director to be activated unless the Director executes the decision of the Supervisory Board, if it is found to be working on damage to the public undertaking, if it violates the duties of the Director and so on. This mechanism will also raise the level of responsibility, self-awareness and professionalization of the work of business management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6442	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6443	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are discussing a set of laws that circle the fiscal consolidation plan of the Republic of Serbia and introduces complete financial discipline, which the Republic of Serbia needed. The proposed laws increase liquidity and reduce costs, which is fully compatible with the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and with the rebalance for 2012 and in general with the plan and policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One of the laws we are discussing today is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, which was hardly mentioned in yesterday's and yesterday's debate, except for the presentation of Mr Petronijevic and my distinguished colleague, Milanka Vukojčić, from the SNS. Probably because this law has only one member who has a deadline for the distribution of composite insurance companies to move to 31 December 2013. Compositing companies in Serbia's overall premium of insurance are participating with more than 80%, and there is a need for the demarcation of life insurance and non-life insurance. The main reason for this trend and for this attitude is the intention of the supervisory authority to reduce risks, to use the financial resources of life insurance in the event of economic problems in non-life insurance, or to overrun an aggressive price policy that is in force in non-life insurance. The Serbian Progressive Party agrees and believes it is necessary to reduce the risks of spending life-saving funds into non-life insurance, but I am also sure that if, at this time, a composite insurance company, composite insurance companies start dividing into a life-and-life portion, that they will not succeed in doing so in a year, until 31 December 2013, in a good way. It is therefore necessary that next year, in the first half, at the regular spring session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we adopt a new insurance law, which will leave open the possibility for current composite insurance companies to continue with the simultaneous implementation of both groups of operations, because these are values recognised by EU legislation and fully agreed with the SNS, of course, with the fulfilment of certain conditions. These conditions are, of course, that the accounting of individual insurance groups must be managed separately, i.e. to separate the balances, capital and minimum guarantee funds also have to be shown separately for life and especially for non-life insurance, the investment portfolio must also be demonstrated especially for life insurance, and in particular for non-life insurance, and that the transfer of funds from one group to another, which is usually from life insurance to non-life insurance, can be carried out only with the prior consent of the Supervisory Board. All of this would lead to composite societies continuing to work and working at lower costs than they would if they were completely separated. These lower costs would lead to insurance being cheaper and all of this would be overrun by citizens and businesses as insurance users, and I think that all of us sitting in this hall, which we represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are for that kind of value and we stand for it. For this reason, I believe that this draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and this future insurance law are acceptable, i.e. they should be acceptable to all parliamentary groups. The law on public enterprises is an important system and reform law, which has caused the most controversy and public attention. I think this law is the first and hardest step, but it's extremely important, because behind that first step is going to follow many others and going back to the old one, there's no going back. As counterpart Arsic said in the debate, SNS may not be satisfied with the length of the move, but we are much more pleased with the fact that this step has been taken and that it has entered the process of departing public enterprises. In this House, MPs of political parties who have participated in different aggregate states and at different levels of government, from local self-government, municipalities, cities, autonomous provinces to the Republic, whether in power or not during some period. That is why it seems cynical to me that the greatest criticisms of this bill on public enterprises, where the first step, again I say, may not have been long enough, but it has come from those who until May elections had full control over all the mechanisms of government, who had the full power to change all these things, but during the period when they exercised power, they have nurtured the party state and the party as the greatest value, and now they are concerned about the evil fate of public enterprises that may be led by the directors elected in the competition, who will freeze their function in the political party, if possible, but not crucially, they belong. I accept criticism and consider them well-intentioned by those who act reformistly, who, in the case of showing how and what to do, but who are critical of those people who have the opportunity to change things in Serbia or in parts of Serbia, who do not, because, for example, with all the agreement with my colleague Đurić, I do not mention it because I would challenge the replica, but because I agree with such a view that we cannot put a target on anyone, nor can we put a target on, I will read the names and names of some people who are the high officials of a party who have referred the biggest criticism to this law on public procurement, and are doing the most responsible jobs in the city of Belgrade. Cvijo Babić – Vice-President of the City Board of DS and Director of Belgrade Water and sewerage Vladimir Bogicevic – Director of "Zelenila Belgrade", Bojan Milić – Director of "Infostana", Radovan Draškic – Director of "City Cleanliness", Boban Kovacevic – Director of "Parking Services", Nebojsa Ceran – Director of GSP, and I find it sometimes the director of a large republican public enterprise such as the "Colubara" here. What's that now? On the one hand, we criticise the possibility of some future director elected to the competition to freeze his membership in a political party, and here these people exercise power in Belgrade, run the largest public enterprises and are senior party officials in Belgrade. What few have spoken of in the past two to three days, and this, Mr. Minister, is an invitation for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do a financial analysis of what this law will do well. This law on public undertakings provides for two-domestic companies only if they are established by the Republic. These two homes are the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. The Executive Board shall consist of executive directors already working in that public undertaking and shall receive salaries in that public undertaking and shall not receive any compensation for membership on the Executive Board. In the future, the Supervisory Boards, for public enterprises established by the Republic, will make up five people, unlike the current ones where, say, the Airport has twelve members, the Post office of nine board members, etc. For local public enterprises, i.e. public enterprises that are the founder of units of local self-government, municipalities, cities or autonomous provinces, the supervisory board will have three people, unlike where we have eleven members in the City Transport Company "Belgrade". These board members are now receiving some compensation, and that compensation is not small. In Belgrade, for example, there are 40,000 dinars in the pipeline and in the sewerage of compensation for membership in the board of directors, in Greeniel 48,000, in the city's cleanliness of 40,000, in the GSP 50,000 dinars. Eleven members per 50,000 dinar, that's 550,000 dinars, so much for membership in the City Transport Company Management Board in Belgrade. That much net monthly costs the citizens of Belgrade. I will, and I would love to, and it will be one of the asked parliamentary questions of the SNS in the future, that I know what the financial effect of this law is, when we bring 11 members down to three, who will receive 50,000, 150,000? This law in a public enterprise such as the GSP will save 400,000 dinars. Well, how many such public enterprises are that around Belgrade, which in the interior, are all over Serbia. What I would also like to commend is Article 33(3). – that the Director of the Public Enterprise is based on a working relationship for a certain period of time. Someone who came as a pro in the competition to start working, to run this public enterprise, cannot, after the term of office expires, remain in the public enterprise and burden the public sector. That's good because we have cases where the directors of public enterprises stayed there, and then the next government comes, then the next government, and that's how the number of people in the public administration piled up. What I heard, and I'm sorry that my colleague Vukkovic, whom I highly respect, is not there, but what she said as a criticism, under one, is an expert cook. Because we remain unclear, we cannot read the law by reading each third member, and in one article every fifth row or every sixth attitude. We have to read the law from beginning to end. I'd like to, since she said that there's a misunderstanding in who can lead, which expert prepares is appropriate for the management of public enterprises, whether they're basic studies, whether they're master, master's, specialist or doctoral studies. I wish only those critics would say who can't run the public company. Can't a master run a public firm? Can't someone who's done basic studies run a public company? If you're criticizing that attitude, tell me who can't. Talk to these people, so tell me, a doctor can't run a public company, he can't go public in a competition. The second criticism was about stimulation. Article 24 clearly states – the Director and the Executive Director are entitled to profit compensation and may be entitled to stimulation in the event that the public undertaking operates with positive business results. What does this mean? For this solution to be signed by the government, but it is not necessary for that future director to be, it fulfils the government's tasks to be stimulated, to be rewarded, it must provide positive business results. It's basic, not like so far, "radio doesn't radio you radio". What were the incentives for public enterprises? What were the salaries of the director of public enterprises? Here we have a colleague sitting in the past term, led by a large public company, "Serb Railways", which, by the way, are losers for many years. How many salaries were there? How many salaries were made in the public sector until the Public Sector Taxation Act was passed? Did someone control it? It's not. Let's add all that up, don't read every fourth, fifth attitude. Yes, the government only signs if positive business results are achieved. If you increase your gain or reduce your loss. What I would also point out, which are members of 38th and 39th, which clearly define very strict reasons for resolution. Who has been resolved by the director of public enterprises so far because of bad business results? No one, no one's been cleared. Who was responsible and replaced because of the failure of the business programme? The business programme is being adopted for a period of one year. I consider that business program a passing time. Mr. Director, you haven't met your time, you're having a bad time, you go to the bench, you go to the theater, you have to get in the next player, you have to get in the one who's going to work better, faster. That's why these members of 38th and 39th are where the director of a public firm who makes and signs such a business plan will send him to the founder for adoption, he'll think twice before he signs it, because he knows that in a year he has to fulfill it or leave. These are passing times, that's good, we can't wait for the end of the mandate, we can't wait four years, a year, more often and even more often. In the end, I apologize for the temperament, but it's part of just my way of expressing it. In voter day, the SNS will support this whole set of laws because we believe they are making a better deal for the citizens of Serbia and because they are an important shift in the financial consolidation of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6444	Mr. Mikovic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6445	About the replica... I'm mentioned... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6446	You have no right to a replica. Mr. Mikovic and you are not mentioned, Mr. Veselinovic has the right to reply because of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6447	Thank you, Chairman. I am now a little surprised, given the fact that Honorable counterpart Babic has now announced that his party will support this set of laws. Why? Because when they applied for the discussion they were defined as undefined. Meanwhile, the minister probably convinced them that they should vote in favour of the law, i.e. abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the possibility of identifying themselves as undefined, so as to speak at the end of the debate. What it is for the ruling coalition is still a little humiliating. They have enough time from the minister's pay phone, or from where the minister is to speak, to use that possibility to abuse the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, I would still like to hear the answer to the question that Minister Dinkic left open when he said yesterday that there is not enough political will to departise public enterprises. I would like to know who in the ruling coalition does not have the will to secede, whether it is SNS ministers and MPs, the SPS or whether it is Minister Dinkic, whether he opposes the departisation of public enterprises. On the other hand, the story we heard from Mr. Babic about freezing functions. We asked for a definition yesterday, which means freezing. We were the highest SNS official Mrs. Jorvanko Tabakovic's last day on the SNS's main board.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6448	Mrs. Vuckovic, you've been reported, please sign in again if you want a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6449	Right on the line, since my SNS colleague called me. Yesterday, I criticised the provision that lays down the conditions for the appointment of a director and only the condition concerning school preparation, because it is unusual when you make the text of the law to specify three or four conditions when one is sufficient. It's enough for you to have basic studies. I agree that it might be enough for you to have basic studies to be appointed director of a public enterprise. It's unclear technical, it's legally not clear and it's not quality from the point of view of writing legal text to make it a condition that someone can have higher education, i.e. to be a doctor of science, and master, and master of science, and to have basic studies. So it's enough to have basic studies for those public enterprises whose founder is the Republic, I understand that's what you're saying. So, I'm just asking the question how the Serbian Government's Legislative Service of the Republic of Serbia has accepted that without any objections to such a formulation. As for the stimulation that I was talking about yesterday, I believe that the fact that the government is deciding on stimulation, that is, the addition to the compensation paid by the Director of the Public Enterprise, is not enough to guarantee even though it has achieved good results in the management of public enterprises, that it will be a professionalisation in the management of public enterprises. The fact that the director of a public enterprise depends, therefore, on its receipts depending on the government of the Republic of Serbia, in that they give or do not give it stimulation, reduces its professional approach to the government. It's my belief, and you can disagree.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6450	Thank you. MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6451	Your Honor, the injury of course does not apply to you, but it is your duty, or whoever is in charge, to draw the MP's attention when he tells the lie. It's hypocritical when it comes to decommissioning...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6452	Please just say "member"?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6453	Article 107. Rules of Procedure. It is hypocritical to talk about the department when you choose a party official for the director of a public enterprise Thursday night, and Monday comes a law on the agenda that would not allow him to be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6454	This really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can do it as a replica, because you refer to the presentation of the previous speaker, not to the violation of the Rules of Procedure done by the chairman. So, I really couldn't allow it, and I won't allow it to be misused in this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6455	But dignity has been violated, and that's what I pointed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6456	All right, dignity, but don't mention the exposure of the previous speaker in such a context, because you are in fact making a replica of his exposure, not of a done breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President or the President of Parliament. I'm just distracting you so it wouldn't be the basis for a further sequence of replicas that I won't allow, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6457	I wanted to explain that when I tell the president or the chairman that he has to react, I have to explain what he has to react to, and certainly you have to let me do that when someone explains to the director of the Colubara who saved 150m euros in three years, and in doing so votes on his party bodies, for the man who destroyed his two public enterprises to take over the company. There's no department, it's hypocrisy. [[National Ambassador Zoran Babic, from the post, seeks a replica of the presentation of counterpart Natasa Vukkovic.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6458	Like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6459	I'm glad my colleague Vukkovic is here, because the replicas and the duels with her are always good because they've brought one improvement. I think we've agreed here, and I think fellow Vuckovic has now said that someone who's finished master's studies, doctoral, master's degree, of course must first finish his basic studies and that doesn't necessarily mean that someone who's a doctor of science or a master, can't be a director of a public firm, so thank you for accepting my suggestion. As for stimulation, we can't get along again. The government doesn't give stimulation, it doesn't give because of the good eyes of the director or something that's trivial. It only gives and only if positive business results are obtained. It's the basis of everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6460	Mrs. Vuchkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6461	I don't think you're going to understand what I'm saying, with these provisions, I've mentioned this provision as an example that you're actually reading this law and you want to say that it's going to increase the level of expertise and professionalization of the management of public enterprises. So it's unnecessary to say that someone can be a doctor of science or a master or a master to manage public enterprises, if they can have basic studies completed, that's quite enough, there's no need to have this many texts in this provision, because that's understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6462	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6463	At the end of this debate on the set of laws, I must express my satisfaction as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, because we have seen that there have been not many objections to these laws, even some have been supported and it has been said that they are a step forward and that they are good by the largest number of MPs such as amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act. As for the Law on Public Enterprises, I would like to repeat some more of the things that have been said here, but also to explain some of the things that have been said in the last three days. First, to go after what's been going on these days, will those public companies in the field of information be hit by this law? Yes, they will, of course they will, because they're still registered as a society in APR public enterprises. Who's to blame? It's a congested condition. This is the condition found by the SNS in power. You know, we all know that if we want to be part of the EU, local, public enterprises, say television owned by local administrations, it can't be, but "Studio B" is still a day today and it's known who has insisted for years that "Studio B" remains the property of Belgrade City. Thank God, these days we will get, I am convinced, and the start date of negotiations with the EU and then we will have to, like all other Member States in the region, do what they did. There is no more public enterprise in Montenegro whose founder is local self-government, this is the situation in Croatia, as well as Bosnia. Those who criticise and say it should know that these days the DS in Smederev is negotiating with the mayor, who, by the way, is being tried for taking bribes and abuse of official office, which is the act of corruption. About who's going to have a director at the public company "TV Smederevo", and who's the editor-in-chief, be careful, both the editor-in-chief and the editor-in-chief, and then we listen to the remarks. Call your city board there and tell them to stop doing that. Let's see what impact the new leadership has, let's get the new president of the DS to call a privatisation tender "Study B," and then let's talk about it. During that time, "Red Fireman" Slobodan Milosevic, a synonym in the 1990s, does not have any TV owned by the town of Pogorjevac, but are private and the SPS continues to win the election. They don't mind that they don't own TV in that town. So, gentlemen, someone else has been a problem in this country for years. We in the SNS advocate that it is all in line with European standards, i.e. to be urgently privatised. It's the same case, let's remember the Public Service, what changed, who's the director, and who's the editor-in-chief? Whose deal was that? They haven't changed since 2004. Who made the deal? Kostunica and Labus as Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, who will put the director, and who will be the editor-in-chief, why haven't you gentlemen changed those who are for the EU so far? Now it's going to change all that. This is a department, this is a big step forward. It's pointless to say that someone, because he's a party member, and he's elected director after the competition of a public enterprise, that the act itself does not make a department. No, the department's the way to choose. The way the election takes away the right of political parties to choose the directors of public enterprises. It is precisely prescribed that a competition commission be chosen, it is precisely prescribed how directors are elected and what conditions should be met and how the supervisory board is elected. What could possibly be a flaw? We said, which isn't applied, right now for everything and if we're responsible, we accept that responsibility. It applies to all those who are in V.D. the status or which the term of office has expired, and to all those who have not expired the term of office, they shall be struck by the law as soon as their term of office expires. I guess the lawyers know about it, they talk a lot, whether we should go back or not. Personally, I think we should have discussed the competitions under this law for all 700 right now, but that didn't happen. A major step forward is relative to the situation found, as four months ago, the director of "Serb Railways" and the director of "Colubare" sat in the same assembly four months ago and not just as party officials. I need to say again what our people say, we don't all have memories of a chicken between two feedings. So that's where you're sitting, that's where you're sitting, that's where you're sitting, that's where you're sitting, that's where you're sitting, that's where you're now not the directors, that's where you sit. As far as "The Railway" is concerned, he is still the director, still sitting, but thank you, colleagues Markicevic. So this is a departmental because of the way the director is elected and how this law predicts and is a departmentalization of whatever anyone is saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6464	Mr. Shormaz, at this point, time has passed for the SNS parliamentary group, I will give you another sentence, but to be very brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6465	What is most important is to introduce professionalization in corporate governance and what is very important, a member of the 62nd Law – the public in the work. We will all be able to see how these directors work, and then by Articles 38 and 39, this law provides for the possibility of their resolution, and if they do not work well, and if they do harm, from a billion euros per year, as has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6466	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word is Mrs Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6467	Thank you, Mr. President, here I am calling on the members of 106th and 107th of this Rules of Procedure, first of all because the previous speaker did not stick to the subject, so the agenda, and that is Article 106. You didn't warn him and you didn't bring him back on the agenda. Secondly, I also refer to article 107, which is the dignity of the Assembly. You know what, today we are discussing among other things and a set of laws concerning public enterprises, etc., obviously that the previous speaker has been given a certain task to deal with the media sector. He's attacking the directors of certain media outlets, it's a very dangerous thing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that every time the media is mentioned, that you pay particular attention to it, listen to what is said about the media and make sure that certain freedoms in the work of the media are ensured, whether written or otherwise. You know what? It is very important to take particular account of the fact that the proposal for a law on public enterprises also covers a sector regarding information, even the OSCE has responded to this fact, that it is simply not allowed for public undertakings to deal with, among other things, information. So, even Mr Dinkic allowed the possibility that one mistake was made and that amendments would respond to it. So we have really big problems here when it's being debated in this House in a dignified way about the agenda, and especially when it's about to make a certain threat, today, and in fact, it's about the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6468	I absolutely disagree with you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. The previous speaker spoke about the subject and everything I heard, it was about the departmentation, or the Law that touches the matter on the agenda today. At no time have I heard that anyone in the National Assembly has been threatened, nor do we, of course, support it. Anyone who thinks that a crime has been committed in any way, I call upon them to file an appropriate report to the competent state authorities, not to hesitate. Don't make it just a matter of political will or your presentation in the Assembly. I ask you to take the next step, if you feel that someone has not done something by law, to report to the competent state authorities, because I believe it would be your contribution to the democratisation of our society. Replica, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6469	I really have to. I don't need a replica. I don't need a 27. Rules of Procedure, how it's run. Thank you, you have protected Parliament in this way, and Article 107 has been misused because this was a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't attack any of the directors for a moment. I was also talking about how the directors of public enterprises are now elected, as foreseen by the new law when we adopt it, and I also said what we should do. I know the LDP agrees with that in those days when we get the opportunity to be even closer to the EU, which I know we want you and we both. Your amendments are commended and will be adopted, and we will vote for a large number of your amendments, so I don't know why, personally, I'm sorry, that we won't vote for another one anymore, and I said that in the debate. I don't even know why you, I don't get it at all, so I didn't mention any of the directors, I talked about ownership, and I talked about it, I didn't attack any media, I'm an experienced MP, I know what I'm saying. I've been talking about how they're being chosen today, and I've also given you an example of the poor choice of directors in a local media that hasn't been privatized yet. Privatisation, and that I will say, has stopped, then the mayor of Smedereva, member of DS, Predrag Umicevic, and there has been a privatisation for it. I'm just always talking about examples. We are in favour of the absence of media, the founders of local self-government. Just one public service, everything else private. We need to know the property of the media, that's what I've been talking about, and we're going to do it, unlike everyone else and everyone who's been in power so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6470	You, Mr. Vesenovic, have been reported earlier as an authorised representative based on the agenda, do you now want to use your law regarding replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6471	Yes, I want to use the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6473	I want to use the right to reply, because I'd like to explain one thing about the media. Namely, here is one half-truth or false, which also refers to Studio B. Namely, Studio B is in a different position than other media. It is, in fact, the establishment of it, as some kind of public service, provided for by the Capital Act. The law on the capital was passed at the time of the government's term of office of Vojislav Kostunica. I don't see anyone suggesting that this law change. In that sense, these remarks, concerning the necessity of leaving the state and local self-government of media ownership, do not refer to RTS, RTTV and media as the founder of the city of Belgrade as the capital. Whether it's good or not, we can talk about it, but this is one specific person, which I wanted to point to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6474	Mr. Djuric, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6475	Replica, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6476	Who mentioned you? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6477	Dragan Shormaz mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6479	I'm not going to go into whether you warned Mr. Shormaz, or whether Mr. Shormaz, that I wasn't speaking personally, mentioned in the positive or negative context of the LDP, but you made a few mistakes when you interpreted what the LDP was talking about. I'm glad you're voting for some amendments, there's plenty of room for the law to be corrected by voting and for the other amendments that the LDP has submitted. For example, one that defines that all elections, all directors of public enterprises, have to be called by 31 March 2013, the amendment, as I understand it, will not be accepted. There was an open one key question here, sort of yesterday afternoon, not getting an answer, you updated it in your debate, it's a public service issue, primarily RTTV and RTS. By this moment, we have not yet received a clear answer to the question of whether anyone in the ruling coalition has the ambition to apply the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises to RTS, or RTS. This would be a much more dangerous precedent than the one that says Article 2 mentions public information and that it will cover the situation of those public enterprises, whose founder is RS. You have to understand that there is a completely different situation for the public company Tanjug or public broadcasting companies, where they exist, where the founders of the local self-government unit are, from what the public service of RTS, RTS, is in. We've been going through the situation once that the director of RTS is elected under the Company Act, not by the Radio Diffusion Act, which regulates the position of public service. We wouldn't want to get back into this situation. The answer to that question is very simple, the RTS will continue to be subject to the Radio-Difusion Act, or the provisions of this Law on Public Enterprises will apply to RTS. That's the answer we need to get either from the ruling majority, or from the government's authorised representative. Mrs. Kalanovic didn't answer that question yesterday, there you are, Mr. Obradovic, an opportunity to remove the dilemma eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6480	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, are you answering your question? No, I don't. ) The word has Janko Veselinović, you are entitled to one minute after you have been reported earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6481	Thank you. The Democratic Party cannot support most of these laws, above all the Law on Public Enterprises, because this is not about any department. On the contrary, it is the cementing of the situation found, the fact that, over the next four years, elected directors, from the existing authorities, will remain in those places, that new executive committees, which may have up to seven members, will practically replace all the savings that will take place by abolishing the current supervisory committees, these people are received indefinitely. The fact that functions are frozen for law and the legal system means nothing, since the institution is nowhere to be explained. I think this is just one blur we were talking about yesterday, that this is one act of voter will, or promises made in the election cycle, because this means absolute politicisation and public sector division, not just public enterprises. We started with the National Bank, and I mentioned the fact that the governor of that National Bank is sitting on the SNS board. Once again, I would like to ask the question, if possible, of the minister present here – who in the ruling coalition is against the department, as Mr Dinkic said yesterday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6482	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in points. From the 5th to the 12th agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6483	Article 107. First, Mr. Dinkic wasn't at the session yesterday. Secondly, the URS made it clear that they wanted Serbia's citizens to get a good, efficient, quality and cheap service, and not that it would happen to us, for example, as it did in Novi Sad, that 300 party people are employed in public companies before the change of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6484	We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on copyright and related rights. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Professor Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, I have also called on the members to attend: Ivica Kotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, Zoran Tubić, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Nevenka Novaković, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Science and Technological Development and Zorka Gulasnavod. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you have received a detailed report in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Zarko Obradovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6485	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will abuse the start of the presentation on this agenda in order to answer the question of my colleague Veseinovic, related to the previous law, i.e. the law that the Assembly has discussed so far, as well as the law. It was unanimously adopted at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia by all members of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It speaks enough of whether there are different opinions or not compared to the content of the law. Of course, the same applies to this law. I am saying this because I have to say it, because some MPs are questioning it. The draft law discussed today by the Assembly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is the result of an effort to bring this area more into line with the economic opportunities of users, to simplify the payment of fees, to regulate the negotiation process in the determination of tariffs and to ensure that additional offices relate between these collective organisations, and to preserve the degree of protection of copyright and related rights and preserve the character of compensation as fair, which is imposed by national and European standards. The proposal respects the experience in regulating this matter in countries in the environment, but it has in mind the economic criteria that are relevant to our economic situation. Negotiators, collective implementation organisations of copyright and related rights and users who are obliged to pay compensation for public reporting of musical works, interpretations and phonograms, have sufficiently concrete and clear criteria to handle in the negotiations on the level of compensation. In the event that no agreement is reached, the authority to intervene, under the draft law, is the Institute for Intellectual Property of the Republic of Serbia, which determines the fee, taking into account the proposals made by both sides in the process of failed negotiations. I note, in recent days, we have also had talks with representatives of the European Commission. I expect that by the beginning of the debate in particular, by tomorrow, the final position on certain amendments and additions will come from them, given that we have also discussed a number of different issues from the content of this law. On behalf of the promoter, I express my willingness, if these suggestions are on their side, to make certain suggestions and adopt through amendments to the Committee of Resolution. Otherwise, the basic characteristics of the bill that is before you today are the following. Under one, to amend, or supplement those provisions of the applicable law which do not provide reliable criteria for determining the level of compensation for public reporting of musical works, interpretations and phonograms. The catering facilities will pay a music dinar, i.e. a fee depending on the area of the facility and the geographical position. You'll agree, it can't be the same music tariff for cities that have completely different economical parameters, population numbers, average receipts and other relevant data. Namely, it cannot be evaluated in the same way and treated as a catering facility in Lebanon or here in Belgrade. The development of the region or the city within the region is taken into account. Two, in order to ensure, to a greater extent, the respect of the interests of the users, i.e. that their categorisation is carried out, taking into account criteria which are of direct impact on their economic potential, as well as those which indicate a greater impact on their excessive performance. The line also proposes the exemption of the craftsman from the payment cycle. Otherwise, if this were not a lonely case, it shows the example of Spain, the EU countries, with the European Commission suggesting that maybe this solution should be limited to four to five years. Under three, to achieve negotiations and agreements between stakeholders as a priority way of determining a tariff containing a fair fee. If such an agreement is not reached, we have suggested that the role of the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights be taken over by the Institute for Intellectual Property, whose decision cannot be unsettled, and therefore cannot be drastically unfavourable for the payment of the music dinar. Unlike the acts taken by the Copyright and Related Rights Commission, the Institute will have to make decisions within the time limit provided for by the law. They have to be explained. Of course, they will be able to be rebutted, challenged, and in the administrative procedure of the lawsuit. It is explicitly established that the provisions of the general administrative procedure apply to the procedure for granting tariff consent. The Institute of Intellectual Property is as a special organisation, in addition to monitoring the work of organisations in efforts to reach an agreement, supported an impartial status and favoured professional criteria. By taking over the new role of the Institute, there is also an additional mechanism in which both sides, and those who pay and those who do not pay so-called. a musical dinar, having the space to reach and implement an agreement, established tariffs, providing adequate protection of copyright and related rights, so that the determined fees are both fair and in proportion to the objective environmental capabilities of the users. I stress that all three organisations, as a representative association of users, have expressed their agreement with the solution that the Commission's affairs would be taken over by the Intellectual Property Office. The proposed law stipulates that the Government will adopt an act establishing the list of devices to which a special fee is paid, and the criterion for determining the level of the special fee paid by IT companies, importers of equipment, is that the amount of the special fee charged on each sold or imported device on the list of Governments cannot be higher than 1% of its value. Under five, the basic measure of determining the fee for public reporting of music works, interpretations, phonograms is that its height is bound to minimal earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and that when determining the square in commercial rooms, account is solely for the space used for receiving guests, consumers of service providers. So you don't count the extra so-called. auxiliary rooms for staff of storage and sanitary space users. I must say, in relation to the provision of this article, 170th of this bill, we had two objections. These were objections and proposals for the criteria for determining fair compensation to be an average rather than a minimum profit in the Republic of Serbia. It is estimated that the draft law includes a criterion that is more statistically reliable, economically appropriate, given the regional deviation from the level of earnings. This is a criterion that, according to the Labour Act, determines the cost of living, the movement of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, the existential and social needs of employees and their families, the unemployment rate, the movement of labour market employment and the general level of economic development in the Republic of Serbia. We estimate that this is appropriate in relation to holders of copyright and related rights, as well as for economic operators who pay compensation. Also when considering the possibility of an extended profit being the criterion by which payment is made, the problem of taking average earnings in December towards the relevant month arises. It is not unknown that in previous years, from 2000 to 2011 we had an average profit of about 30% higher than the average profit on an annual basis. It's about paying off bonuses and other stimulations in December. In view of such oscillation, we find the average profit as a criterion unacceptable. The second remark was to point out that the criteria for setting tariffs for public reporting of music works, interpretations and phonograms were formulated from this article in a way that favoured users, whose commercial business premises are more than 300 square meters, with discotheques and several thousand squares mentioned. We agree that if such a proposal arrived by the European Commission or one of the MPs, to change this position and to adopt a new solution through the amendment of the Committee, where each additional 100 metres of square meters would be increased by one tenth, instead of one-tenth of the projected minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, without taxes and contributions. Under six, the bill provides that compensation for the public announcement of music works, interpretations and phonograms shall be charged by only one organisation exercising the rights of the authors of music works after the announcement of music works, and the funds collected shall be allocated in accordance with an agreement that exists in an organisation which exercises the rights of the authors of music works to compensation for public reporting and an organisation which exercises the right of the interpreter and the rights of the phonogram producer to compensation for the public statement of interpretation and phonograms. Through one payment, users will settle their obligations against all three collective organisations representing the entire domestic and foreign music repertoire in Serbia's territory. On the other hand, the collective organisation will have fewer costs in collecting compensation, and thus the collection fund will be higher. In order to control the allocation of fees, provisions have also been proposed for collective organisations to form a common collection agreement, which will make sure that the collection is done in a planned manner, agreements that have been reached by the organisations. The proposer believes that the formation of a council by the other two organisations will achieve control of the work of an organisation that collects compensation and will thus ensure that the compensation is collected in the interest of rightholders representing all three organisations. I have to say that in relation to the provisions that are foreseen, the introduction of a unified bill instead of the two so far being one payment card, that we got two kinds of remarks. One stressed that copyright on the one hand has a particular fundamentally different legal nature, and that international regulations do not allow a single fee to be established in relation to the copyright fee. We have indicated that it is a collection mechanism that simplifies payment from the user's point of view, and that it is not in any way question the nature of copyright and related rights. The second remark related to the circumstance that the law regulated participation in collecting a fee of 50% for the oldest and 25% for the other two organisations. That should have been left to the organizations themselves. On our part, the talks show that such a proportion already exists in practice and that all three organisations agree that it is a matter of the distribution of compensation. The complaint made by collective organisations suggests that the oldest organisation could abuse the position of the payer, both in the tariff agreement process and through a payment agreement. The proposer agrees that any amendment to the resolution committee could introduce additional security mechanisms, which would make the distribution of so-called "unfavourable" impossible until the agreement is reached. in the event of the failure of the agreement, the oldest organisation may not distribute the collected fee to its members. Furthermore, it is envisaged to establish a management of the programme's electronic broadcasting database. The broadcasters of radio-television programmes are required to keep an electronic record of the broadcasting and re-emission of musical works, while the monitoring of the management and electronic records is run by the Republic Radio-Difuge Agency, and the Government will prescribe the way it is managed by a special act. The obligations of broadcasters are to provide collective organisations with data on the surveillance of subjects of protection, frequency and extensive exploitation of copyright, prescribed by the applicable law. It is the obligation of the broadcaster to supply the data necessary to organisations to make the proper distribution of the collected fees. Without this information, so-called. The shirt has no fair distribution. In practice, however, all broadcasters do not supply the requested data or so on. shirts as popularly called and many deliver incomplete data or messy shirts, and only a small number of emitters deliver all this in electronic form. By prescribing mandatory delivery of the necessary data to broadcast and re-transmitted works, in electronic form, which, by prescribing the way in which the records are kept, will contribute to the fair distribution of the collected fees and greatly increase transparency of the work of collective organisations. It will be easy to verify whether the distribution has been made according to the established rules. Each author will have the right and opportunity to see into electronic records how many times his work has been broadcast and in which media. The need to ensure transparency of the work of collective organisations has also been highlighted by the European Commission as one of the most significant conditions that the collective organisation should meet. Dear fellow MPs, as you know, the amendment and addition of this law was in the process at the beginning of the year. Although withdrawn, the effect was reached that, in the meantime, organisations and users had improved the arrangements, that there was an exemption from paying fees even up to 75% less than the applicable tariff. A higher level of awareness has been achieved about the need to establish such fair fees that will be in agreement with the economic power of the user. The bill that you have before you in large part only determines and the results you have already achieved and will no doubt pass significantly into the area. In order to establish compensation mechanisms, all participants interested in the determination and uniform payment of tariff fees, whose heights will be in line with the economic opportunities of the users and with full respect for the interests of the holder of copyright and related rights, have been provided as soon as possible. It is necessary to pass the law by emergency procedure. The government believes that not to pass an emergency law could produce adverse consequences for the work of all the authorities and organisations to which this law applies. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, if there is any need to ask questions, I will also inform you in detail about the content of the talks we had with the European Commission and other issues related to the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6486	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6487	Dear Parliament Speaker, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights are from the field. The pre-election promise of the G17 plus has crossed into the field of the Serbian Parliament's parliament. Although the formal proposer of these amendments and additions to the Ministry of Education, and there we have a resolute minister, Mr Obradovic, it is clear that it served the ministry only as a flow water heater for Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in order to make his ideas come true, i.e. to implement his pre-election promises. To be clear, the SPO and DHSS MPs don't protect anyone, especially the payment of the music dinar. But the question arises -- could there not have been a compromise between the Structural Associations and the Ministry of Education, but the negotiations, and we all know that, with this professional association, were led by the finance minister. We know that in the previous period he also exercised copyright based on folk singer songs and fun music. I wonder why during that period, while he was exercising those rights, while he was in coalition with other political parties, he didn't make these changes? Now it's clear to all of us that the purpose is just to fulfill the pre-election promises. At a meeting with associations, he received assurances and all, or almost most MPs, I will tell the SPO and the DHSS, the whole parliamentary club, but most MPs in this parliament also knows, as he knows, that the professional association will appeal to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law and to him it is clear to all the people who are now in the executive power that this dispute will be resolved by the Constitutional Court to assess this law unconstitutional. I wonder why we are raping parliament, which is why we are introducing amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights to Parliament in the debate, later for adoption, when again in two or three years, when the Constitutional Court makes a decision, we will have to deal with this issue and expose the citizens of Serbia to new costs, new peripetias? We know that the response of European organisations, since this law does not comply with the standards of these organisations and with the international agreements reached, will remind Serbia and will meet again in the situation we were in when we warned that both the NBS law, amendments and additions to the law, will also be found before parliament. That's when we warned, and G17 plus has experience with the Information Act. I'm telling you, in two to three years' time, we're going to have to adopt this law in parliament, or new amendments and additions to the law. I wonder why there was no more transparent public debate, which is why the ministers, the government's bodies, did not participate in agreements on this law? The suspicion that this is only the fulfillment of the pre-election promise is backed by the fact, on several occasions I spoke to Minister Obradovic and he has a good intention and we have agreed to these amendments to the law, which have been proposed by professional associations, and in this case, the Co-ordination Committee of Artistic Associations of Serbia has also handed over Veroljub Arsic from SNS and Mr Babic from SNS and I have assurances and I want to believe that Minister Obradovic, along with his colleagues from the SNS, will support this constructive proposal. I delivered them a letter from the professional association, therefore, to the Co-ordination Committee of the Artistic Associations of Serbia, in which they ask us to present these arguments on the Committee on Culture, in this case, as they are drama artists, or on the Committee on Education. We in Serbia do not have different universities for film and theatre actors, but everyone works on all the media. So we have a situation that a large number of actors play in musicals and that these musicals are broadcast and re-transmissioned through television. Today, opera shows are recorded on video, not just as a tone record on a sound carrier, and as such are also broadcast and re-emissioned on television. Music artists no longer use a phonogram like before, but their interpretations are recorded on video. So these are music videos. That is why we believe it is necessary to amend Article 117 of the Law, because there has been technological progress in the way of recording and broadcasting, but also more sophisticated demands of theatre. That would avoid the chaos of law enforcement and equate the rights of artists. Nonsens, for example. that ballet artists have the right to compensation unlike actors without having any participation in the creation of phonograms. Who would have thought that this was not in line with EU standards, would not have been the administration, because this is the attitude I put forward in the previous presentation, i.e. in a letter from the Co-ordination Committee of Artistic Associations of Serbia that has adopted several EU countries and does not conflict with European legislation, unlike the proposed amendments to the laws on the agenda today, which would have been cut or any comparative legal analysis between this law and the same laws in the EU countries showed that these amendments to the laws are disastrous. Also, I am no longer a member of the Association of Librarians of Serbia, but I have an obligation to protect this association, as well as other professional associations, a letter came to my colleague Vesni Milekic, from Rasim's party, which also supports these amendments and additions of the law, in which they also require the exercise of their copyrights. And they have objections to the text of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. I ask you, we are in today's session, where we are only talking about amendments and amendments to the Law on Copyright, which are the subject of the pre-election promise of one political party, and all other professional associations that have objections to the text of the law, that is, Article 117 or the objections of the Association of Writers of Serbia cannot be found in solving their problems at today's parliament session for the reason that these amendments and amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today are not foreseen to amend these members. It's clear to all of us, I have to repeat it several times, it's just a pre-election promise, not a concern of professional associations, copyright and artist rights. There is a good will to resolve this issue, but if it exists, then I would ask – why are all citizens of Serbia, entrepreneurs, not absolutely free from paying the music dinar? I'll explain why. We in the squares now, escrows call it the gigs, abroad, we have the performances of these escrow stars, which earn huge money, by several tens of thousands of euros, which are not taxed. Therefore, no single dinar is being poured into Serbia's budget of their work and their income. If we were to tax them and what was taxed into Serbia's budget, and used for the purpose of paying their copyright, we would have the means not to discriminate against the citizens of Serbia, as proposed by this law, so that one would pay a higher fee, and another less compensation, we would already be able to free them from paying the music dinar, and that is the right social measure. We, in this law, rather than settle this country's legal and legal acts, do another injustice. We deny those rights guaranteed to authors in all EU countries at the heart of not being ready to introduce a real normal brand of taxation of all economic operators in this country. I'm sorry, I think these estranged artists who master and media space, which we've been funding lately, are obliged to pay this country taxes. So we must not fall into the trap that, by releasing them from one burden that is something in every country that is normal, something that is a duty, to release them from that burden, we are taking away some other rights, which, by the law of all European standards and by all legal norms, they deserve. I will no longer waste the time of this distinguished home. I will leave time to discuss at the end what I think is extremely important issues and I want consultations with Minister Obradovic. If you don't mind, colleagues from the DS, a little attention? Please, Mr. President, warn your DS colleagues. I hope Minister Zarko Obradovic, that representatives of the SNS, as the centre of the ruling coalition, will take into account the validity and urgency of these proposals. I already have an agreement with party representatives Rasim Ljajic, and that we will carry out consultations, that we will invite people from professional associations and that in this way we will best be able to solve a problem that has long been, in a way that is not acceptable, given that these are the most vulnerable social categories and that it should not be so, burdens writers, actors and all those who create a truly beautiful cultural picture of Serbia. I will just say that the law is against EU and World Trade Organisation regulations. These are very strong arguments that we may have a public debate, to invite people from professional associations, representatives of professional associations, and to solve this problem in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6488	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6489	I thank you, fellow Yugoslav. I am speaking to you, thank you for what you said. I want to tell you, for the sake of your knowledge and for the sake of the public, that this proposal to amend and supplement the law adopted unanimously by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is true that, during the election campaign, colleagues from the URS spoke of this issue as important to them and to the citizens. That's right. It is also true that this issue not only formally, but also essentially belongs to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and that together, representatives of the Ministry of Science and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, given that a significant part of these amendments and additions to the Law have a financial component, so it was important to calculate what this means financially for citizens, i.e. those that will be covered by amendments and additions to this law, that we worked together, that they were representatives of organisations, that they were representatives and the Institute of Intellectual Property and that they were representatives of the European Commission. That's right. But we have a kind of problem here, so to speak. Some of the questions you mentioned do not refer to the content of this law on amendments and additions to the law and then, for formal and legal reasons, cannot even be subject to amendments. I told you, if you apply for an extraordinary cabinet session, we'll absolutely consider it in the government, after all, we'll talk and try to find a solution to that question. I did not hide from you the fact that we discussed the content of this law with the European Commission and that several suggestions for amending the law were put on their side. I already mentioned what we agreed. They took the right to consider the contents of this law and to deliver to us their final position that we expect during today, no later than tomorrow. I told you that the exemption of craftsmen at first seemed strange, but then we saw that such a solution exists in Spain and that it was not an exception to a legal solution in EU countries. In any case, the government does not want to pass a law that would be contrary, to say, to the solutions that exist in the EU, let alone which would disagree with our legal system. Therefore, the issue of consent, or, possibly, the dispute before the Constitutional Court, will be left to whoever is most competent, which is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We will be very happy to discuss your proposal and try to find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6490	Thank you. Mr. Jugovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6491	I would like to thank Minister Obradovic for the correct approach to solving this problem. I hope, from those talks that I had with SNS representatives and Minister Obradovic, that very quickly in the assembly procedure, new amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in which we would solve the area, solve what is unresolved in the field of real artists, I repeat once again, actors, writers and others, who really do everything to make the cultural picture of Serbia the best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6492	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6493	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning, let me say that the JS parliamentary group will support the principle of amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Why? Because we believe, not by entering into who is an idea creator to come to this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, that the proposal came from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as such entered into the assembly procedure and today lies before us Members of the People's Parliaments. This earlier law, whose amendments and additions we are considering today, has caused a lot of misunderstandings in its application, I would say, and a lot of resentment among some of the obligors who have made a commitment to pay certain financial fees to performers, or authors of certain music works, interpretations and phonograms, although they hardly make ends meet in their business activities. We particularly welcome, as a representative group of JS, the government's quest to unite this compensation with Article 3 through an organisation. It is known that so far there have been several organizations and associations that have dealt with various fees. Not to be deliberately understood, but many who were involved in working relationships in these associations and organisations had monthly incomes per month rather than on an annual level of earnings by certain bonds, by paying compensation for copyright and related rights. It is also particularly good that the government has seen that the obligation to pay compensation for copyrights for various interpretations, for various performances of music works etc., does not all pay equally but, given the categorization of the object where these works are performed, because it is not the same if there is someone, I take as an example and I make one trip in discussion, it is not the same if someone has a catering facility in a village that has 300 inhabitants and that facility has 50 squares and if such a catering facility is located on the Terrace or on King Alexander Street with the same square. Are traffic and profits the same? No, they're not. Therefore, both implementation and copyright fees cannot be the same. The government took a good look at that. She had good hearing to feel what came from the people, by those who chose us here to sit here and represent their interests and protect their interests, and we through the government, to give the government the task of getting it into the law, and that's right before us today. It is also good that minimum earnings were taken as a basis in the Republic of Serbia. Not to quote and not to take time, Article 171, but I think it's done in a good way. The Single Serbia parliamentary group welcomes the government's proposal to exempt workers from paying the fee. Please, honourable MPs, whether a blacksmith, a horseshoe, a shoe shop in a part of Serbia, in a small village, should pay compensation for having a radio involved, and he may not hear it from the noise in his object. Those who advocate the protection of authors, or performers of certain music works, etc. Let them ask themselves whether such people, such craftsmen, such owners of these objects, should be burdened with a measure of compensation. My people, they don't make a month's worth of eating, and they pay their dues, they contribute to health, disability, pension insurance. What's left to live for? Then someone from some organization doesn't want me to mention any, and they're asking for compensation, so they're still threatening him with criminal charges and other charges. That's how it used to happen. That's why we from the Single Serbia parliamentary group warmly support this proposal and I say - we will vote for it. Let's not before we've seen the water, and let's get ready to swim, say that some higher authority, some higher judicial authority in this country, will assess this law as unconstitutional, or that it does not comply with the constitutional and legal principles of this country. Let's wait for this law to apply, see what the consequences will be, see what the reactions will be. After all, let's see who we as ambassadors protect more. Are we protecting the minority or protecting the majority? If we're protecting certain, I have nothing against them, this MP group has nothing against them, for itself to protect the author's and any other rights of the author of all works, but let's protect one vast majority of the users of these works, these interpretations of music, etc. We must therefore understand that this law is the result of a great application, or a great dissatisfaction that has caused the existing law in many areas, especially in the undeveloped and less developed environments of this country. With that in mind, having heard of it, this government came before this assembly with a proposal for this law. I would not enter any particular discussion, or specifically quote some of the other provisions of this law, but I repeat that we are MPs and we must hear and listen to what most of this people think. They think that these fees should be abolished in many ways, and in some things they should be reduced and applied as the Government has suggested. Let me guess one more time. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the amendment and addition of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6494	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Milekić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6495	Dear Chairman, esteemed ministers, fellow MPs, I speak on behalf of the SDPS. I know that counterpart Jugovic had no evil intentions when he said Rasim's party. Just as I'm sure he wouldn't be offended if I said he was coming from the Wolf's Party. Isn't that right, fellow Yugoslav? It is very difficult at this point in our country to speak in general about culture, about art, and about copyright. In a situation where all of us are reluctant to support a budget in which 0.5% is set for culture, which is precisely the most relevant of these authors to which this law applies. We all live in a country where all people struggle daily for mere existence, when the greatest success is if you succeed in getting a job like that, when more than 300,000 young, educated people have gone out of the country in recent years, and in all of Serbia there are below 6% of higher education. In a joke, one colleague said that those highly educated could start a political party because they must be crossing the censorship, unfortunately minority. We who do some cultural activities have nothing left to do but laminate over our fate, but at least we can try to work on some of our basic copyrights. The Law on Copyright and Related Rights was passed in 2009 and, according to experts, especially the Institute for Intellectual Property, is quite good. In fact, the European Commission has come to the conclusion that this law is exactly one of the best that has been brought to us. Although, frankly speaking, there are several good laws with us that are not in practice and that are not applied as it should be. Of course, every law has to be improved occasionally, and so is this copyright and related law in 2011. It in itself regulates the content, achievement and protection of copyright and related rights in the fields of literary, scientific, professional and artistic works. Copyright and related rights are of paramount importance to all human creation. These rights give authors incentives in the form of recognition and cash compensation and confidence that their works will be protected from unauthorized copying and piracy, and the holder of this right is the author. By law and by the very nature of his dealings, the author enjoys moral and property rights regarding his copyright. Moral copyrights guarantee the author that he will remain the author of the authorship forever no matter how much and how much it will be used over time. Moral copyrights last for life and are completely intolerable. Unlike moral copyrights, property copyrights are transferable, so the owner of property rights can also be changed. The first owner is always the author, but he can give up his rights, transfer them to someone else, a third person by selling or free of charge, or a gift. In that case, ownership of property copyright is acquired by someone else. Also, after the author's death, property rights owners become his heirs. It was therefore important that all issues related to the exercise of copyright should be precisely defined in order not to undermine the personal integrity of the author, by regulating the way in which the works are transferred, published and published in order for the copyright to be made available to the general public, to all citizens for education, technical and technological progress and to meet their cultural and artistic needs. Unfortunately, in practice, we do not have enough developed mechanisms to fully protect authors and their actions against unlawful use, abuse and theft. The revolution, for example, is that we are among the few countries that have managed to put theatre directors into authors. We also know that they find it very difficult to protect their actions from copying and copying, and I won't even talk about charging. It's on the level of the incident. Librarians may be in an even more difficult position, because with our limited market, a small number of writers and interested readers, as well as a large abuse by photocopying literary and scientific works, there are hardly any writers who can live from their work. The situation is similar, unfortunately, in other professions and with other authors. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights submitted by the Government shall be intervened in a small number of members of this Act with a view to completing the provisions for which they have not been sufficiently clear in the application of the law. With regard to Article 39. In the law, the government found that the overly abstractly laid down rules for determining the level of special fees deprive the negotiators of clear criteria that would allow them to assess the level of special fees. Also, the criteria for other tariffs for the exercise of property rights are too general. New solutions have been proposed to specify these criteria for determining the specific fees paid by manufacturers and sellers of information and technical goods, i.e. citizens who buy or use such goods. Provisions have also been made to remove shortcomings in the conclusion of the contract referred to in Article 127. The law. Also, the paper is that the fee for public announcement of music, interpretation and phonograms is charged by only one organisation, defined by an agreement between these three organisations, as well as the means of distribution of the collected funds, which goes 50% on the rights of the author and 25% on the interpreter and phonogram manufacturer. The following is the following news that collectively exercising copyright and related rights organisations in Article 164, in addition to the bodies of the Assembly, the board of directors, directors and supervisory boards established so far, also provides for advice to control the collection and distribution of public communications fees, as one common body of the organisation of authors, interpreters and phonograms. In addition, new members of 171a and 171b, who are compensated for the public declaration of music works, interpreters and phonograms, are bound by minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and in the light of the bill's explanation, the amount of compensation is indicated in connection with the legal obligation to keep the tariffs in mind in the countries whose GDP is approximately the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the proposed amendments and additions are abolished by the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights, as set out in Articles 192 to 201 of the Law, so that all its powers so far are taken over by the Institute of Intellectual Property. This would in the shortest case be the fundamental changes submitted by the Government in this bill. The matter of this law is, you've heard, quite complicated and it's likely that what I'm talking about can be incomprehensible for a large number of our citizens who are listening to us right now. However, I must point out that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, including all amendments and additions that are in the direction of improving the text of this law, is of great importance to the authors themselves and especially their associations, but also to our country and citizens and all other peoples and states, because the works of the authors rests the overall progress of humanity and its spiritual upgrade. I'd like to conclude my presentation next. Any change in the applicable law removes some ambiguities, or rationalisation and savings must be supported because it is for the benefit of both professions and citizens. Also, there's something else I need to mention. In a conversation with several professional solutions regarding this bill, I will only list the Association of Drama Artists and the Association of Librarians, there are requests for some more amendments to the applicable Copyright Act. Given that their requests did not apply to the proposed amendments and additions of these members of the laws submitted by the Government, and I was not able to write any amendments, but I will therefore forward their proposals to all the competent ministries, including the Ministry of Culture, with a request that they be considered independently of this bill, for any subsequent amendments to the law. Also, ANEM, the Association of Independent Electronic Media, sent a letter to all the members of the Committee on Culture and Information, a letter saying that they had sent a letter in July this year with proposals to amend this law, which are regarding how to determine the tariff set out in Article 170 of the Law. As they say, they've been ignored. On this occasion, I ask the representatives of the competent ministries to consider these proposals, because we still have the opportunity to make amendments and draft laws through the competent assembly committee. I think you will all agree with the SDPS's views, that nothing can be more useful than the proposal of professional associations, which the law understands well and directly daily apply and benefit. Once again, I would like to stress that the SDPS parliamentary group will vote and support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6496	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6497	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, firstly I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that there is no respected agreement reached on the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, which is that all MPs are informed of the fact that our guests are on the Committee, representatives of relevant associations dealing with this topic, suggested that the law be withdrawn from the procedure and that we agreed that we would inform all Members. I'm sorry my colleague didn't respect that agreement. For us from the LDP and for me personally, this law is actually a paradigmal example of the government's work and the congregation's majority. He was proposed by an emergency procedure, and today we learn from Mr. Minister that he has conducted consultations with the European Commission after the letter he received from him and that he is ready to accept certain suggestions proposed in the letter. We don't really know what bill we're talking about, because we don't know what the definitive version of that law is going to be. I know it's scheduled for tomorrow or the day after tomorrow for the Committee to discuss in particular, but it seems to me that the whole process is actually wrong. He's wrong because he's done an emergency procedure. I think it is the very fact that it is an emergency procedure that violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I do not see how this law regulates the issues that have arisen in the context of circumstances that could not be foreseen, rather than the adoption of laws under emergency procedure, could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, without music I know that a person feels less healthy, but that is not so important, the safety of the country and the work of the authorities and organisations, as well as to comply with EU regulations. In order to confirm this necessity of compliance with EU documents and regulations, along with a proposal for amending the law, which has about 25 pages, we have all obtained material that has one non-transparent 320-page table, in which it is trying to show from members to members who agree and who are not in agreement with EU regulations. I must say that the three key remarks made by the EU are seen as compatible with these regulations, and obviously not. I just remind you, since we're talking about some kind and our responsibility, these 320 pages represent 80 sheets of A4, times 300 copies, as much as each document is printed, it's a total of 24,000 sheets. One of the smaller forests was spent to obtain material that we might have obtained in electronic form. I'm talking about this because I think it's part of a culture that we're actually talking about here in an indirect way. The second thing I have to notice is that, with all due respect to the Ministry of Education, etc., that I don't list everything now, there's a representative of the Ministry of Culture missing here. It is unthinkable to me that any aspect of copyright can be spoken of without the presence of the Ministry of Culture. Obviously, an emergency procedure was introduced, i.e. the law was introduced by an emergency procedure in order to fulfil the pre-election promise already mentioned, in order to legalise or legitimise the abolition of the music dinar, which was common to small and medium-sized enterprises, but at the same time to avoid public debate. In a conversation with those who deal with this topic, with four associations and international institutions, we have actually learned that the government has failed to carry out timely consultations with them, that these associations have reached all agreements between them that the existing law is working properly, that this agreement included the issue of dinars for small and medium-sized enterprises, of crafts actions, that they have agreed with the businessman, but that the way it is interpreted in this law is not in agreement with these agreements and that the whole thing is actually returning to some kind of a beginning. In their letter, four organisations write, among other things, that the text of the proposed amendments to the laws was first presented to the public after the bill entered into the assembly procedure. So there was no consultation. Unknown persons who participated in the drafting of this proposal, but from the very text of the proposal, it is clear that they are not professional because the proposed solutions are not in line with the other provisions of the law and the matter in question even with regard to certain terms used. The opinion of all interested organisations that the current law provides for absolutely clear parameters and charging mechanisms with full EU law that function without problems and in practice. According to the Government itself in the IPR Strategy, and they believe that such a proposal is not only illegal and unconstitutional, but also unnecessary and backward. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is completely contrary to international and European standards in the fields of copyright and related rights as well as economic and cultural policy in this area. We believe that with this initiative and the adoption of a law that is contrary to the spirit of the EU and our obligations towards the EU, it causes direct damage to the Republic of Serbia which wants to build a democratic space. We believe that the Republic of Serbia, which seeks to join the EU, must not only accept but also implement and defend all democratic principles, including the protection of copyright and related rights. Furthermore, this position of the SOKOJ means the Organisation of Music Authors of Serbia, the Organisation of phonogram Producers – OFPS, PI – The Organisation for collective exercise of the rights of interpreters, ANEM, the Association of Librarians is absolutely accurate, confirming the letter submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Deger, Mr. Francis Mur Representative of IFPI, means the International Discographic Industry, in which it requires clarification of the proposed amendments to the law. Thus, Mr Moore writes in his letter that these changes would force the rightholder to exercise their right to compensation through one organisation, domestic copyright organisations, and would prevent rightholders from identifying themselves as organisations that would entrust their rights contrary to the international and EU practices as well as the general principles of the EU directive, and then state which directive it is concerned with, and which letter may be forwarded to him. So it's directed to both the government and everyone else. So that's the first one. Secondly, I would impose a serious limitation on the level of compensation and the possibility of collecting compensation from individual economic operators by allowing the restriction and exemption from the obligation to pay compensation by undermining the rights of phonogram producers and other music rights holders provided by domestic and international law including the "Trips Agreement" which would compromise the accession negotiations of the World Trade Organisation. Under three, serious changes to the rules on special compensation would be introduced and unfairly limited the amount of compensation collected by rightholders to compensate for the multiplication of their works without permission for personal, non-commercial needs. Under four, these amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act are contrary to European standards and practices and would have negative consequences on the market. Please delay, at the very least, the examination of the amendments to the law and allow us to explain in detail the serious damage they would do to the republican industry as well as the risk that would affect Serbia's relations with the EU and the World Trade Organisation. I have to say that these are all well-intentioned remarks and that they have come across a good echo of organizations dealing with this topic precisely because they have shown a great understanding of the economic situation in the country and have reached an agreement that the music dinar should be abolished where it is no longer possible to charge. Mr. Moore, of course, also writes to Mr. Deger in a letter expressing deep concern about the proposed amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, where he says among other things – that the changes in question would significantly harm the rights of music makers in Serbia. I disagree with the gentleman that only those who use a product should be protected by those who create this product. Their right should be mentioned somewhere to be in some way a hindrance. In doing so, I repeat, there is the willingness of the authors to understand the situation, the economic situation in which we are, but to make that distribution of the music dinar fairer. Furthermore, Mr. Moore writes to Mr. Deger that he is seriously concerned about this initiative that would significantly affect the position of domestic and foreign phonogram manufacturers. This is not a law relating only to domestic producers, domestic performers, as well as other music associates in Serbia, we are particularly concerned about fundamental changes in the rules concerning collective exercise of rights. In fact, it would be denied the law the right to choose which organisation will be entrusted with the exercise of its rights. This approach is also contrary to the EU's foreign practice and practice, as outlined among other things in the EU's recommendation on the achievement of collective law in 2005. I will not read these two following quotations from Mr. Moore's letter which also speak about the opposite of these proposed solutions with European laws and standards. Of course, when someone gets a letter from such a significant organization as Mr. Deger, he reacts, so his letter also arrived here with his name – a request for clarification on the issue of intellectual property concerning copyright in which it is said - to request clarifications regarding a number of amendments that we believe the Serbian Government is considering regarding the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. First of all, this applies to Article 3. We want to know, in fact, this is said by the European Commission, whether it is proposed to place one point for collecting fees as well as for issuing licences and how convenient it is to publicly perform works or other items in question indicate that communication with the public within the meaning of Article 3. The Information Society Directive, such as public broadcasting and public relations in accordance with Article 8. A rental directive for producers and performers? We understand the proposed changes so that an authorial collection organisation will be entrusted to collect compensation for authors, performers and phonogram manufacturers. These collection organisations will then distribute compensation between different organisations representing authors, performers and phonogram producers in accordance with their agreement. However, in this case the structure will be imposed by law and it is possible to place phonogram performers and producers in a weaker position than the authors. The fact of the proposal would be to actually create a monopoly in terms of collecting fees. This request is a restriction on both freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services since the collection of fees will be reserved for only one organisation. This would be justified under normal conditions only because of important reasons in the public interest, conditions of necessity and proportionality. Given that our common interest is to ensure effective intellectual property proprises, we expect further contacts regarding the above mentioned problem. This time we ask you to take all the actions at your disposal to prevent the adoption of such a harmful proposal. Given that its adoption would deprive a large group of citizens of the rights they belong to and are necessary for the further development of society and for the continuation of reforms as if its adoption would violate EU standards. As far as I know, this issue has been discussed on the Committee on European Integration and the debate has shown that we do not really know what the definitive proposal for this law is that we are discussing in an urgent procedure. I expect amendments from the government that will only put in further confusion what we are actually discussing. So it is important to me that this is an example of one I would say even a slightly irresponsible proposal and an incomplete proposal that in a certain, indirect way compromises the whole legislative process. I repeat what the representatives of interested organisations have told us, I will repeat that I do not know how many times, it is not a shame if this law is withdrawn and it is done in the right way with the necessary consultations with the European Commission, with the proposed ones and then back in the process again, because it will happen quite safely after the adoption of this law because these remarks that the European Commission will give us, as well as the objections of interested organisations, will be a legitimate reason for it to be put back on the agenda. So, I repeat my application, the most reasonable and fair would be to do what has been avoided, which is to have the right public debate on this law and that it should withdraw and return when this debate comes to very concrete, all acceptable solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6498	I've got Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic in my system, did you happen to answer, on what grounds? (National MP Miletic Mihajlovic, from the post: I am reporting as an authorised representative. I'm sorry, just a moment to check. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6499	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will comment on the proposed text of the law and this legislative proposal. In principle, I will comment, not going deeper into the problem he is dealing with, given that there will be a lot of it and a lot of work on this plan will be when we consider the law in particular. We have here through discussions that we have heard so far in representing interest, on the one hand by the applicants of copyright and related rights, which of course I do not dispute and should certainly and I am advocating that and how these rights should be improved, that kind of rights, and on the other hand, we also have the beating of those other spheres, which are users in the sense that they are more significant and that they may even be in an unfavourable position in relation to what is the exploitation of the rights of these authors, phonogram manufacturers, etc. We in the SPS would not define ourselves in this regard, and we think that it is also important to work on improving copyright and related rights for all holders of these rights and that is very important. On the other hand, make a improvement in those procedures, in determining one fair fee from the users of all this. Of course, this is a very difficult and complex job. Furthermore, I do not dispute the involvement of individual debaters representing the Social Democratic Party, including SPO and DHSS. We also see in the SPS that this bill on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act at the moment is not very comprehensive and that there is indeed room for it to be more comprehensive in terms of better and better respect and respect and other some authors who are not covered through these changes here. Of course, it's a process, we had the adoption of this law in 2009 for the last time, and I think some changes were in 2011. Indeed, at this point in time when we look at this problem in this way and when we hear the arguments of those who represent a certain point of view, we really think that in some foreseeable time there will be some changes and additions to this law here again, which I think is good. Given the complexity and complexity of the overall matter, such a topic will often arise in terms of improving the legislative regulation on these issues. When it comes to the protection of copyrights and related rights, these rights stem from a special sphere of human action and in order to speak of copyright, there must be a copyright, and the authorial work is an original spiritual creation expressed in a particular form, regardless of its artistic and scientific value. This expressive form of authorial work is often material, and on the other hand, there are copyright works that do not express their form through matter. And all of this actually points to this as a fact that points to complexity in the exercise of copyright and related rights. It's very difficult to talk about some perfect and realistic measurement in the exploitation of an author's work by the user. There has been progress and we have through history the emergence of copyrights since the 15th and 16th centuries, and the first National Copyright Protection Act was passed in England in 1709, which gave the authors exclusive rights to what is an economic category or profit or exploitation based on these works, for 28 years after which the author's work passes into public property. Of course, it's one experience and one start, because it's not the beginning when it comes to copyright in 1709, but it's one law, one form that regulates that matter in such a way. So, that issue of law enforcement at the time was conditioned by the emergence of literacy of development and progress in literacy, techniques at the time, and yet this further progress was made to the first international convention, it was adopted in 1886, which is so-called. The Berin Convention, under which the duration of exclusive rights has been increased and extended to 50 years since the death of the authors. Among the signatories of this convention for the sake of the public, that dimension should be given when we talk about copyright, and we often speak too narrowly and too esnafically, and therefore incomprehensible. Among the signatories of this convention was Serbia. Later in the old Yugoslavia or the first Yugoslavia in 1929, our first copyright law was passed. It is clear that the need to protect copyrights and related rights is in direct proportion to technological, cultural and other developments, and the greater this progress, the greater the need for legal regulation of this matter and the more complex mechanisms in what it is to regulate this matter. It is important to say when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright, which is here on the agenda, in this capacity and in this scope, as it foresees as a proposal, that this is the result of a comprehensive and good consultation, a quality consultation between collectively achieving copyright and related rights organisations on the one hand. On the other hand, between the users who make bonds for public disclosure of music works, interpretations and phonograms, and thirdly, the Institute of Intellectual Property as a special organisation of the state administration, responsible for intellectual property issues, which, in addition to other things, has these competences, granting permits to these organisations, confiscation and, of course, supervision of all these issues. It is very important to underline, as Mr. Minister said, that the bill respects the experiences of countries in the environment, it is very important. Another fact, economic opportunities in our country as they are, i.e. the criteria, the economic criteria are very relevant for the adoption of what they are and the level of certain tariffs, and these experiences should be used in terms of certain categorizations, as they should be, etc. What you would add, of course, is that we, too, agree with the proposed measure that when it comes to a special fee, it cannot be higher than one percent of the value of that device on the government list, which is charged. Furthermore, the basic criterion for determining the compensation for public reporting of music works and phonograms is to determine the amount of compensation, minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia. It's very important because, in some ways, it's not a relative category, and it's more realistic at this point in our economic development, our standard and it's more appropriate than any other category, which was mentioned here, is the average profit. Of course, the square that serves as the basis of the charge is also significant. And it's also that we support, that some of the actions, first of all, we think of craftsmen, should be released from one of these charges. Furthermore, I would point out that only one organisation charges compensation for public announcements of music works, interpretations and phonograms. I think it's legally proposed to be the oldest organization, if I'm not mistaken. We are thinking in this direction that this should be an organisation designated by the Government, with another note that the distribution of these funds should not be done before the agreement and agreement on that height, in terms of the proposal, is made to the Institute for Intellectual Property, which is used. When we talk about the Institute of Intellectual Property, we agree with the fact that such an institution, with one full credibility, with one experience and one status that assumes its constructive participation in this process, will contribute to making the right proposals, or make the right decisions when it comes to the height of those tariffs. When it comes to categorization, we think that these spheres should be represented in this issue, with the participation of representative representatives, users, on the one hand and on the other, collective organisations, and that this is not a matter of unilateral decision-making and conclusion on this matter. Of course, it is good to provide for the introduction of electronic programme broadcasting controls. Radio broadcasters and TV programs, they're required to keep electronic records, and the RRA needs to be in control of this. It should also take account of what broadcasters are, on the other hand, when it comes to tariffs and criteria, on the basis of which certain fees are charged, for the reasons that exist, so to speak, broadcasters with higher capacity, with greater opportunities, which affect both wider space and greater economic power, and with the assumption that they make greater revenues than those small, small emitters who have often or barely survived in the previous way of fulfilling their obligations. Finally, to conclude that in this segment, which processes the proposed law, we think that progress has been made in a positive way, and from that aspect we will vote, noting that we expect the European Commission, on its part, to give positive opinions in consultation with the Government, and otherwise, if this does not happen, of course, we expect the Government to propose what further to be done, so as not to be in part with what is expected and what we need to meet in terms of standards according to European practice. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of such a proposal, with the expectation that certain improvements will be made, when we discuss in particular the amendments, and of course through what will be amended by the competent committee itself, and with the expectation that we will have this legal matter in some reasonable time, with a broader scope and those other subjects, which are very important in terms of culture, whose copyright or related rights should be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6500	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6501	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we have already heard, the existing Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was adopted in 2009, except of course had one very positive, I would say one of the most positive assessments of the European Commission, only its adoption did not cause any dissatisfaction among authors or users. I am afraid that the possible adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Copyright Act will have a great dissatisfaction, and the author, and as the minister himself has already been in the opening statement, as well as some of my fellow MPs, have indicated, will not receive transitional assessments from the relevant European institutions, so, therefore, the European Commission. Of course, there have been, to say the least, certain problems in the application of this law. We've heard from some fellow MPs, that we were on our way to eliminate these problems, especially when it comes to the amount of compensation for public announcement, let's say, for the music dinar. However, what seems to me to be that, rather than repairing, to do everything possible for the existing law to be applied in an efficient and responsible way, we approach amendments and additions to the law and I think, at least I have four fundamental objections, which I find very problematic. The first one is this unification of the bill. That's what I was talking about, so I wouldn't say it again. The second is the Commission's suspension of copyright related rights. I know that there was a problem in that part and it did not work properly, but it seems to me that it was one democratic institute, or the Commission was competent to give opinions on the tariffs proposed by collective organisations, i.e. professional associations. She may not have done it properly, but the transfer of this kind of surveillance to the Institute of Intellectual Property, in my opinion, in some sense raises suspicion. Here's why. I have great respect for the expertise, the competence, the conscience of the people who work at the Institute of Intellectual Property. I believe it is one of the best and most trusted institutions we have, but the founder of the Intellectual Property Institute is the Serbian Government. I'm afraid we're opening up the possibility that the government or individual ministers in the future can exert some kind of influence on the Bureau and then we won't have what it was meant to be, which is exactly control, or control over these compensations. My basic objection concerns a member of the Sixth Law and all his views. First of all, I don't understand, because as far as I understand this Article 6 and points 1 and 2, here we have two types of users who publicly announce, or broadcast music, one that is not necessary for the performance of the work and the other, whose broadcasting of music or the reporting of music works, interpretations and phonograms is important for their performance. For those who do not care, it is introduced to them, except 1/12, etc. and very clear categorization when it comes to squares, up to 50 squares, from 100 to 150, from 150 to 200, and for these others, which are important for the performance of the music, there are only two categories – up to 50 squares and over 50 squares. Sixty squares is also more than 50, but 600 squares is a lot more than 60 and over 50. So I think there's something wrong with that categorization. In my opinion, the already made objections and the call for what is a key change in this law, and it is in article 6 of the public declaration fee for music works, interpretations and phonograms in crafts actions that are not paid, this is one big trap for all of us. We all know, there have been many words about this, I thank Mr. Obradovic, he is a correct minister, he came here to defend this law, but it is clear to all of us that the real promoter of this law is the finance minister. He was also announced to be one of the authorities on behalf of the government. We all know and have already mentioned these pre-election promises, that in some way the finance minister has promoted himself as the patron of the craftsman. All of us who point to the difficulty of such a provision, I guess we'll be declared against craftsmen. I would warn the craftsmen not to trust the Danish when they bring gifts. There's always a Trojan horse. We've had before the adoption of these financial denominations for days, and even for weeks an incredible propaganda action to promote the abolition of taxis for companies, for crafts, for small and medium-sized enterprises. I really think there should have been some taxes to be lifted, there were too many of them. The craftsmen are happy. Hairdressers made statements – wonderful, they'll cut our taxes, etc., and then the Law on the increase of the PDB was undetectablely adopted. I suggest that the craftsmen be re-elected, how many per year have been allocated for various local taxes, and how many have now had to be allocated through the VAT for the purchase of re-competitions, for the payment of utility services, etc. I think it'll come to the same, if not to the worse they've passed. That's one thing. Second thing, I was listening to a colleague from J.S., who says it's okay, where this little craftsman is gonna pay for a music dinar. The problem is that when we say craftsmen, craftsmen's shops, there are precisely these small shoe shops, clothing repair shops, but we also have very profitable bakeries and bakeries and pastries and beauty salons. If we were to protect these very small craftsmanships, those that barely survive, I'm sure there were ways and models to do it, not like this in general, to make up for it. Who are we doing a favor to? The biggest ones and the ones who make the biggest income. That's one thing. Next thing you know, we're trying to fool the authors and craftsmen. You know what, since Minister Dinkic often mentions these hairdressing shops, related to the suspension of taxis and the suspension of cash registers, if by any chance we could pass a bill that would order hair salons that have more than five hair dryers, each of these extras would give in to small hair salons that have two or three of these hoods, because, my God, we need to be solid, we need to help small crafts shops, etc., what would that owner tell us? How can you do that, it's my private property, I earned it with my 10 fingers? Copyright is private property. It is every author with his 10 fingers, with his wit, with his talent, with his knowledge, earned by his education, and no one can give him the right to bow or give up or restrict his right to, to say, the payment of that use, his private right to take away. You can't even legally take that away. We all know here that Minister Dinkic is the author and has decent income from copyright, but I'm not sure if such a proposal would come to the Assembly if it were the only thing that made him live. Why? Because 90% of authors belong to the category of independent artists. Those 10 are ministers, professors, teachers, and they have a salary somewhere, working. So, that 90%, if not more, of independent artists, lives to make up for their copyrights. We will punish them with this law, and we will still fight them with craftsmen, instead of finding the right solution, so that those who cannot pay for it do not. All in all, it is difficult to support this law because it is discriminatory, because some of its provisions are contrary to other provisions of the Copyright Act itself, because they are contrary to the Constitution and because they are contrary to international conventions, contracts and directives, with everything that we, harmonising our legal system with Europe, have committed. So now I wouldn't repeat everything my colleagues have said and I would only allow myself to read Article 58. The constitution precisely because I spoke of the nature of copyright as the rights of private property which states: "The right of property can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market". Since we in the Copyright Act have established under what conditions this right can be restricted, these amendments and amendments to the law are contrary to the law itself, with members of Law 32, 33, 41, 117. I could count it by tomorrow. I would not now repeat what international obligations, i.e. contracts, conventions and directives have been violated. But in this statement of compliance with EU rules, it is simply amazing that, for example, it is not the only case, when it comes to the application of one of the directives, what should we comply with, which part of the regulation? The author only has the right to prohibit or allow others to perform their work, as it says in our Constitution. Then the promoter writes completely in sync. How harmonised? So, and what we've filled out, that we're supposed to be completely aligned, we're not. It's in direct opposite. All in all, what I'm saying is it was best if we pulled this law out of the process. Now that we have not done so, I am encouraged by the statement by Minister Obradovic that we will still listen to the remarks made by the European Commission and other international organisations and that he will respect some of the amendments that MPs have made. I myself belong to those MPs who have submitted amendments to this law, and I beg you, we are already used to having laws returned to us because of non-compliance with European regulations, but why do we do it to ourselves when we can do it ourselves. We've been informed enough, we're smart enough, we've been trained enough so we can pass our own laws in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6502	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6503	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that causes a nice debate. It may not be that interesting to the citizens, but it was nice to be during the discussion, although it does not really refer to what is the subject of change, but really to what is important, and this is the whole law and experience of its application in previous years. We've heard a few definitions that are true and what are textbooks. I thank the MP who read them. We also heard some parts of the law, and it was a pleasure to remind myself of what I wrote a few years ago. Maybe this is a nice opportunity to say first what these changes are about, and then I'll agree with everyone who spoke. To point out that these changes from the point of view of the application of the Copyright and Related Rights Act are only part of the changes for which the need is indicated. That's why we need to know that first of all, I realize that it's prejudice, and copyrights aren't just individual, and at least they're artistic. In a segment where these changes are now changing or proposing amendments to the law, it is in fact about the entertainment industry and it is about the control of the emitter and it is about taxation when importing part of the technical means, which are used to multiply and reproduce works on which these copyrights already exist that need to be protected. The state, or part of the organisation, is able to ensure from these fees that part of the Esnafian association is passed on money to compensate for what is not possible by registering. Let's take it in a row. I don't want there to be politics in this, so let's just get this straight. I've never been involved in any pre-election campaign, I never do that. I know, of course, that it was a lot like a pre-election promise, but this is too sophisticated matter to talk about common sense during it. Let's talk a little bit about common sense. It's not a serious political grudge, when someone's capable of fulfilling a pre-election promise. It's a grudge when he's incapable of fulfilling it. The problem is when he makes a pre-election promise, and then during the opportunity to keep it, he does the opposite. I guess we'll take care of it in the future, so we don't find ourselves in a situation that was unpleasant, at least to me that I made clear in the discussion of the previous days, when we talked about what really allows autonomy. I made it clear - I'm not from Vojvodina, so I have no rights, but I was uncomfortable when this House first had a president of the Vojvodina Assembly here, for the first time in the law discussion had a secretary of the government, a regional secretary to explain what the amendments were. A whole series of MPs raced to show that they were not important at all, but that although they were not from the territory, even though they were not from the parliamentary lists, even though they were not among the province's MPs, they knew better. That way, they made fun of each other, and it was embarrassing to see that mockery. They mocked those who were really in charge, to defend something because the citizens chose them. After the election, certain organs were formed, whether someone liked it or not. That's one thing. The same applies to discussions we heard about some mayors. Those who are mayors must enjoy all the respect of this congregation as long as they are. I'm asking you to take care of it. Let's get back to the law. The government says – what are the key changes and what are the effects they wanted to achieve? The most talk is when the so-called music dinar for craftsmen is abolished and reduced by owners of catering facilities. Or that the catering facilities will pay the music dinar and compensation for the music rights author, depending on the area of the facility and the geographical position. It's a very clear intention and I understand it. She's also talking about something in the law. You know, we make laws, but the world these laws apply to, he's out of this room. Sometimes it's easy to say something here, but the question is, is the current law applicable? Don't lie to me, it doesn't apply at all. Worse, it is politically selectively applied. The minister rightly said it couldn't be the same if you had a craft shop in Lebanon or had it in downtown Belgrade. In order to further separate the music dinar from the same tariffs, they must, depending on the geographical position, have space to differ. You know what's up there? When we pass a law, and we have a wrong custom, we don't talk about it in one assembly, that we make laws decisively, and we carry out cautiously, rather than vice versa, to listen to each other, to hear what it really looks like on the ground and to approach laws with caution, to be determined in their implementation. In cities under the expression of Lebane, I suppose the minister thought, as a rule, you already have huge unemployment, you already have gray atmospheres now that you really charge music dinar in all craftsmanships or smaller objects, you would have more and more pain and silence. That's a fact. On the other hand, we know that this legal provision is often, depending on the authority or the possibility of the influence of individual powers, which is not always a matter of politics, that we do not lie, applies only to some, and that in fact, some are fined, because others are allowed not to pay anything. It's a reality. When the government proposes the law, not this one, whatever it is, and notices that something is being misused or that it is not a question of law, but of justice, it must intervene. I have to say, as much as people are obsessed and impressed by the ability of one or more ministers to promise something in the election campaign, and to make it come true later, it's not true. We've all seen this before. Mr. Obradovic and I reminded ourselves today, there was already one proposal in the Assembly that sought to find a way to solve this problem, to ensure, on the one hand, what was terribly important. We as a state, like all states in transition, at least respect copyright, not to lie. Since it's a prerequisite for not only having the law and being applied, but having courts and orderly and effective justice, we don't have it, and that's not the question of a government's guilt, that we're not lying. We are in a situation where we can simultaneously promote the possibility of really, at least in one segment, and once again, it is not a question of art, culture, it is an entertainment industry, but that at least in one segment, we can create preconditions where there will be no economic justifications or to say – it is unfair, give it to you in Novi Sad or Kragujevac, which you have come to me in Kosjerić to apply it, in my small shop, therefore, to respect copyright everywhere. I'm sorry if I sound a little ironic, but you understand, this is about a kind of copyright. All other copyrights don't treat these changes. I'm a little embarrassed, my copyrights have been robbed in the past 12 years, and I'm a little embarrassed to hear that those who have either made it possible or helped or participated, I wouldn't be surprised to find themselves among the authorised representatives today and to talk about what these amendments of the law don't speak of at all. Let's go back to the second set of changes, which is very important. And I am encouraged by Minister Obradovic's statement and I have signed some amendments as much as yesterday, which go in that direction, which are about trying to bring our commitments to the EU, under the conventions, our own laws and the possibility of it actually being implemented. The pressure was high in previous years in different segments by lobbyists, but also by the really interested ones, to solve some issues in practice. I must say, when it comes to one other segment, which is taxation on imports, or first sales, where there was a strange assumption from the legislator's point of view, that all citizens of this country are criminals and that when they buy a computer, they will certainly use it to steal copyright. You can't go from that assumption. I must say that within what the sublegal acts, i.e. the work of the commission and the rules, Mr Obradović and I have explained, we have asked the other members of the government, and they have all supported that in this technical way that what was being threatened is not being realized, so, to be clear, they have not been threatened by the greatest possible taxation so far by all importers, the sellers of the total equipment, which is now, and this is very important, classified as what is phono equipment, which is used in reproduction, in studies, what is classical computer equipment. In contrast, here we now have a whole series of proposals in these changes, which in some ways relax all those who worry about the need to move as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible, the larger and more diverse number of different computer equipment gets to the citizens and that they are not additionally burdened by anything else that really doesn't end up in the hands or in the pockets of the author, and in particular, it will end up in the works of only one author, from one area. What about the movie? That money's not going to them. What about writers? Someone here mentioned it several times. What about the real majority? They're not individual, but collective copyrights that are most often stolen and abused or not paid, say, agency copyrights, news. Take a look at the public organization sites, as well as the Assembly, so check where the photo is from and if it says who it's from. Look whose news it is. That applies to every ministry, Mr. Obradovic, on the government website and where it comes from. Would you like an even better example, since I'm talking about music here? We had, as well as in case of inauguration of the previous president, performing songs. At the beginning of the anthem, of course, and in the end, something that isn't now, and you know that I'm in favour, and I'm going to propose a legal amendment, something that would have to be a solemn song and be performed at the end of different events, and also various national celebrations. It's "Riving Servius." The assembly here heard "Vojsta Serbija" solemnly. I think we're up, though it's just a formal song and it's not supposed to get up. Do you realize that there are copyrights on this? The Baronian Vartex family is alive. It hasn't been 70 years. No one pays them. There must be a way to find a deal for such performance according to the family, therefore, or to allow different institutions, and there will be no RRA, there are no shirts where you can find that this song will be performed and in whose performance it will be, therefore, that these copyrights are regulated. The State must first, by its example, show that it cares about copyrights, that it makes different agreements, therefore, with authors or copyright owners, as it suggests that the Esnafian organisations and associations agree on mutual agreements to agree on monitoring, distribution, etc. and which is obviously something that is not a classic public debate, which we have attended, and there have been various MPs testifying, over the past years we have heard about, about various interests, how to deploy, which association. That is why it is here, and I support it, given and solved – what if they do not agree, because it is logical to assume that they will agree, and it is logical to assume and not. A solution has been given. I have also signed an amendment to specify what will happen in that case, so that what is currently in the proposal is not just said. In that case, the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property will decide. Mr. Obradovic pointed out that, unfortunately in previous years we have found ourselves in a situation that we haven't had serious, and I'm sorry, I don't want to draw any political attention to this, but I'm talking about those technical services that took part in the negotiations. Often they did not have accurate data on the sustainability of a legal norm from the field and we are often in need, and it was realistic, that the sooner we pass some laws from a particular area, that we respect what has already reached the standard and we were not able to look closely at the steps that we create the possibility of really respecting that standard. This announcement that we have now heard from the observations, suggestions and enquiries, which are three kinds of remarks we have heard from different European organisations, whether they are esnafic, whether they are lobbyist, whether they are political, that they are once again considered and that possibly the amendments to the committees, I hope that I have well understood, suggests a potentially different solution in some amendments and additions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is common that there are no major political disputes about such laws in these areas. Of course, part of the political folklore is that something that was still in the Assembly yesterday, or something that you advocated yesterday at the government, you're defending the opposite today. That's not what I'm gonna do. I guess a lot of it will hold. In any case, once again I ask you that when it comes to this law, in the next period, I agree with many colleagues, it is necessary by not just one ministry, now that we have created a condition, when we finally have properly registered representative associations in one area, when, in accordance with the strategy of the media, we will have to bring a whole series of laws within which there will be new obligations of regulatory bodies, that, in comparison with all of this, cautiously and patiently, we will collect what needs to be changed in this law that has actually been done, otherwise when it has been brought, in recognising the problems in this area, what we need to do, in the next period, to approach additional amendments to the law, in order to adopt and respect the objections that we have heard today, which are not at all subject to these amendments to the laws that are before us. That's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6504	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? No, I don't. In that case, we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister and the Honored Citizens of Serbia, are before us three years later to amend and supplement the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. At first glance, the public of Serbia seems uninterested in these changes and additions, but believe me, since it is a music dinar, as we say, and this music dinar has a specific weight of several million euros in Serbia, such a poor one, then the interest in this topic is really great. It's not just small radio transmitters. Anyone who believes that he has the right to care for intellectual property and copyright and related rights is being followed today by a meeting of the congregation. So every law on copyright and related rights is by the meaning of the matter that is governed by so-called "the law on copyright and related rights". system law. It provides rights to literary, scientific, professional, artistic works, interpretations, sound and video recordings, films, TV and radio shows, databases and the like, as well as means of achieving all rights and their judicial protection. In other words, this law affects culture more than the Law on Culture and Media, more than the Law on Radio Diffusion. It is very likely that the practical consequences of his solutions are not very public and do not present many in public. Of course, every law that is passed, including amendments and additions to the law, on the moment they are adopted in this high house, changes the life of someone in Serbia. It's a responsibility we have to go from. There are a lot of controversy about a few members of this law. I'm inclined to believe that the minister really has a good will to meet the suggestions that are coming and today he said so. I think that on the Committee on Culture we will be able to make some adjustments that will go in favor of those most concerned by this law, which is exactly the fee to be charged. By the way, we've had some special remarks about these changes and additions. Probably when the law begins to live in practice, and the transparency of law enforcement is really what all of us are concerned about and those to which it applies, then we will come up with some solutions. When the law was passed, we were here all day arguing and trying to fight for our amendments, for some we are, for some we are not and we have the law as it is in action, and today we have before us and its changes and additions. Intellectual property is certainly a broad term and that is what should be one of the most significant resources of one nation and one state and as such we should also observe it. Justice is what all those concerned expect. Law and law are the instruments of justice that we all have the right to in this country. What I would just like to put as one small remark, among other things, which we will also bring to the Committee on Culture and Information, when we agree with the Minister on the possibility of the amendment still working, is the question of the commission that is being changed here by Article 9 of the opinion, i.e. from giving an opinion, it is the fact that the commission gives its consent. In the previous session, there was a problem precisely in the work of this commission, because this commission spent three years without visible results. She had a very difficult composition, not to say that this composition was constantly changing, and eventually the commission was abandoned by the president himself. In order not to cost us time, money, and time is very expensive and we don't have enough money, attention must be paid to exactly who will and how to enforce this law. The implementation of the Copyright and Related Rights Act must be really very transparent, because I said already, intellectual property is something that is our, perhaps, most significant resource. So, all these rights that need to be protected and all those who need to pay certain fees for the use and use of copyright, they want this law to be equal, just for everyone, first of all, just and in view of what one of the speakers said, and I don't think it was the same thing to have in Serbia, at this point, one shop or one radio station somewhere in Apatin, somewhere in Žitoraja or Belgrade. We have to protect these people who, however, live every day through this music dinar and this music dinar. I expect, indeed, knowing Mr. Minister that he has always been a very good associate with MPs, regardless of whether they are from a position or opposition, to have a broad understanding when we agree on some more amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6506	Thank you. Mrs Mojevic, on what basis are you answering, just tell me? (Gorica Mojovic, from the post: As an authorised representative. You have no right, you are not mentioned. You do not have the right to reply, and you can contact later, because we are violating the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Mojovic. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6507	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in line with the position of our parliamentary group, I would say only for the sake of the public that the performances of our parliamentary group will not differ greatly from those of us in the previous assembly session and in the previous one, when we have tried really to be the voice of the ruling coalition, and all in order to make our path towards the EU, which means, in translated terms, the path to normal, orderly and rich Serbia, as short as possible. That is why, in the past, we have often been told that we are also the opposition in the then government, and we have indeed pointed to everything in our best intentions, which we think should lead to the harmonisation of our rules with EU regulations. We tried to break many delusions and prejudices, which exist in the ruling coalition, in this way, because in many elements of their behaviour, all governments, and I think of the governments after 5 October, did not behave Europeanly. There was a dead race between several political parties that wanted to attach this exclusive right to being epic, that they could bring Serbia into the EU. Somehow we as the only representatives of the European right in Serbia, at those times we should have felt inferior, but we didn't. I would also like to say to Minister Obradovic, as a representative of the Government, that many legislative proposals that arrive at the National Assembly in front of the MPs, and behavior after drawing up the draft working group, the absence of public debate, the urgent procedure, etc., and then we see, when you enter the National Assembly that there is a big problem and reminds you of the behaviour of DOS after 2000. Serbian citizens sought changes, sought positive changes. If you're making changes, in every segment of your operation, make sure they're positive. You're here in your opening presentation of many of the cards you've thrown out of my hands. You said you'd just talk to the representatives of the European Commission, probably Mr. Deger, the European Commission's envoy, that you'd consult with some other professional associations, that you'd look at the amendments, etc. It is an honest and correct act, but at the beginning of recognition that the law that has come before the MPs is missing, that you have no argument strong enough to defend it, because the text has come behind which you stand and that it expects help from the MPs of the people. You'll get help from everyone. Mrs Mojovic has made very constructive proposals and representatives of the ruling majority who did not have the courage to tell you everything they think about this bill and we as part of the opposition party because we have proposed a lot of amendments. What is my suggestion – come once, if you are referring to European principles, because Serbia's citizens and we, who are truly supporters of Serbia's EU membership and the full application of the European standards in Serbia, are sick and tired of calling for European principles, and that in one part where there are stakeholders who are responsible for acting anti-Europeanly, consciously or unconsciously, there are legal proposals that do not contain European solutions. At the beginning, there's a suspicion they're anti-constitutional. I received information that the director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, Mrs. Branka Katic, has repeatedly said that the amendments to the law are not good, that they are contrary to European conventions and standards, that at a meeting of the Committee, representatives of the most relevant professional associations said what is of interest, possibly the Government, if the intention is good, that such a law should be withdrawn from the procedure. Take a public debate, have a conversation with all relevant professional associations, and then come with a law that really in a fair way protects a wide spectrum and the beauty of the intellectual property of all intellectual property makers in Serbia and that protects all their rights in a fair way. In the debate in particular, we will see first what information we will get from you, as regards your contacts with the representatives of the European Commission. Believe me, we're sick of how many letters, suggestions, calls and appeals we got that this is not working. I will conclude, with each of the following draft laws, do not refer to European standards unless they are applied 100%. Either we behave in everything European or anti-European, and all this between us doesn't lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6508	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Mirna Kosanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6509	The President-in-Office, respected fellow MPs, I just wanted to point out that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is governed by the right of authors of literary, professional, artistic and other works, the right of interpreters, the right of the first publisher of free work, the right of the producer of phonograms, videograms, emissions, databases, the right of publishers of printed editions, as well as the rights of related and copyrights, the way in which copyright and related rights are exercised, as well as judicial protection. The author's work is the original spiritual creation of the author expressed in a certain form, regardless of its artistic, scientific and other value, its purpose, its size, content and manner of expression, as well as the permission to make a public statement of its content. Among other things are written works, books, brochures, articles, speech works, lectures, speeches, drama, drama and choreographic works, music, film works, works of art, works of architecture, cartographic works, plans, sketches and theatre directors. The author, as such, enjoys and enjoys moral and property protection. He has the right to do his copyright work from the moment of the creation of the author's work. All rights of the authors are already regulated by the existing Copyright and Related Rights Act. In one part of the provisions of the law, the existing law and now in force, talk about multiplying the author's work without the author's permission. In this respect, the law provides for the right of the author to special compensation and takes into account the likely damage incurred when his work is multiplied without authorisation for personal non-commercial needs. The fee is paid by manufacturers, IT sellers, and directly paid by citizens who buy and use devices. The reason for the proposal and the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and in the members who are closer defined in the proposal, are that the criteria for determining the tariff for general fees are too abstractly set. In addition, they are not sufficiently adapted to individual forms of copyright and other related rights. These changes are particularly important in order to introduce exact criteria for determining the amount of compensation. It's two types of compensation. One is a special fee, which is the one provided for in Article 39 of the Law. The second is the compensation for the public announcement of music works, interpretations and phonograms under Article 171 of the Law. A special fee shall not be paid for devices and objects purchased by a potential obligor in another country or customs territory. The government shall adopt an act establishing the devices for which special compensation is paid in the event that a device or object has multiple functions. The existence of the obligation to pay a special fee shall be determined on the basis of the purpose of that device. As regards compensation for public announcements of musical works, interpretations and phonograms, it shall be paid when a public statement is necessary for the performance of the user. The height is linked to minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and as an additional criterion for determining the amount of compensation, the area of the commercial business premises of the users is taken. In this respect, the fee shall be taken into account whether the public declaration of musical works is necessary for the performance of or is only useful and pleasant, and in this respect the fee shall be determined at a lower level unless it is necessary for the performance of the action. Therefore, appropriate customer categorization is being carried out. Also, the categorisation takes care of what is the geographical headquarters of the users, as well as the financial traffic that the user makes. What is also contained in the draft law, which is that with the date of entry into force the Commission's work on copyright and related rights, and its obligations, items and resources is taken over by the Institute of Intellectual Property. The Institute of Intellectual Property has this importance that the registration of copyright works or related rights will provide evidence of the existence of the work by registering and depositing with the Institute. The Office shall not have the capacity to examine the subject matter of deposit, and the receiving shall provide evidence of the fact which may be relevant to any judicial dispute concerning the protection of the authority or any other need, and in relation to the matter of deposit. In conclusion, I say the SDPS will support the proposed changes to this important law, as it is essentially a reform of the economic system that will redefine the economic and social crisis, and also lead to reforming and improving the political system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6510	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6511	Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing a seemingly limited change in one side law. I think the interest in this law stems from the fact that art is between us and that it is important for us, that music, that these changes are primarily about music, all present in our lives. When we look at things better, we see that there are a lot of economic interests and there are certain interests. To this day of this change and the addition of the law show that we are still in a situation where, in this sphere of organization of our lives, those who should be directed at each other behave like horns in a bag. That's not good. Here, a new attempt to do it this way. We believe in the DS that these changes and additions will not be enough, nor are they directed towards a solution in this domain. Therefore, if the parent board, and I want to make sure that the parent committee is not the Committee on Culture, but rather the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, that is why Dr. Zarko Obradovic, not the Minister of Culture, is here, unless these changes are passed, we will not be able to vote for these amendments and the additions of the laws. I also speak here as a proponent of that 2009 law, when I was minister of science and technological development. Just to remind us that this law was an important reason why the European Commission in the report for the year, and for rich people last year and 2010, said that the domain of intellectual property protection was one of those where Serbia made the greatest progress and where it almost fully complied with EU rules. We see, that is what the proposer Dr. Zarko Obradovic himself said, and I thank him for that, and here we have the European Commission's letter, to keep these amendments and amendments of the law away from that harmony. What's more important is that they bring one form of discrimination into our society. It is true that Mr. Obradovic should be Mr. Dinkic at his place. Here's the paradox. When we talk about craftsmen, let's remember the campaign in May of the month. I guess that song and that music where they're craftsmen, I remember some baker, so there was some other craftsman, defending the colors of these political parties through that way, through authorship, through art. Here's this paradox that this party, which has been used in very art and authorship, is today trying to compromise the constitutional and against-law interests of those who, I'm sure, have brought a lot of votes in the previous elections. In order for our citizens to understand better what is proposed here, to see why what I am about to say is not against craftsmen, my colleague Gorica Mojovic has shown brilliantly that this social group in our society is also very heterogeneous, that it is not so uniform that we can simply exclude them from the collection of what is actually the inalienable right of the author's own. If this regime already wants to vote to abolish this music dinar, as it has become known in our society, for craftsmen, should we also vote on a law that would free all authors from paying all craft services for life? For example, here in the Assembly we have Mrs. Milekic, we have Ms. Adzmovic, we have Siniša Kovacevic, after all, we have Mr. Deret as author and Mladjan Dinkic, so should we now pass a law that will free them from all services of every craft for life? When we show things like that, we see that the right to property, the right to the fruits of our own work, which have craftsmen, must also have those who are authors. That is why we do not believe that such a change will endure a more serious lawsuit before the Constitutional Court, and they do as they come. I must say, dear Mr. Obradovic, that with one part of your exposure we cannot agree, which is that all associations were in agreement with these changes and additions. We have in the DS, as well as all the other parliamentary groups, many of these memos where it is evident that they disagree with each other, there is nothing new in that, but that they do not agree with these proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Speaking of this suspension, let me just say one and only one category, that it violates our international obligations and the Berlin Convention and the Roman Convention. To quote a little bit of the law that, if these changes and complements are adopted, directly in cohesion, not only with the Constitution and the international obligations of our country, but also with Articles 32, 33, 41, 117 and 127 of the existing law. It can't be in half, if you want to change this, you'll have to change these other members, too, in order for the law to be coherent within it. I am pleased with the fact that Minister Obradovic is ready to accept it, and we will initiate it, the amendment, and the chairman of this committee, Prof. Stojkovic will surely propose that tomorrow during the board meeting, in Article 6 this other discrimination and one absurd, which is that those who live on music, we think of catering facilities, discotheques, rafts, that some of them have 400, 500 or 600 square meters, and we know that they are not social cases, are treated as someone who has exactly 51 squares. I wish you a lot of success in application, because I don't know who's going to go now and measure how many squares there are, where guests come and where they don't come. It was much simpler that you relied on the IRS and the Statika Property Act and then eventually the fee was reduced to an absolute amount, and then multiplied by those square meters. I think there's a lot of discretion here, and who's going to go to the field now to measure where the guest is going to step, and where won't? In these provisions we clearly see that it went too fast and that it did not consult enough with either profession or associations. I'm sorry, I have to say, which by who knows which way, I'm going to conclude, where we have to form a society, where the state doesn't ask about everything, the state has to ask where the state has to ask about it, but I guess it's a democracy that people who have a certain legitimate interest, it's about authors, about those who are interpreters and those who do it, so I guess it would be normal for their associations to cross their interests very clearly and to come to an agreement. We may not have properly arranged the second degree, when there is no agreement, but I'm sorry that everything is now being transferred to one organ that works well, but it's going to be one huge pressure from the government, because there are conflicted interests, obviously, as well as from these professional associations. It won't be easy for a functioner to try to make a decision that should be imposed on everyone afterwards. There's a lot more to discuss. We know, for example, and this is another example of absurdity in the application of certain things, that the Exit Festival has a problem with SOKOJ for years, because they are trying to collect compensation for absolutely all the numbers that were done there. Some judge, I suppose, in Novi Sad, decided that no tariff would be applied to what goes over the phonogram, i.e. on a delay or via a CD, only what is effectively played there, but it will be applied on the whole basis of all the performances, and we know that 95% of them are on the Exit. Exit isn't the only festival that has that problem. This judge is trying to impose a higher tariff on everything that's been done there. That's why the Exit is blocked, and that's the millions in euros where we argue here. I expect, and this ends, that after who knows which way, introducing an emergency procedure of something that isn't really well discussed, it's not well enough craftsmanship, just so one minister can say – here, and I did this, as if we're going to have an election tomorrow, so maybe that'll be the case, so to say – let's go to those new early elections and we've done everything. I don't see any other motivation. It is necessary to consider the committees very well what can be considered. Minister, I expect of you, I know your professional conscience, that in the months that come this time, taking responsibility for this law that is in your portfolio, and not elsewhere, there are serious, thorough and consistent with European traditions, but much more important, with what our country needs, that we have some real changes and additions to this law. The way it is, it's just bad. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6512	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6513	Thank you, Chairman. At the very beginning, I'd like to point out some things. No one is abolishing copyright today, copyrights are one of the fundamental rights of every modern society. What I can personally express as a pleasure is that one request from the entrepreneur has been transferred to concrete action. Yes, the URS are consistent in implementing what they promised in the election campaign. What I'd like to remind all of us, and it seems that some of us have forgotten here, is that we discussed a similar law with the same intentions in the spring. That this law was in the congregation procedure and that at that time, as a member of the Science Committee, I also supported some of my colleagues to amend this law, which also concerned the abolition of the music dinar for craftsmen and a little clearer tariff definition. So I don't think that this issue should be about this issue too, because this is exactly the subject of amending and supplementing the law. Also, I am proud that we belong to those who listen to the voice of the economy because I also have to point out that the caterers from the municipality that I live in, after the adoption of this law, came to talk about how they have problems with the payments themselves, how the amounts, by doing so through three payments. Whether I agree or not, but there were disputes and the previous speaker emphasized it when he spoke about "Exit", from the very beginning of applying this fee, from defining tariffs to disputes about forming associations that have the right to charge popularly for this music dinar. It's also sad, but I'm going to say that the authors may have achieved the least rights in this way. The music dinar is the best indicator of how an under-developed, unaccounted parafiscal undertaking can cause sometimes more damage than benefits and how those who are directly bonds of this imposition and to the legislator himself who has prescribed this imposition and ultimately those who were intended for direct users of this income, and which I have just pointed out earlier. This is the attitude and the people, and I think we're all familiar with this. Once again, I will stress this law, that is, the subject of this amendment does not abolish copyright and applies in the most part to the music dinar. What was to me a curiosity was to say the first national law on copyright protection was passed in England in 1709. According to the current law, the fee for the music dinar in Serbia is about 400m2 per year for coffee owners, which is about three times the rate, I may have been wrong to say precisely because I said about, which is three times the same fee paid in the UK. When we go to the bars up to 100 m2 it's about four times more than in the UK. Watch out, in the cradle where the copyright law was first passed. I also welcome the fact that the music dinar, for craftsmen, is being abolished by the owners of the catering facilities. That the catering facilities will pay the music dinar, or compensation for copyright, for music depending on the area of the facility and geographical position. You know, the housing community from which it comes falls into the ranks of the most underdeveloped municipalities of this country and believe it's very good there when someone hires themselves, so through a catering facility that is part of the social and cultural content of a community. Then when he gets the ruby, he doesn't get the best of it. Of course, it is encouraging news and will be controlled during a future period of those who are not registered. You will agree with me that the craft cannot be the same in Zitist and downtown Belgrade, that the price of drinks is not the same in Zitist and Belgrade and that it is very good that this is being taken care of, because this is one of the small steps towards equal regional development. Also, just as I said, that confusion with three payments and the introduction of a combined bill is a welcoming measure, but it is also defined and the way to distribute the funds proposed by the change. Also, what is good is that as a basis for determining the monthly fee in the current calendar year, it is taken the amount of the minimum tax-free earnings and contributions in December of the previous calendar year. Let me just make one small parallel, that according to the applicable 50 m2 catering law, 3,118 dinars are charged, and according to this proposal it will be 1,736 dinars and 45% less. When we start doing that analysis on objects that have a larger surface, we get to it, say for objects 50 to 100 m2 the amount is going to be less than 63%. For objects 100 to 150 m2 also 63% lower. I think these are good measures aside from the previously abolished 138 parafiscal duties that applied to small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, yes, I'm proud that the URS are consistent in fulfilling their pre-election program. Yeah, I'm proud that even the voice of a businessman is kind of being looked at in a way just at the adoption of these changes and additions. With that I personally have no reason not to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6514	The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6515	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, copyrights and intellectual property are a general area which is of great importance in the process of harmonising our legal regulations with EU regulations. This area forms part of the contractual law, i.e. it belongs to the matter agreed with the EU, with the European Commission in the framework of our negotiations on an EU accession agreement. I think we all need to keep in mind that in previous reports, the annual reports of the European Commission on Serbia's progress, this area in our process of compliance with EU rules has been very positively assessed so far, as well as the strategy that has been adopted in the area. I think that is why it is extremely important to maintain a very high level of and professional debates and the quality of the legislative process and the quality of parliamentary debate in considering every proposal aimed at achieving some changes or changes in the legislation so far. This, however, has been completely disabled by the way this bill was prepared, or sent to the congregation, for debate. The very fact that we are talking about this emergency procedure law suggests that there was not enough time to consider the proposal, that there was not enough time to ask the European Commission for an opinion on time, which is otherwise an obligation, given that this belongs, as I have already said, in the contractual area. There was no time to organize public listening with all interested actors in this process. Should I remind myself that in the previous session almost all the laws we have passed and that they belonged to the Action Plan for gaining candidate status have been adopted in the regular procedure. I think those standards we set somewhere in the legislative procedure, I think we should stick to them because it's just good. Part of the current majority in the government is believed to remember that. We must therefore try to make the legislative process transparent and allow the effects and consequences of the proposed legislation to be clearly seen by the government. We heard from the minister today that talks with the European Commission are now under way and that the government is considering the European Commission's comments. That's very good, and I'm sorry we didn't do it at some point before the law went into procedure. I think that, in this way, we, as MPs, would have to talk about something that is the final proposal of the Government, because if we are now expecting some amendments that the government may propose or not propose, or through the committee of directors, it means that we are not actually talking about the final proposal of the Government, but that we do not actually know what the final proposal of the Government will look like. I wish we understood each other, that our goal wasn't just to criticise some legal text for criticism. Indeed, our goal is to maintain one level of debate, one level of legislative process that we have had whenever it comes to processes being part of our alignment with EU law and that our goal is to have as many laws as possible. I think that's what we all do in the interest of citizens. There is a danger that in one part of the bill as proposed by the Government may be a step back from the standards that we have established so far and it is important to talk about and see on the committees responsible if we can make any changes in these proposals to avoid these adverse consequences. I will not talk about all these details about the European Commission's comments and various associations, I mean the SOKOJ, which are exposed to our public or through some of their expert opinions that have been delivered. Of course, it is a question of equalising compensation for authors, phonogram manufacturers, interpreters, not taking account enough of the fact that the right of the author is one separate right, unlike the relative rights of the interpreter and the phonogram manufacturer. The question arises, are the criteria applied in a provision which maximises compensation well and clearly, whether mechanisms prevent any arbitration decision when determining who will actually be obliged to pay compensation both in what amount and in what way? Are these mechanisms good enough, precise enough, and will it allow equality, above all, for the users of their economic strength, against their geographical position, as proposed here, and of course to provide and preserve copyright in a way that we want to do? I think that is why it is important to hear from the representatives of the government who are the results of the talks with the EU and then be able to talk about the final proposal that the government will offer afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6516	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6517	Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to highlight the fact that, in all the assessments of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, it is not necessary to depart from prejudge, and this implies what the Constitutional Court will say when we do not even know whether an initiative of constitutionality has been launched before the Constitutional Court. What seems inappropriate to me is that every attempt to introduce order, the system order in certain areas, faces inappropriate criticism. As regards this law, it should be pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act are achieved by the objectives which involve fair and non-selective solutions, both in the area of copyright protection and in relation to the area of determining how payment and the amount of compensation charged by the service users. I therefore believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Copyright Act have an overly social dimension, since it is doubtless that the proposal is managed by economic powers, i.e. economic parameters and the financial opportunities of users of services, in an attempt to put as little burden on them as possible. This social dimension, in any case, should be in all of these exhibitions in the principle debate particularly highlighted, because I will now point to a phenomenon that is already widely known to the public. Given that I am in the nature of the work related to the judiciary, I stress the fact that there are a huge number of litigation cases in the courts that are initiated by a lawsuit of organisations such as SOKOJ, OFFS and this because of the unmistakable obligations of the user of services on behalf of the payment of fees. In most of these cases, they are conditioned by the fact that service users are unable to comply with obligations in the way they are required, i.e. the rules implementing SOKOJ and OFFPS and which are envisaged. That is why I personally believe that these proposed amendments and additions have made one balance of burdens with respect to users of services, and that is for certain categories of users of services according to the categorisation defined by the provisions of these laws, while at the same time that certain categories and are released, which is very good, and I mean the craftsmen. Also, a very good solution to these proposed amendments and additions to the Law is to be introduced into the regulatory body system, i.e. that the state is introduced as some kind of surveillance into this matter through the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property. I am personally convinced that this kind of regulatory part of the job should have been introduced significantly earlier, a team before there was a lot of irregularities and irregularities, especially in terms of how to determine and how to pay the fees, the number of organisations dealing with fees and the distribution of fees, i.e. the fees that have been charged. It is a very good solution that these proposed amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act are now defined as being done by one organisation and bearing responsibility as well as consequences in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of this law regarding the distribution of charge. What used to be, I hope it will never happen again, and that is, let me not be resented by those who deal with matters within the framework of SOKOJ and OFFS, a rather chaotic relationship, both between themselves and excessive imposition towards users of services. I also believe that it is a good system solution to pay for a public statement in the way I have suggested, and I am convinced that a far fairer solution is that the amount of the monthly fee is linked to the minimum wage, because if otherwise determined, there is no doubt that there is one risk due to the lack of average monthly earnings affected by the numerous circumstances that will be from month to month and then we come into a situation to make a completely negative selection for users of services, which in any case is not good. In that situation, we unequally and inappropriately burden them all. That is why, I appeal to the resolution ministry, to the Committee of Resolutes that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that an amendment be put in place to remove one by one an unfair position, especially the owner of a large area, the owner of a discotheque, night bars, and I think of spaces over 300 square meters, where they have one benefit. In the proposal that is now defined here, they are essentially putting on a more favourable position, because they are less burdened than the owners of a space whose surface is much smaller. I will fully agree with the Honorable Minister Obradovic that such an amendment can be accepted and I appeal to the resolution committee that the amendment in this regard be defined and proposed to the Rules of Procedure accordingly. In all other things, everything defined by this law deserves unreserved support in any case and as is said by my predecessors, a fellow SPS colleague, and that is why this bill on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6518	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6519	The Honorable Chairman, Minister Obradovic, will not be able to support this law unless amendments that are essential in nature, submitted by the DS parliamentary group, are adopted. When the Law on the Protection of Copyright began in 1930, the first of its kind, so, a hundred years ago, there was a major disturbance among the Shabbish cafes. The real halls were almost gone, so it was played in restaurants. Therefore, the owners received a warning that without the author’s approval, i.e. author's agencies, they can't perform theatre and music plays. The owners of the restaurant, which would allow for free or with a fee at their place of performance, and without the approval of this agency or the author, were fined from 500 to 10,000 dinars or prisons from seven days to two months. Work permits were issued by the secretary of the Association for the Protection of Copyright, whose headquarters at the time was, only logically, at the National Inn. It is not known from which the Sabbath National Library in 1936 asked for approval for its grand concert, Ludvig Van Beethoven, but it did it at the highest level. These were the first forms of copyright protection, 100 years ago, in Sapac, a small town, the authors enjoyed the protection of their copyrights. What stage are we in today, 100 years later? The problem with our society is in fact, as my colleagues mentioned, that intellectual property is not perceived as an absolute right, but often requests for its protection are seen as a whim of copyright and related rights. Application for copyright protection, invention, creation of other intellectual creations, are not equal with other forms of property, with ownership of real estate, ownership of movable goods. That is why, among other things, our society today is at this level of economic development, because intellectual property is not protected in the right way, and that is what I want to point out at the beginning. The previous Government with the 2009 and 2011 law on copyright and related rights has made a serious step in protecting copyright, so that all groups of authors, so that individual copyright makers, through collective copyright organisations, can truly protect their rights. In that case, in that part, there is no dispute. It's a law that's good but has its own shortcomings. When I wrote about this subject, I pointed out more the shortcomings of this law, I will look back a little later on, first of all, on a certain kind of abuse of the monopoly position of collective copyright protection organisations, but a little later on. However, for this government, for the current Minister Obradovic, whom I highly appreciate, and we have discussed this subject several times on the Committee on Science and Education, is to apply the existing law. Why? Because stealing copyright or abuse of copyright in our space, in our country at the time, I speak the data that was made during the SCG community, has shown that SCG then, over 90% of the ownership of copyright is achieved on the black market. Research has also shown that this is an amount greater than that achieved on the drug market. Therefore, a nominally higher amount of piracy compared to the black market in narcotics. Therefore, this research by the International Alliance for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, the SCG was then placed on a special list, which meant that our country was required, since in the world summit itself, by the prevalence of piracy and infringement of intellectual property rights, to carry out certain activities, they were given to seven measures that our country was obliged to carry out. A good part of these measures has been normably implemented by the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Copyright and Intellectual Property. However, the question arises whether this law on amendments to this law goes towards the implementation of those directives, to prevent piracy, or whether it threatens certain intellectual rights. When it comes to monopolies, which are not controversial about collective organisations, which protect copyrights, they are not controversial, not according to our Constitutional Court's decision. So, monopolies exist. According to European institutions, collective organisations' monopolies exist, but their abuse is disputed. So, by establishing that some copyright protection organization has the right to protect intellectual property, it is given a monopoly to protect copyright. I'll quote in that sense, the Constitutional Court's decision, which said Article 84. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits the abuse of the monopoly, but not the monopoly as such. In the light of this position, the Court points out that the Law of Copyright and Related Rights, which was subject to the supervision of the Constitutional Court, prevents abuse by authorising the State to control whether the collective organisation meets the conditions for obtaining work permits, to withdraw the collective organisation's work permit, and to supervise the work of the organisation, and the rightholders are left with the possibility to exercise their rights individually. In that sense, it is the role of the state to control collective copyright organisations, and that is not disputed. However, it is disputed whether this law exceeded that good state control measure, as the state has now prescribed prices. So, the state entered what it entered into with the Payment Timelimits Act, for example, which we discussed yesterday, when it entered into one regulation of bond relations, prescribing payment deadlines for commercial entities. This is where the state crosses the border, which was given by the Constitution to control the work of collective copyright organizations. I ask a question, does it cross? It is a question for you and for our, or your European partners dealing with this problem. Even in addition to being the position of the Constitutional Court, is the position of the European Parliament, which, in its resolution on the communal framework of collectively achieving copyright and related rights, puts forward a position, a disproportionate exercise of copyright and related rights, naturally leads to the creation of a practical monopoly on the market. So it's not a dispute, and we don't argue that you control that monopoly not to be abused. However, what is a problem is the fact that you introduce duality or multiple representation of individual rights through collective organisations under individual copyrights. Nobody does that in the world except the U.S., who has a special copyright protection system. Therefore, no European state provides for the protection of collective copyrights through two or more organisations. So, only one organization protects copyright, while the state has the ability to control whether it does it by misusing the monopoly. In this sense, it is a serious reserve put by my colleagues, especially my colleague Mojovic, to give the possibility that more organizations protect one collective right and charge compensation creates a serious problem how it will work, especially if there is no such thing in the world, except in the United States, which has a long tradition and way of negotiating the donor and users of collective rights. What is certainly a serious problem in protecting collective rights is the fact that when we talk about protecting copyright essentially we talk about protecting authors of masculine works and all those who are related to music, so we talk about music dinar and similar things. Where are the creators of scientific works, textbooks, scientific works, translations, literary works? There's a problem and there's a problem in law enforcement. In fact, until the other day, you could find all the works of literature, from Ivo Andric to the latest creators of poetry and prose, and on some other sites you could find textbooks, scientific papers, etc. And it didn't bother anyone. Mr. Minister, since you were Minister both in the previous government and in this new government, you now have the role of Minister of Science, I call on you, this is a constructive proposal of the opposition, so I would say, and so I spoke when we were in power, that the realisation of this law is not only a question of authors, but a question of the economic position of this state. I invite you to devote the next session of the Committee on Science and Education to the subject of copyright abuse. It's a matter of both inspection and police and economic crime and all other entities that need to protect intellectual property like any other form of copyright. Once again, a man may be working his entire career to do one scientific work, or to write one textbook, as a man can build a house his whole life. Now you have the opportunity to take this work to the photocopier, copy and nothing to anyone. True, that's why a sentence of one to three years is scheduled, but that's not applicable. Tell me, please, when you get on the board, how many times have you spoken to the Ministers in charge to stop it? I'll give you an example I told you on the Committee on Science and Education. My senior college colleague told me when he published a textbook in his field, that he had received funds from the publisher who bought Lada Special, and he had something left to go to sea. He spent his whole life trying to write that book. Now my colleagues can't buy Lada, but they can't buy that 30-year-old Lada, which is already for old iron. Not only that, they have to invest their resources in order to issue a book at all and they will never recover it. Those funds are only being invested because of some moral satisfaction. It's up to you to protect their property rights. So, the question of collective protection of musicians, so to speak, is a very serious issue, but they have their own organisations and have more organisations and are a serious partner in negotiations with both the state and the users of these rights. In this sense, ambassador groups also protect these authors, but I draw attention to a group of authors who are not yet protected, who do not have their own organisations, because their material and other positions do not even allow them to create a collective rights organisation, which must meet a number of preconditions, and financial and material, etc., that it has rooms, that it has a professional face, that it has certain financial resources etc. In that sense, you must help these organizations. In the case of special compensation for imported goods, or produced, which may serve as a subject of abuse, this is a particular topic. We could talk about that in particular. First of all, whether that height is adequate, who determines and whom these funds go to. So, no colleague who has betrayed scientific work, a book or any other scientific work from which this country is benefiting, a patent, will get no dinar from that paying dinar. Why? Because they don't have an organization. Who's gonna get you the money? It will receive several organizations dealing with the protection of the copyright of musicians, phonogram publishers, etc. With regard to the application of this law to trade, there is a very different practice in the EU. European courts have had their hands full to put the cannon on their feet. It's not a simple question. What Mrs Mojovic was talking about is a very delicate question – to whom and when can you charge compensation for the use of copyright? Here's the SCF case against Marco del Corso, tried the Third Greater European Court of Justice. The ruling on March 15th took the view that persons with access to phonograms did not represent a public during a visit to the dentist whose existence would create a obligation on the part of the dentists to pay compensation. The term "public" refers to an indefinite number of potential listeners, and it also points to quite a large number of persons, with the number of those present at the same time with dentists very limited. Although there is an increasing number of patients, the fact is that since patients enter individually, they generally don't hear the same phonogram. So here the European Court of Justice has been very detailed and said that the dentist has no economic benefit from playing music, because they will come to the dentist and without that music and with that music, if the dentist is good. However, that question is very delicate. The question and economic strength of the dentist should be asked, as Mrs Mojovic spoke of and the action they perform and the fact that they have more potential to pay than someone who has a shoe shop. In that sense, the DS is to protect small entrepreneurs and to disperse, but in any case, all these parameters must be kept in mind. And protecting the authors and the economic potential of those who provide services are not all the same. When we talked about tax exemptions the other day, it's not the same thing to free the tax on the one who didn't want to pay the tax, has the property, has the capital and the one who couldn't because of the state's measure, because of the economic situation to pay the tax. We invite you to reconsider any objections from professional organisations, objections coming from the EU, as well as objections from copyright users. Perhaps, above all, those who were in one part may have been affected by the high fees and fees they paid on several accounts and did not even know what one’s going for and what the other’s for. We can understand the care of these people and the caterers, but it's not the same if anyone has a five-star hotel and 500-square restaurant space and someone who has 60 squares, say, roasters. That's two different concepts, and it was supposed to be extra graduations. I'm not against the state to settle some basic parameters, but I am without talking about the state entering bond relations between the donor and the copyright user, but to help empower copyright users and to be a serious partner in the negotiations of copyright organisations. In this sense, I repeat once again, the DS cannot vote for such a law, but with the fact that very useful amendments and objections to all these factors are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6520	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6521	It is a positive sentence for the work of this House. That's the wrong interpretation I support. I support Mr. Veselinović for not referring to what the law does, and should give incorrect information about the site on which the plagiarized works of literature are available to everyone. This is a good example of pointing out incorrectly, so as not to allow them to be directed because of what the MPs say, to guide users into further violation of their rights. Thank you very much, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6522	According to Articles 27 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set a regular break of one hour and continue at 15.45 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6524	Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, although we're not much in the O.R. this time, but I hope the rest will arrive, too, on the agenda are amendments to the Copyright Act. I would like to begin by thanking the colleagues who, speaking of this law, stressed that this is a pre-election promise from the URS. I probably wouldn't start a speech with such a finding, but since everyone tried to point that out, I want to thank them, given the fact that they were talking like they got a "massage boxing" from my party. Yes, it is a pre-election promise from the URS and I see nothing wrong with politicians in Serbia fulfilling their promises. That is the goal when you take responsibility in a particular area. This isn't just a pre-election promise from the URS. I want to say that this government is working as a team, working together, and that every party in this government intends to keep its pre-election promises. I understand that might sound strange. I understand that some MPs, they said that we're talking, that we're working as if there's going to be an election tomorrow. Yes, it is one of the basic ideas and mottos of this government, which is that all pre-election promises will be fulfilled as soon as possible and that all the policies we have promised citizens will be implemented. We absolutely feel it as a compliment. As for the numerous objections that colleagues have made to the law, I would like to say that there are amendments to these laws and that some of these amendments are likely to be adopted, as has happened in good practice during the previous days as we discussed economic laws. One of my colleagues said yesterday that when the amendments were adopted, that that means that the law was not good and that the government had not prepared a good law. On the contrary, when amendments are adopted in the Assembly, it means that the Assembly is doing its job, then that means that the Government and the Assembly have a real relationship that is defined by the very essence of democratic processes in our country. To remind ourselves, the Assembly is not here to extend the government's hand, the Assembly is not here to vote by definition, or the majority of parliament, for what the Government has proposed. The assembly is here to improve, improve the government's proposals and it is a legislator, therefore, responsible for the laws it makes. That is why it is very good for the amendments in the congregation to be adopted. As for the objections to compliance with EU law, I would also like to stress that this is certainly not a government that will dispute our country's path to the EU. On the contrary, this is the government whose mandate will be to start negotiations with the EU. This government will do nothing to make it questionable. This law certainly isn't on that path. This law is on the path of European integration and facilitating business in Serbia, but also respect for copyright. Why isn't this law against the author? He's definitely not against the author because the authors will get the organized area in which they work, because he'll get more money for his works and performances and because he'll know exactly what their rights are and what part of the money he belongs to them now. That's not how it's been so far. So far, this area has been pretty messy despite the existence of the law and existed after the controversy. Someone has already listed some of them, such as "Exit", and I would mention another great festival from southern Serbia, which is "Nishville", where performers also perform their own works, and then organisers have to pay huge amounts for copyright. According to one of the organizers – it turns out that authors pay for themselves. Also, I have to say that there have been major conflicts between the organizations that protect copyright and the authors themselves, that we could, in the media, the press, follow up on a number of discussions on the subject. Here, I got permission from a group of authors to mention them, which is a famous group called "Sars", which performs everyone's well-known number "Buddav leubac", which, as we could all follow in the media, has received 16.5 dinars of compensation for the number we all know by heart, which all the children in Serbia know and listen to through all the media. It's the way copyright was protected. It's not good and it can't be. They were supposed to protect their rights to the data that their number on one of Belgrade's radios was performed once, and from that very radio they got the information that it was done hundreds of times, which means there was a complete mess of what the number of executions were, what are the fees, who collects them, how they are paid to the authors, which the authors are getting. So, there he ruled, I can say freely, a mess and chaos that would be completely removed by this law. On the other hand, the Union of Employers also had a number of objections, believing there were absolutely no regulated rules on how many fees they should pay and who they are paying, so there were numerous comments on their part, there were also protests by guests in Belgrade, who expressed their dissatisfaction with the existing situation. For example, one representative of the Union of Employers says: "Citizens are not informed enough to defend themselves against the lawlessnesss carried out under the password of copyright protection and related rights, the reporter representing authorised organisations should be public, so that everyone knows exactly what music numbers should pay for. This is how it turns out that they represent all the music of the world, and that they have, since they exist, declared that compensation a business secret," the talker said. When the caterers protested, one conversator, the owner of one catering facility said like this: "We all play, mostly, international music, if we were playing home we would know, we would have a better insight, because it's paid to our authors and we just think it's too much and we would like to get reports where that money is going." These were the problems that needed to solve some of the issues in this area. As I said, this is not a law against authors, against this is a law for authors, which improves the current situation for them. Also, this is a law in favour of Serbia's economy. For authors, authors will know exactly how much money they need to get, because this law introduces the obligation of electronic shirts, which every media in Serbia will have to handle precisely. You'll know how many media releases and how much to pay for it. Every performer will be able to track how much his music was performed. In addition, the RRA will be obliged to control these performances and full records from January next year, so that authors can have full insight into the whole situation. What this law brings to the economy, we've already talked a lot about, is that the economy is now completely abolished by the obligation to pay the so-called. The music dinar. We think it's totally fine. Why would a cobbler in Lebanon pay a fee for a music dinar? He may not even listen to music. If she's listening to her, then she's certainly not for the purpose of performing her actions. Because you'll agree, no one in the shoe shop comes to listen to music, and no one in any way encourages music to act. We find it completely pointless for small crafts, which have nothing to do with music, to pay for a music dinar. This will free a large number of small craftsmen across Serbia from this obligation and will be able to carry out their work, with the possibility of making a profit. Believe me, in many parts of Serbia, it is almost impossible. Also, there are changes in the catering facilities. These are the objects whose work is related to music, in which people, among other things, come to listen to music, or music contributes to their performance. But here are also the criteria for how much to pay, depending on how much an object is, how many people come into it, how many people actually listen to that music and consume it, and also, depending on where it is. There can't be the same fee for some small cafe in Leban, in my neighborhood, or some large catering facility in downtown Belgrade. I have to tell you that, let's say, I can ask a reward question – how much does coffee cost in Lebanon? Believe me, you'd be surprised. That doesn't exceed 20, 30 or 40 dinars, depending on what object it is. Simply, it's impossible for one such coffee shop to have, say, up to 50 square meters to pay, under the current law, three thousand dinars to perform music. Now it will be significantly reduced and the facilities up to 50 square meters will pay 45% less, almost 50% less than they've paid so far, and that's about 1,700 dinars somewhere. These are some of the most important newspapers the law makes. We deeply believe that it is, above all, for the benefit of the author, but also for the benefit of Serbia's economy. With the belief that it is indeed of general interest, the URS will vote in favour of this law, fulfilling its pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6525	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6526	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I need to replicate the previous speaker from G17 plus. It doesn't necessarily mean something's good, just because it's yours. Only small people think history begins with them. You've begun to expose it, that here some opposition parties have praised your law, and that's not true. Many legislative solutions and your party's pre-election promises and other parties in this House have undergone changes after two to three years, as well as campaigns by certain political parties have been brought down, lately, to propose that all of what they have produced be abolished as legal acts. Let's just say, abolishing fiscal cash registers. I said that, as with the Information Act, as was the case or as will be the case with the Transfer of Transfers Act to Local Self-Government Act, and this pre-election promise that is being carried out in the work, which is confirmed by the minister, just because the pre-election promise is subject to a different view, changes in the text of the law in some subsequent period. No one disputes your desire for Serbia, or for you to lead Serbia through the EU, or to continue the path of European integration, but it is not a guarantee that this law does not have elements of anti-European values, and that is also spoken by the director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, many international institutions are talking about it, and do not misread the presentations of MPs, the SP-DHSS Parliament Club, you will have support, I have always said in previous exhibitions, for all that is good. We have agreed to amend this law, namely certain provisions of law concerning the sole interest of the author.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6527	Time, Mr. Jugovic. Mr. Predrag Markovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6528	Please, for the sake of mentioning the parliamentary group, let me remind you once again, that this kind of law, because and when the law was passed, we made a huge step as a state in identifying and identifying the problem, but it is a process. Any kind of remark, when one explains, such as in this case, Mrs Plassic, explains her views on supporting amendments and additions to one law, implies that it is an integral part of one process and there is no reason to accuse any parliamentary group capable of fulfilling election promises. Please, it's positive when someone's capable of fulfilling their pre-election promises. There's no reason for so much fascination, for that ability, to believe that what they fulfill will never be changed. It will be, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6529	Mrs. Plassic, are you giving up? Yeah. Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, not in the O.R. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6530	Thank you. Today we are discussing a bill of amendments and additions that regulates an area of life that may have been in the seal, due to the great thorns and great big events that have prevailed over the lives of all of us, in the area of copyright. I have to say that the attempt to sort out the situation in that area of copyright did not bear fruit, but rather caused one really great damage to most people who do their jobs, say, craftsmen, those who live off their work with their 10 fingers, so that we came into a situation that the creators of the economic environment in which we live, all those who have been in power for 12 years, began to care only now, how people live in real life. And the ex-post mind is better than no brains, so I'm glad, too, as a member of the Socialist Movement, and to all citizens, which some individuals came to their senses after 12 years. They began to worry about how to impose an ex post tax or impose on an ordinary hairdresser or auto mechanic who has a transistor in his shop. Dear gentlemen, you who have exercised power over the past 12 years have lost power precisely because of the stupidity that you have imposed on this poor, distressed people and because you have not taken care of what is happening to huge irregularities, not to say some harsher word, in the area of privatisation, in the area of sales and dissipation of what has been created by generations of people in Serbia, you have found one way to impose payment obligations on small people, "small", ordinary people living from their work, auto mechanics, hairdressers, craftsmen. I haven't appeared in the last few weeks, perhaps a month, but with great care I have listened to the lamentation of those who have exercised power for 12 years, as they have been crying for the wrong privatisations, forgetting one "Such", forgetting "Swisslion", forgetting much that has been privatized precisely by those who are their members, forgetting the sugarcans, forgetting many things that have led to Serbia today having a need to achieve the ideal of justice and justice. I'm not saying that this is going to be one big step in that direction, but the release of those people who live off their work on these kind of duties, like I said the hairdresser, the craftsman, the auto mechanic, from one fee to pay the music dinar because they have a transistor in their shop, is really something normal. We have decided to bring a little more reality into the lives of ordinary people. With that intention, we are determined to support the bill that has this objective, which is to normalise the work of the state or to find some other way to fill the budget, and to exempt from the burdens that do not represent any positive progress towards civilised society as you, in words, wanted to create. In addition, two were created, more specifically created by parallelism in the collection of these payments for the collection of the music dinar, and these two organisations that made the collection created very unpleasant situations. If from 2005 to 2011, as many as 30,000 court proceedings are brought under these unpaid copyrights, if more than 25,000 accounts are closed or blocked, assess the effect of your government's performance at this time. I have to say one example that people, individuals, whom I know, have been brought into an awkward situation, have been arrested by the reports of the OFFS, and by the police upon request from the Court of Commerce of Nis, to appear at a hearing before the Court of Commerce, where it has been found that there is no responsibility. Not to get into the details now, there were examples that they were breaking contracts, that one organization was no longer in office, but that there were regular records of the need to collect that condition. The former director, a female person, was arrested, even spent the night at the police station after the OFFS report. This is one of the reasons why, personally, as a Socialist MP within the SNS parliamentary club, I will support this attempt to normalise the situation in Serbia, because it was really not normal for ordinary people, craftsmen, for the third time I say, auto mechanics, plumbers, computer repairers, TV mechanics, to charge some compensation for the realisation of copyright. On the other hand, let us not think or think that the authors will be damaged by such a bill or by such amendments to the law. It was taken care of in that direction and that. If we look through history at the way the authors were treated by their country, they used to take care of their lives. Perhaps those who have exercised power for 12 years may have given themselves the task of being rebuked by authors who would be their listeners. That wasn't good. That's not good. People need to be able to live off their work, even if they are engaged in a trade, whether they are authors of musical works. That's why a centralized charge for using their copyright works is good. This parallelism that existed in the collection of these fees has been thrown out of practice and will now be done by only one organisation that has a long 50-year tradition, which is SOKOJ. Because of all this, and in terms of normalising the situation in Serbia, we will support this bill and we hope that it will lead very quickly to concrete results in the lives of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6531	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6532	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, there is obviously a law before us that needs to reconcile two things. One thing is the rights that the authors themselves have. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia's intention is to create a different environment, to help small and medium-sized enterprises, especially crafts actions. We're free, on the one hand, if we have artists who create, and on the other hand, they disappear from Serbia that part of the population that deals with craft work, so they can't pay what they're paying for right now. For me, this solution is a compromise that corresponds to the moment in which Serbia is located. We certainly can't speak the same way as economically developed countries, because there's another environment, there's another way of thinking. I've had the opportunity to live in Austria for 10 years, to see how the craftsmen live there, how they live here. But believe me, these are huge differences. In that sense, we need to find a little different solutions than they have. When we talk about copyright and their owners, then I want to say first of all that we have to do one very important thing and that within these professional organisations, which distribute funds, we try to make order, because there are some structures that give some of their loved ones a little bit more money than they should, and those who are others don't give anything. I'd like to propose two concrete proposals and think about them together. One thing is that we live in a country, in Serbia, where we have a serious crisis of the cultural model, and where we should all ask ourselves a question – can we through this law contribute to the creation of a new cultural model, a cultural model in which, for example, a Serbian ethnic house or an ethnic house of a national community will be in a different status when paying obligations compared to a discotheque which, I suppose, in the opinion of most of us, is not a cultural model that should be encouraged in Serbia? In this direction, let's think together, that when we speak, fees for public announcements of music works, interpretations and phonograms in craft stores are not charged, that we should also enter into objects of particular social interest. If objects are of particular social interest, which is in accordance with the Constitution, because the Constitution says if there is a special social interest that can then limit these rights. For me, it is a special social interest if we listen to music in an ethnic Serbian house, which deals with this kind of cultural offer and tourist offer. If we encourage this, then we are doing something that Europe is doing. In Austria, by the way, they have a tradition with their so-called the wine houses and how they encourage from the budget and in other ways the lives of those houses that represent their tradition, which represent the offers of their culture and Austria is the state that makes huge revenues by selling its tradition in one serious way and that is their serious tourist offer. Let's see if in this way, let's say, in Idvor, in the community where I come from, where there's a salash, where there's a typical offer of Serbian cuisine, can we help survive this place, if this is how we reduce those obligations that they normally have and where these people are at the border of survival? The other thing that is my question to you is how do you interpret the geographical position? Is the geographical position of Belgrade-Lebane or is the geographical position of the Prince of Michael Street, Boulevard and Moller Street? In that sense, if there is a narrow interpretation, and then we talk about Belgrade's position and Leban's position, then we have one serious problem, let's say, in Knez Mihail they pay 5,000 euros in rent and in Moler's place they pay 300 euros, in Knez Mihail they charge 250 dinars, and in Moler's 100 dinars, even though they are in Belgrade, then we are indeed doing one injustice. If such an interpretation is, then we could correct it in such a way that, apart from the elements of the geographical position, we could also enter a price element per meter of the square rent, and then we would also do so in order to make serious differentiation within the cities themselves and within the municipalities themselves, and in this way we would really be one step towards achieving those objectives that we were talking about. The reason why I will vote for this law within the SNS parliamentary group and as president of the Roma Party and MP of that party is that I believe that this law is a significant step forward in the overall regulation of this issue, that this is not the achievement of an absolute requirement that we want to settle all the elements and I think that the minister has just spoken in this direction. I fully support your position that these days - two, as far as possible, we bring it into line with certain EU directives and thus regulate another additional correction. In that sense, they were my suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6533	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6534	Thank you, Mr. President. I just can't let something that I talked about today in a debate in principle and something that I've had a chance to hear and now in the discussions, it's gone. I am not surprised that the party that is the central party of this coalition is constantly transferring to the former regime how it has passed the wrong laws and how it has actually brought everything into trouble, from economy to culture and copyright, but I would like to remind my former coalition partners that in the previous term, DS had something about 60 MPs, 62-63, that with most of the 126 and 128 respectively, we have adopted all the laws, including this Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and that we have been very proud of that, as well as for many other laws, we have received a positive opinion and commendation from the European Commission. Also, I would like to remind myself that, because of this constant call that DS lost the vote, DS was second in the vote and by the number of mandates reached. Our coalition partners just changed sides and chose some other partners. I don't mind them, on the contrary, it's their legitimate right, as we had the right to choose our coalition partners. But now to say that only one party to the coalition in that parliamentary majority that passed these laws was responsible for all of this, I just don't think it's fair and it's not fair, and if you want, it's not moral. When it comes to the law itself, we have had the opportunity to hear, among other things, that the previous law has been introduced, this current law of 2009, the disorder and chaos that will be corrected by these changes and additions, because now all authors will have the exact amount of compensation for their copyright. I really can't figure out how this is going to happen, when we've only found, instead of all those individual professional organisations, that one will make a united payment and I don't see how the authors will still be able to control the use of their copyrights, except that the provisions of the applicable Copyright Act are still respected. Again to avoid confusion, I tried to explain this morning that the abolishing of trade fees leads many astray. It's here for the 50th time that it's a small trade, which is simply not true. The copyright fee is lifted for all trades, and that's exactly what I'm talking about. We need to protect those little ones, those cobblers, and for the repair of the computer equipment, and I don't know what. There are ways and there are models to do it. With this law, we are just protecting those who do not belong to that category of small crafts, small shops in the cities and towns of poor Serbia, but are just protecting those who can and should pay for it. In that sense, I was talking about the need for categorization and the possibility of carrying out some sort of different distribution of obligations compared to those who really do not have enough income, or enough economic opportunities to do so. So there's no delusion, it's not just small trades. It's pure populism and demagogy. We're cutting everybody off. What about those big, luxurious fashion salons for pedicures, manicures, tannings, etc.? That goes for them, too. So I think we can find a solution to the very ones we talked about treating differently. One more thing. Since I was talking about the pre-election promises made by this law, of course, it is important for every party to make their own pre-election promises, but when you enter into the procedure for the adoption of individual laws, you are obliged to consult both professions and professional associations, to consult both EU regulations and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there is a legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and to say – well, I have made those pre-election promises, but to see if this is all in line now, and not to say in all these talks – this must be lifted. Then what are we doing here? We're finging democracy, we're taking part in the debate, and in fact, the law has already been passed. So, I welcome every effort to make pre-election promises, but through draft laws that will be fully in line with the country's legal system, with the international legal system and with the opinion of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6535	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a principled search of the bill. I'm sorry, Mr. Obradovic wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6536	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all my colleagues who participated in the debate in this law and to say that, in my humble court, it is too important to add to the formulation of pre-election promises, because there would be no election promises, there would be no post-election solutions. All parties participating in political life in election activities tell citizens what they will do for them, and then depending on the structure of the government and the coalition majority one or more promises can or cannot be fulfilled or wait for another time to be fulfilled. I said at the beginning of today's presentation, and I will repeat again, this was one of the views that our colleagues from the U.S.S. have promoted in the election campaign, but this proposal is a proposal from the government, unanimously adopted by the government, and as such today, it is before you. Compared to what was the subject of today's debate, I must say a few words. Today it is also discussed what is not the subject of this law, what should be and what might be. We are ready to talk to both the promoters and those attitudes, to see what can be done, since, as far as I could understand, the announced initiative to pass laws that would treat these issues as well. We're ready to talk and see if that can be solved. Secondly, an objectively one significant set of issues was removed from the agenda from the arguments of the MPs who participated in this debate. I think that's good. Thirdly, what is important to me, I hope that you have made sure that the government's wish to create a law that is applicable, which will take care of both the private interest and the public interest. Public interest is like a category of something that has absolutely remained behind in recent years, as if it doesn't exist. We're all talking about party interest and we're talking about personal interest, private interest, and the public interest is the category that's left behind, and it's essentially interested in the greatest circle of citizens. The proposed solutions are because in the past three years since the law was passed, it means that you know, and that's what I told Mr. Markovic, every law is best when adopted, and when it starts to apply, then you can see if it's really as good as the promoter says or has certain gaps that practice shows, or which are shown in practice. We have proposed some solutions because simply in practice the existing solutions did not work. If you remember, when we talked earlier about this law, we saw that there was no such thing as a sign—good enough will of all the participants or those who were recorded in this law to agree. Someone was just talking about it. What if they didn't make a deal? It would be logical to agree, but since we are who we are, we have the mentality that we have, and we live here where we are, then we also face the situation that what for others is logical, it turns out illogically, when they won't or can't, or they don't want to reach an agreement. You saw that we did not foresee the commission, for the simple reason that the practice showed that the work of the commission was not good, that the Copyright and Related Rights Commission did not meet any of the requirements that justified its establishment. It was expected to balance these conflicting interests, private interest, public interest, to ensure a balance between private and public interest, which it did not do. Then she was late with the prescribed deadlines for months. The decisions made were, in a significant part, unsettled, and, of course, as such, it was not possible to disprove them in a second-degree procedure. It has often occurred that the fees confirmed by the Commission were also charged at reduced amounts. They even offered to pay in wars, which says they were neither fair nor economic. For this reason, we were unable to assess in the Government the Commission's work positive and for this reason we also felt that the solution was to take over part of these jobs, that it would do it more professionally, more effectively, with less costs per collective organisation and that it would address the issues it has in the content of the law, and when no agreement between the collective organisations and representative associations was reached. Of course, the decision of the Institute must be made within the prescribed time limit, and the failure of the deadline is sanctioned by the possibility of investing in the legal remedy due to the silence of the administration, and the decision must be reasoned and similar to that in the second instance proceedings. I'm just stating this as one example, so we can see that we've been thinking about how to improve the law. I want to tell you about the fee, since I have seen some MPs submit amendments and there is no reason not to be accepted, it is related to the level of payment of the music dinar in the catering facilities. Of course it's not the same surface and everything. Our finance colleagues calculated that, for example, it works in facilities with thousands of meters of business space, the current amount, for example, is 14,000, and the new one would be 21,000. Of those 3,000, the current is 32,000, the new would be 64,000. At 5,000, the current amount is 51,000 dinars a month, the new amount would be 106,000. So it's a graduation, so that those who use small or larger space are not evened out. Finally, what I have repeated today and in explaining the content of amendments and additions to this law, we have spoken to the representatives of the European Commission and I have not hidden it from you. On the contrary, I said we talked. I also said there were representative associations. What I didn't tell you was that some associations' proposals arrived another June of this year, but they were of a very general nature, without any individuality. It is interesting that the largest number of initiatives occurred at a time when it was found out that it was going with amendments and additions to this law, and the subject was open, as I would say, almost a year and more. So it looks like until we're about to create a situation that you have to react, you don't want to react. Of course, then it's always the proposer. Every good solution that's been delivered, the government is ready to accept. But to be explained, to be justified and to be in the spirit of the concept that the law proposes. As I mentioned to you the example of the commission's work, nothing means a commission in itself and that we're saying that it's a regulatory body when it's not, when it doesn't meet the conditions that we set. Then something's not right. We will be in a situation and that the amendments submitted by the MPs or which the Committee accepts, why not accept. I don't think that's the proposal's weakness, on the contrary, I think it's one quality because we're going to meet solutions that can improve the law and improve its content and settle another open issue. We'll talk about this law and in the day when the law is in particular. In any case, I have no doubt at all that there is a good will of all MPs to pass a good law and I am fully convinced that the law will be passed on the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6537	Thank you, Minister. We're going to the next agenda. (14, 15 and 16) According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that I am, for a joint review of the motions of the law at issue. 14, 15 and 16th agenda, in addition to the proposing representatives, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, Minister of Health, called on the sittings to attend: Vlajko Senic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Health and Aleksandar Kocic, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Business – Public Debt Management. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 14th, 15th and 16th points of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Taking Over Obligations of Health Institutions to Major Drugs based on the acquisition of medicinal products and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. Does the proposing representative, Minister Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6538	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when fundamental human rights are to be put into the law, the right to life and to protect health, it is always difficult, especially when certain changes and additions need to regulate such delicate matter, but our reality is such that indeed, here even within so-called. The financial set of laws we also talk about these contents that are more than delicate, and they concern all of us as potential patients, all of our health care patients, and they are related to the following facts. The extension of the human century that also applies to Serbian citizens, on the one hand, the fact that modern technologies on the treatment diagnostics plan, rehabilitation of health activities are increasingly complex, more quality and on the other hand, the financial potential between what is the need for a health system in our country and the financing that literally means 250 euros per capita for each citizen is in great discretion. The law, when we bring it in, and on the Committee on Health and Family, we really talked about it in an hour-long debate and very specifically, and that's why I'm going to be aware of just a few information about the content of the law today. So when we pass laws in this area, it is mandatory that we try not to deny existing rights to health care, on the contrary, to extend them. What in the bill of law standing before you is that we have made a proposal to extend the right to immunization for all persons, and those who do not have insurance, which are not secured, the right to preventive checks, etc. screenings and the right to the health care of all persons who are single parents of children up to seven years old. Of course, as part of the financial reality as it is, as well as the fact that when I became minister, I was able to establish a lot of sad parameters, that 13.5 billion long health institutions are according to drug suppliers, sanity material, one reality and the fact that in the next financial year and period we will enter with a deficit that will disable and reach the level of health care, I am taking the opportunity to express my gratitude to the members of the government for being a priority to discuss this very openly and try to find solutions together as a real real priority. The assessment of the government of the Republic of Serbia is that the 13.5 billion actually accepts it as a public debt, but at the same time it is a requirement set before not only this ministry but the citizens of Serbia that such debts are no more. There's been enough talk on the Health Committee about why such a huge debt, and what are we planning to do with it? The directors of health institutions talk about the name of the unnecessarily agreed obligations, and in order to provide once a minimum and once an optimum of health care, they had to enter into such relationships and it is clear that there are authorities in this country, institutions that need to assess the justification of that debt. The fact that we can't continue to make those debts has made us change these two complementary laws, the Health Security Act and the Health Insurance Act by providing certain savings, and that as much as possible, it doesn't go to the expense of healthcare users. In this regard, we have assessed that it is necessary for all institutions to do their jobs in accordance with the entrusted obligations of the state to individual institutions. First of all, we realized that it was necessary for the Institute of Public Health to analyse health needs, make appropriate plans and needs in health care and personnel, deliver them to relevant entities, in other words, not to deal with ensuring the existence of employees, but rather to deal with socially trusted affairs from the state and that it should therefore be a budgetary institution. In addition, we have assessed that I am a process of public procurement that is often perceived as a source of corruption, should be a reality when it comes to health needs. In this regard, institutions whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia should, under the proposal of this law, be supplied in a way that is actually centralized by public procurement, i.e. that there is one body, one service. Our proposal was to be the Administration of the Ministry to which the Institute of Public Health would deliver the programme, but there are different ideas, so through discussion with you, we will see whether it should be an independent body or whether these jobs should be entrusted to the Fund or to some third institution and any of your well-intentioned comments, suggestions in the form of an amendment will be analysed and suggested to the Government to correct the text of the law in this part. We also think that the lists of medicines that are often problematic from the aspect of the analysis, whether these lists really satisfy the needs of the other side, how much they are characterized by real financial frameworks, which is the path of getting some medicine to the list and whether it is quality, that it should be changed in a way that the waist has its place, and as part of financial opportunities. We have proposed the establishment of expert committees, which will provide their suggestions regarding the list of medicines to be on these lists, which will be provided by the RZO, which will respect these views and thus form a list of medicines. Also, we think that the profession and actually the health level that Serbia has at this point should actually improve some capacity on the plan for better co-operation of three institutions of the RZZO, the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health, i.e. when the existing law is applied, without any changes, and that everyone works in accordance with the planned jobs, if there were a little more discipline, I think that health care could be on a higher level per citizen. I will be fully prepared to participate in an interactive relationship with you in this session and I say, because of the fact that the representatives of practically all parliamentary groups had more than active participation on the Committee on Health, that at a session that lasted several hours we have actually analysed each segment of the proposed laws. I won't occupy your attention any further, but I'll be there to actively participate in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6539	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6540	Dear Mrs. Health Minister, what to say is your current position, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, is not grateful at all and it is probably very difficult and allow me to present the SVM position within the next few minutes, and regarding these three proposals. I will mainly talk about the proposed amendments to the Health Insurance Act, little about public debt, and in the course of my time I will talk about the specific problems of health institutions from three municipalities. We heard in your opening statement, and that is one of the basic objectives of these proposals to provide health care to endangered categories of citizens, to expand the circle of persons who have this right, and probably all of us support it, including SVM. I would like to emphasise the positive changes that single parents who have children under the age of seven, whose monthly incomes below the incomes established under the law, are from now on to achieve public income health care. Of course, it makes sense beyond these basic objectives, and the goal is to somehow create or establish, if possible, a health system that is financially sustainable, which is not easy. What I would like to talk about, which is certainly positive, is that the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians supports decentralisation, including decentralisation in the field of health care, and you did not talk about it in your opening presentation, but we could read about it in an explanation, which may not be clear to some, in fact, that this proposal proposes, or gives authority to an autonomous province, the municipality, or the city, that they can provide conditions for better staff security of health institutions, whose founders, to normatives, or standards prescribed by law and for which simply, due to the current lack of financial resources in the mandatory health insurance system, there is no means. In addition to this, up to normative and to standards, powers are given to the autonomous province, the municipality, or the city, so that it can provide funds for the employment of a larger number of employees in a health institution, whose founder is, than that established as a minimum by the standards prescribed by the Health Protection Act, as well as to provide means for space, equipment, medicines, medical means, which are higher than prescribed standards. Here, the question arises, will the autonomous province’s budgets, cities, or municipalities, be able to provide funds? The question is, is there gonna be enough money, because this decentralisation thing, giving jurisdiction is great, it's just a question of whether they're gonna have money for this? These powers only make sense if, therefore, both cities, municipalities and AP Vojvodina can provide funds in their budget. I hope that's possible, but I've been trying to consult with the country's health secretary, the people who work there. They don't know what their mission will be. If centralised public procurement is introduced, will the amount of funds they have invested in something larger and will there be enough money to pay for all these new responsibilities and how will local self-government be able to do so? Let's see. The negative things I have to say, not so negative, I know it has nothing to do with you personally and what you said in your opening statement is that, the issue of health care from gross national income to RS is one of the lowest separations in Europe, which is terrible. What I don't understand is that, right now I say this for the sake of the public is not for the sake of the MPs, we all know that, when we get the bill, we have a part in the explanation – estimates of the financial resources needed to implement the Health Protection Act. It is estimated here that the amount of funds is necessary, no matter what the funds are, only the funds necessary for the administration of centralised public procurement, i.e. funds for the needs of employees, other material costs to carry out this administration. So I think more money should be considered for local self-government, for an autonomous province, etc., because I don't know how they're going to be able to exercise these powers. Of course, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians agrees that health care, which is guaranteed as a right, the Health Insurance Act cannot be realized, is simply impossible to achieve health care without the provision of medicines and medical resources. As we've heard, health institutions don't have enough sources of funding to settle huge debts to drug suppliers, wholesale drugs. Of course, it's kind of clear to us, and this third bill, which provides for the way and dynamics of the reconciliation of these obligations, is just, how can I say, 13 billion really huge amounts. As I mentioned, let me use the presence of the Minister of Health as part of this topic to expose some of the basic health problems in the municipality of Sent, Kanjiz and Backo Topol. I will start from the Senta municipality hospital, which was founded as an inter-municipal hospital in the territory of the northern-banat district, it actually covers the population of the municipality of Senta, Ada Choka and Novi Knezevic, but also partially treats the citizens of Kanjiža, Vienna and Backo Topola. This is extremely important because patients, as much as 100,000, are gravitating to the Senta municipality hospital, means a region of about 100,000 inhabitants. In this general hospital, you seem to have mentioned to me a rule on the near conditions for performing health care in health institutions and other forms of health care. In this general hospital, according to this Regulation, the number of operations per doctor is significantly above the republican average, which means doctors in Senta are doing a lot more than prescribed in the normatives, simply because few of them exist here, unfortunately, which is probably a problem everywhere, a chronic lack of personnel, and this problem only deteriorated year after year. Namely, this institution, the Senta General Hospital, has the smallest number of contracted employees per station, in the entire territory of the AP Vojvodina. In certain services, the lack of personnel is so large that it simply affects the execution of the planned number of services. You can't organize continuous work, waiting for services, of course, always cause enormous dissatisfaction to those who need services most, patients. It is not clear to the people of the local self-government in Sainta whether they will be granted approval to receive new doctors instead of those who have retired, and this really presents a huge problem. So, to simplify, we think it is necessary to look at the humane situation in Senta General Hospital and allow the reception of the necessary, both doctors and pharmacists for hospital pharmacies, nurses and technicians, and possibly non-medical workers. Of course, there are other problems that everyone faces, as is necessary, for example. in Senti refurbishing equipment for RTG diagnostics. They claim their latest machine was purchased more than 20 years ago. The General Hospital is one of those in Serbia, which still lacks a computerized tomography apparatus, a scanner. In Senta, they complain that it is necessary to build an adequate space for an oncological daily hospital, in which a growing number of patients from the territory of this entire North Banat County are being treated year after year. Namely, currently oncology day hospital is located in the Senta Health Home building, and patients are provided with therapeutic services in two shifts. On the other hand, I must stress the exceptional co-operation of your associates, since the primaryirium of Dr Zoran Kovacevic, Deputy Minister of Health and Dr Simo Vukovic, State Secretary, visited Senta and addressed the health home of Senta to the Ministry of Health on their proposal, in order to gain consent to the expansion of the standard of human resources and the staff plan of the Senta Health Home, due to the dramatic reduction of personnel or drastic lack of personnel. They have now found themselves in a situation that none of them can go on sick leave or on vacation, they have even introduced overtime, which makes it even more difficult to deal with such a difficult material situation. What's interesting about these and similar local self-governments is that, for example, The normative does not predict a doctor for home care and treatment, but due to the age structure of the population, it is simply required that the doctor actively monitors these patients, which the chosen doctor, you will agree, cannot cover for himself. The Senti dental services also require more workers, since they have dental clinics, both in Senti and in the surrounding villages, where the population is mostly older and have disorderly connections in traffic. Other problems we've been informed of come from Backa Topola. There are 23 settlements in Bačka Topola, and the House of Health of Backa Topola has hospitals at 18. One of their biggest problems is, I don't want to put it wrong, but the proximity of Corridor 10, and the problem has a medical care service to which the home of health joins this Corridor 10. Emergency medical services are made up of only one team. Employees work part-time, 35 hours a week, in 12-hour tours during 24 hours provide emergency medical assistance in the entire municipality, as I mentioned, from 23 populated places and Corridors, which makes it necessary to receive a medical technician. Last year, during the previous government, when you were not the Minister of Health, they sent a letter requesting opinions and assistance in resolving the functioning of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service by releasing Corridor 10. The letter was sent in early November 2011, following talks in the cabinet of the previous Mr. Health Minister. Unfortunately, there was no written reply to the memo. The former Minister of Health said that Corridor should introduce permanence, the readiness of a team of emergency medical services, but the problem is that the Republic Health Insurance Fund, in order to justify financial resources, requires a written opinion from the Ministry of Health, would really mean that they get that response as soon as possible, so that they can communicate with the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I don't want to burden you with a lot of trouble. You're probably familiar with a lot of people. They sent several memos, which they sent to the Ministry, in communication with the Republic Fund. You're probably aware that in the field, both in Backo Topoli and elsewhere, there are situations where, for example, gynecological services work in villages, so there are not enough doctors. There are huge problems, which as a woman I must point out, in the health care services of women. In Backo Topoli, specifically because of the gynecologist's exit in five populated places outside of Backa Topola, but also in large cities such as Zrenjanin, from which I come. Women have the opportunity to visit one single institution, all women from Banat County, where there are huge crowds, where there are five doctors. Communication is inadequate between hygienic, communication between various actors is such that patients themselves have to wait until they get an appointment and then get to the doctor, and on foot walk their wipes and their findings. It's just not solved, and I think it's scary today in the 21st century, because it's probably not even about money, because in Zrenjanin, for example, it's the Hygiene Institute across the street from the women's counseling center. I think medical technicians or nurses could do it instead of patients, instead of the patient walking her swab into the bag, taking the directions to the Hygiene Institute, coming back, waiting for order, going to the doctor's office and then walking her instructions. Not to mention simply telling patients that certain services don't work at the Hygiene Institute, that you have to pay for it, that same swab you walk to some private facility or lab. It will allow me to use the remaining time to mention a little of the problems in Kanjiza and ask a question you don't have to answer now, but I asked that two weeks ago here in the Serbian Parliament, so I haven't received a written answer yet. As for Kanjiža, there are many problems in the Kanjiža Health House, but one of the biggest problems is, on the one hand, it is a positive thing, close to the border with Hungary and Horgos. It is precisely because of the border crossing towards Hungary, with Horgos in the summer period that about three million people cross here, and it is increasing to a large extent the volume of work and the consumption of sanity material. It is increasingly common that diagnostic, laboratory, specialist, for example gynological services residents of district municipalities receive in the House of Health Kanjiž, which increases the cost of material. Kanjiza has basic financial difficulties precisely because of this late payment of debt from the Republic Health Insurance Fund, so the pharmacy does not make a margin, and we all know that the costs of business, wages, travel expenses, etc. They have to settle. The Kanjiža Health House has for years an unfavourable framework for contracted means for sanitary and medical material. For a while now, they've been unable to obtain sanitary and medical material. They also argue that they have a problem with the emergency services and sanitary transport. They just miss the drivers. They have a lack of doctors. It's a similar situation here as Bačka Topoli, since it's a great territory of the municipality. The home of health covers 11 settlements in this municipality up to 35 kilometers from Kanjiža, so organising work for them is not easy and is a big problem. For more than 35 years, the Kanjiz Health House has not obtained an X-ray machine. Not to mention that dental equipment is very amortized and that there are terrains in the Kanjiz municipality, numerous salashi without roads. It's very difficult to get into the field here in an emergency. What's freshest and what happened a day ago, two in Kanjija, is that the huge dissatisfaction of the people of Horgosh, where night duty is lifted. I'll try and figure it out soon. First of all, I'd like to thank you and say that your associates are extremely cooperative. We hope that at least some of these proposed problems will be resolved jointly in the near future. The question I've raised here is about out-of-body fertilization and a huge problem of 500-600 couples, as it says in the paper, some of whom have been waiting since May and some of them since summer this year. I don't want to comment on the statements made by the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, because, as we've been informed from the media, he resigned, but he has to pay attention to the fact that he can't make easy statements, that these people have papers, when they don't apply, when their hormones are valid for six months, and wipes for three months. So to consider that these couples are the only chance they can get their offspring. It is truly grateful that in this country since 2006, free attempts at out-of-body fertilisation have been free, but many things have not been resolved yet. We do not prove that we really advocate balanced regional development if it does not matter whether couples who go to out-of-body fertilisation live in Belgrade, Jagodina, Pancheva or elsewhere or whether pregnant women, who are not so lucky to carry out a healthy pregnancy, do not care whether they live in Belgrade, so they receive full pay or elsewhere. I thank you again for your attention, and I really hope that we can solve at least some of these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6541	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6542	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, this Law on Amendments to the Three Laws, if we were to say well-mean, they, first of all, come down to trying to make more economically rational tasks of the Ministry of Education, that is, the health system of Serbia, to which these decisions apply, which is commendable, however, some of these decisions, we discussed at the Health Committee, concern certain centralisation of the system in general. The key, of course, is in the proposal for a law on the obligation of health institutions to large drugstores, based on the purchase of drugs and medical materials and to convert imports into public debt of the Republic of Serbia. In other words, the minister found a 13 billion-dollar debt, or over 100m euros in unpaid debt, threatening to actually tear down the entire health system, as drug and equipment manufacturers no longer have the means to produce and deliver drugs, as huge debts are against them. They just didn't get paid for what they were doing. I'd repeat what I said back then. I know it's not the Ministry of Health's ingenuity, but at least some sampling system should have seen some medical institutions do this kind of debt. It is possible that in some institutions these debts have been created because someone has actually invested significant material resources, greater than they were approved, in better functioning of the system, in some purchases. There are possibilities of riding and more serious things. I'm not asking for a fight against corruption in the health system, at least not right now and in this way. However, we must have some answer that such an enormous debt has now become a public debt, i.e. becoming a debt to all Serbian citizens. Now we all need to bear the costs of this important and sensitive system, such as the health system. Personally, I see no other solution than what you have suggested, which is that it is becoming a public debt, but it is really becoming a problem that whoever, in particular, makes a debt or an individual, has become a liability to the shoulders of the state, or to the shoulders of all citizens of the Serbian state, even though the largest number of these citizens are neither familiar with it nor responsible for it. I'd like some concrete answers to the question, even if it's the Ministry of Health, to see how those debts came to be. It's not supposed to be a six-month investigation, but let's see how some of those debts came into existence. The solutions are if I can say triple. It used to be said, when I was a young palitative solution, as fire-fighting solutions, which must save the system. Three decisions were practically made here. One decision concerns the way employees are, above all, overworked in health care. The second is about getting drugs and the third is about a functioning system in general, and I'm going to say something about it. Since this is a united debate, in a law proposing additions to the Health Protection Act, a new radical solution is proposed here, which is to be centralised procurement. Obviously, it is now a reaction to this debt, since the institutions have proved to be irresponsible and individuals who run those institutions. Although examples of several European countries, large and economically developed countries that have such a system are highlighted here, it is certain that this system also has its weaknesses, which is likely to be slower and three times slower, but they allow them to be cheaper because they are suddenly ordered more, so they can get a much better economic price than when the petty purchases are uninterrupted. The main problem here is that one administration is being created that, under the bill of this law, is related to the Ministry of Health. Professor and Minister Dejanovic said there are other solutions. Although the subject is finished my question is whether or not a principle which I think is not bad in our health system, although it is criticised by many doctors and healthcare professionals, which is that the Health Fund and the Ministry are separated. In theory, one should operate on economic principles, and the Ministry should run a health policy, etc. We're now making a little so-called hybrid in which that administration will be with the Ministry itself. Perhaps the better solution was to be with the Fund, to preserve certain independence. Here are to give all the details that on the proposal of the Minister the Director is elected for how many years, which are the scope of the work etc. Here, in these changes, it's pretty specific what this new administration is going to look like. We don't have the number of employees and we're getting a new body. That's not too big if I'm not 21 people. It's not some bureaucratic apparatus to grow now, but we're going between centralization and decentralisation. The decentralisation of procurement did not produce good results, we are now centralizing it, so afterwards it can be shown that it is slow, a trom system although it is referred to experts, which should define these procurements. What's important here is the way the drugs are supplied. It has also been more precisely defined and it has been precisely defined as how the human health system plan in Serbia is being organised. I have to say, and if it's clear to all of us that there are extra employees, that to me as someone who's worked in education for so many years, Col. Dejanovic, too, it's only logical for people to choose the way he's always been after the war, the competitions. To me, it's the way virtual institutions receive with very subjective criteria. I must say, since I am here as a member of the People's Parliament, forgive the public secret in Serbia that there is a tariff in most health institutions to be paid to the director, to the headmaster to hire a nurse, a doctor. It's a complete public secret. Excuse me, but we need to tell the truth about what we have. In the system of competition, it would be much clearer. Then grades are evaluated, papers that were written during the course of the study, even scientific papers. Why don't we return the competition system in which the best will still be chosen, so this system of corruption where the director receives funds and then receives a candidate, once, because it's certainly a clearer system in which you see what qualifications you've received. Of course, there will be more candidates because there are a lot of unemployed people of all levels of health education. So I think until we introduce this system by which we have limited the number of people, but the main weakness of that system remains, which is that the director receives whoever he wants. It's interesting to define here that the Ministry will define the personnel plan. I'd appreciate it if the Ministry would show us in some reasonable time what all the criteria would be. As we've seen here, there's a question of the criteria not only of the equipment, but of who's the worker, who's the employee, what are the needs, etc. It is possible that the Ministry will have an excellent introduction but that personnel picture will have to show the elements on which to rest. I don't think anything important is going to change from what we have, but whether it's going to intervene somewhere, whether there's a need for some new frame. The public and the minister themselves opened the price of mammographers and examinations. Obviously, at some point, it takes some expert more somewhere, so we need to improve that system. In general, in this first reporting, I want to say that these are measures that are probably due not only to huge debt, but also to the fact that if something in the system doesn't change, procurement, the way the drugs are approved and put on the list and how the employment of people in institutions is openly said, our system will collapse. It's a system with over 100,000 employees and unfortunately many people are not aware of it. They only become aware when they get sick or when someone close to them gets sick. It is a system of key importance for the functioning of a society. I would think that this shows that something in our health system as a whole is not good, when we have to go back to a system where there are few very competent people working in some places, it's the Ministry of Health, the Public Procurement Administration, how to put the drug on the list, and finally the humane image in Serbia's health care. It practically returns and centralizes again. We can once have a good minister, a capable minister who works, and I hope everyone will be in the interest of Serbian citizens from now on. Unfortunately, there is great power and power in another situation where someone can use it for political promotion, for party promotion. We've all seen it, and all the parties can blame themselves in this situation or that situation for doing so. I don't think that's how it's gonna work. I'm just warning you it's a possible consequence. So it's my opinion that these changes that are now being extorted show that something fundamental needs to be changed in our health system. I have to say that there's not much of a proposal, because it's too big a topic for one man, but obviously we have to go into some changes, because if we've come into a situation that we've given rights and responsibilities to the health care institutions themselves, clinical centres where respectable people work with scientific biographies, and they spend more money than they're allowed, they hire more people than they need. I have to ask a question about what's going on with our health system, not doubting the expertise of these people. I didn't ask that question, if they were competent. They must be competent, but what it is, what's going on with our company. This is a question for all of us. Wherever we turn, we've got some kind of crash. I have to say one very painful feeling, that these people who run these health institutions are often the most respected of our doctors. How is this possible to pass past them, that they approve of funds that are not allowed, hire people that are not to be employed, allow people to be admitted in these institutions in a way that is not legal or moral? For me, it's one question that we can't solve here right now. What needs to be changed slowly in that system to bring it to one level to be significantly better than it is now? For the very end, I am completely fascinated, don't be angry with me, someone has to be responsible for the 100m euros not charged. I'm really interested in how we got to that? I'm not saying that, like in Japan, you have to perform harikiri when there's a car accident, but I really have to ask a political question of responsibility. We had one minister, we had another minister. Neither of them had any answer, so now they will answer us, how did they tolerate the debt? Don't let them tell me the Fund did it without the Ministry having anything. That's not an answer. We also see that the Director of the Fund said goodbye and said goodbye – goodbye, I worked phenomenally. Watch out, phenomenal radio, there's over 100 million debts left. Where's the responsibility problem for you as a ministry and as a professor, colleague, to call for some responsibility? You're going to the inspection facility. I'm glad about that. I hear you're coming in the back door, unannounced coming in. Very well, to see what it looks like, though I believe you know that system perfectly and without it. But I'm really interested in how can people who have led to this go from one function to another? I won't name anyone, but one of those people who, however, was a very short minister, got a new position in power. I'm sorry, but he can't anymore, because he doesn't even have to be himself, but he has some kind of, if I may say so, it's called command responsibility in the military. So some responsibility must have been given to the one who ran one system. How has it come to this that at this point all Serbian citizens will now have to pay more than 100m euros because they are not paid at all to those who produce drugs and medical equipment, they are generally not paid what they delivered? We have become, and this is my last remark, a country without concrete responsibility. No one's guilty of anything. When they finish their mandate, they say, "I've been doing great, I've done great, I've done good-bye." That's not true. Someone was doing good, and someone was doing bad. There are people in our country who do good, and there are people who do bad. We can't make an average here, so say - it's good, the system works, people get treated, there's capable doctors, there's sacrifice of people, nurses, medical technicians. That's no answer. Not to repeat, for the very end, I am interested in the question – are you going to do some analysis of how these debts occurred and will someone be called to account, starting with the previous two health ministers, did they know this, when this debt was made and how this debt came to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6543	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6544	Dear President, dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to begin by who knows which time I say that the DS has never had the honour of being responsible for the Ministry of Health and I will begin with that fact. What I want to inform you at the very beginning is that DS and MPs of the DS and our parliamentary club will always support the government's reform moves and reform moves at the Ministry of Health. Personally, I want to tell you that in particular these amendments to the law are small, that the existing Health Protection and Health Insurance Act is a very old law, that mostly health ministers who came after 2000 only made up a little bit of that Health Insurance and Health Insurance Act, from situation to situation, and they haven't changed anything in detail in it. The Minister's on her way. I hope that this work will be deepened and that we will go deeper into the reforms of the health system. What I mean is, the opinion of the DS Parliament Club is that this law is very old, that it is conservative, that it does not respect the needs of Serbian citizens, that it does not respect the needs of Serbian health workers. I call on the Minister of Health to be brave enough to complete a new bill on health care and health insurance. I said that if this is not the case in some of the next elections, the DS will seek responsibility at the Ministry of Health and enter into very painful reforms, which are necessary for our health care system. I'll point out we still don't have regulated private health care. Our private health is neither in heaven nor on earth. We have no regulated or used military health care, which is untapped, since the military's capacities were built for a large army of SFRY, that in military hospitals we have a very good place, as far as doctors and nurses are concerned, we have good rooms of military hospitals, but unfortunately, these military hospitals stand empty, used 40, maximum 50%, while on the other hand you have clinical centres and health centres across Serbia that are overcrowded and cry for a slightly larger space. What I still want to tell you is that the DS will insist on more transparent monitoring of the work of doctors in the hospital itself and in some 30 per cent work outside of its institution, because as chairman of the board, I also draw attention to ministers, but I draw more attention to the citizens of Serbia. Personally, I want to stand up for the interests of Serbian citizens as president of the Health and Family Committee on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, because Serbian citizens are faced with a lot of problems when they get sick and when they enter the health care system, from being met at the hospital door by some cleaning women or some nurses who direct patients to private doctor offices, where these same doctors who work at the Clinical Centre or work in health centres, during their working hours and examine patients in their private offices. In these private offices, they also take money for operations, which they should not work in the republican institution itself, the state institution, but they do so in their private offices and the law cannot attach them. I think we need to treat the citizens more clearly and honestly. The health care system has long been the guardian of social peace in the country. We have good doctors, but health care, unfortunately, has entered one percent of corruption, because for years nothing clear has been specified by the laws, and when you have no clear control, when you have no clear transparency, there are certainly mistakes like now that doctors send you and private offices to a number of health institutions, numerous centres make artificial waiting lists, and when someone is sick, when a child is sick, when a doctor tells him – come to me privately, the conditions are better than they are in a state hospital, certainly because of the health of their child will not save money. That money will take him away from his mouth to take him to the doctor. I think these are irregularities that need to be corrected. I'll always support this with examples. Is it normal to keep saying that until the director of the Clinical Center in Nis has been replaced, you have 47 abortions in a gynological clinic within a year, and that during the same period of time in private offices, you have 5,000 abortions who have worked the same doctors who work in state hospitals and working hours when they were supposed to be in the workplace, not to work privately and to be unsuitably rich and to unsuitably poor Serbian citizens? The Democratic Party first has citizens of our country and we believe that health care must be worthy of that citizen and be free, most importantly. This is about the DS as a social democratic orientation, the most important priority of our organization, and I think you do, too. You've started well, and as long as you're doing well, you have absolutely my personal support and support of the DS. Our mouths are full of childcare, our mouths are full of taking care of women, especially pregnant women. We'll always say, every political organization will say that the health care system must be free of charge for them. But I'm telling you it's not. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear in article 68 that everyone has the right to protect their physical and mental health. Children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven and the old are receiving health care from public incomes, unless they are otherwise realised. Now I ask you, we think that our pregnant women are protected by law and that they can normally have all the benefits of our health system. I'll tell you that's not the case, that women and children of farmers, privates who don't pay contributions to health insurance, they don't have health insurance. Then pregnant women and those children of farmers and small entrepreneurs, businessmen, remain unprotected. So it's not true that this country has provided an equal health care system for all women and children. I call on you to change the law and it is clear in the law that all pregnant women, in addition to what they should have, as proposed by PUPS, have 100% paid wages, that they must have, more importantly, health insurance, that they unpaidly monitor their pregnancy, that they can unpaidly treat their children, which is not the case with these two categories of our inhabitants. Where's our health care going? I don't know. What are we hoping for? A colleague, Korać, announced one fact that I first opened and asked for responsibility. Unlike him, I seek responsibility for individuals who are protected as white bears, and it seems to me they come from earlier managements, from the Ministry of Health. What I'm saying is that I support centralization of public procurement in the health sector. I think there's been a lot of embezzlement in the past, and I don't think we should be deaf about someone spending it, borrowing this country for 13.5 billion dinars and nothing to anyone. We've turned this into a public debt, we've put our children in charge, we've put our grandchildren in charge, and we're moving on. I ask you - who has tasked Serbian citizens in the health sector? I invite Mr. Vukic, and I invite Mr. Dacic, I have repeatedly invited them, but I am taking the opportunity to examine corruption in the health care system and to examine these problems that I now state. It is impossible for you to centralize these procurements, because it has now occurred to you, but you have been amazed by the way the Ministry of Health has functioned so far, you have been startled by the unintentional, non-domestic spending of money on Serbian citizens and then you have centralized it. If I were in your situation right now, and if I were a health minister, I would do the same, and that's why I'm giving you that support, because many of the directors of the health system, the former management of the health ministry, were misbehaved, they didn't take care of the citizens of Serbia, they were purposelessly spending their resources, they were buying expensive machines that weren't in the plan and the program, they were hiring a nonmedical chamber, so they buried a clinic center in Nis with more than 2,000 nonmedical personnel. They were always hired before the elections, and I won't tell you which parties they came from, how they came up with some percentages to cross the censorship. I'm looking for a responsibility. I want this legally examined. The Democratic Party supports the fight against corruption, but does not support a selective fight against corruption. Mr. Vucicou, get into the sectors run by your coalition partners, see if there was any corruption or not. Certainly, the 13.5 billion dinar debt in the health sector was not made by extraterrestrials, but by some arrogant and incompetent directors, who must be mentioned, why they did it. On this subject I will draw your attention to another topic, how our health system works. I receive many letters from our fellow citizens. This is a letter from Mr. M.J. who's been trying to come in line for two years to be operated on by cataracts. Is it natural that he has to get to a doctor 11 times and that 11 times the different reasons for refusing again, just in order to focus on the private office of a certain professor, so that a certain professor can take the money? Dear Minister, I'm telling you I will fight you, if we have a health corruption fighter in you, the DS will back you up. We need to root out this evil that's created in the health care system, which we're all hiding, because maybe it's someone in our ranks, because it might be some important professor. I'll always put a patient first. The patient must not be irritable this way in the healthcare system right now. That is why a new health care and health insurance law is needed. The next example is cancer patients. The patient's biopsy I took was June 25th, and the patient's name is S.J. - The tumor door on the right. The pathology report came in 14.11. I'm asking you, is it normal that after five months, a pathological test of this patient's tumor process will arrive? (President: I'm sorry to interrupt, but I hope you have the permission of these people to present this kind of information? ) I want to ask – do I have permission to ask for responsibility, because the question is whether this patient is alive, only because of the haughtiness of doctors who are not... (President: I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. Bringing out private and personal data, which enters this deep into the privacy of each of those people you mention, if you have their authority to present those data, I don't mind. I just want to clear this up, because that can hurt these people's dignity. That's all I intervened for. ) President, every memo has been appointed to my name and name, where they ask for help and support. I pray to the G17 Plus gentlemen, though, perhaps from the U.R.S., I don't even know what your name is right now, so you don't throw it out of my place. President, please, by chance, if I continue to notice that I'm being distracted by my work, you'll warn them. What I'm trying to say is the care of oncology patients. We still have a major problem in Serbia with treating patients with malignant tumours. In Nis, there's a meeting in Novi Sad for air therapy, you know, we've been working on a committee on that subject for two to three months. A month to a month and a half are waiting for pathological diagnosis. I'm telling you with responsibility that there's no way to cure a patient, if the pathological biopsy you take from a tumor is waiting more than a month and a half, and if after that, after a surgical treatment waits two and a half months for radiation, my dears, we can talk all great in the O.R., criticize the minister, criticize me, but those patients who wait this long, are sentenced to death. Do I insult anyone now because I'm telling the truth, and I'll always tell the truth. Our system of fighting oncology diseases, the fight against tumours in Serbia, is a disaster. The waiting lists are again made artificially, in order to push someone over the line, so that the health corruption will again be the main guide, how to get to that desired place, how to get to the turn for air therapy. What I also want to open up as a topic, which is not clearly regulated, and the previous assembly of parliament has been doing, is caring about terminal patients, caring about people who have practically exhausted all possible medical treatments, who are left to themselves, by mistake of the doctor or by not coming in time, and you have a lot of patients that can't be helped by the doctor. In Serbia, there is still no such palitative centres in one dignified way. And in the last parliament, I was talking, and now I'm calling on you that, I can't, the gerontological centres that are foreseen by law, the senior management of the Ministry of Health, be centres where these palitative patients are going to be, that the paliatable is being executed. There work one or two doctors, there doing several nurses who may be able to change a diaper to an old citizen of ours, but they can't care about those patients who have metastases on their lungs, on their brains, who are immobilized and who have nonstop pains, who bleed, who have infections. I call upon you to fight alongside the struggle for the youngest population, for the oldest, and for these diseases from which everyone turns their heads. Every democratic society needs care for these patients as well. Each European country takes care of itself. Gerontological centers can't be where these patients will be treated. To slowly bring the end. What urgently do we have to do to make this system work? By changing this bill of yours, you've scratched a little bit on the surface of the health care system. That's good, and we'll back it up. We also supported this on the Health and Family Committee, where the DS MPs gave the quorum, where the ruling coalition did not provide quorum for work or decision-making. I'm proud to have given the quorum for work and I'm proud to have given the voting quorum, because I think that centralised of these things is good at the moment when chaos is in the health system. What we have to do is, I repeat, one new law. This law is old and more than 20 years old is on stage. Anyone who came from the ministers, like when a director comes to any company, he starts to move a little bit and then stops. I urge you to really do a new health insurance law and a new health care law. What you predicted was that in some future period, after a new year, we go in, and that's the protection of patients' rights. It is something that many have turned their heads, of the law, which is the law that puts Serbian citizens first, puts the patient first, and it is very important that the law is passed as soon as possible in the Serbian Parliament. The proposed law is now a public debate, the DS will also support. What we're asking you to do is also the law on doctors. We need to make a law on the protection of patients' rights, and we also need to take care of doctors, nurses, who demand to be in the service of a state-run person, to be protected because they have a lot of problems. I think it's the same way out of this situation. Finally, I would like to commend some of the things you have done, and as far as the southeast of Serbia is concerned, since many ministers in this government are turning their heads from the southeast, which is that you have seen more seriously than earlier ministers the needs of southeast Serbia and particularly large hospitals on this field. Building a new heart surgery center is something that's good and something we welcome. What's very important is that after more than 20 years, thanks to the Ministry of Health, we built a boiler room, and that system at the clinical center is good. All that's good we'll praise, but what's bad, we'll certainly criticize. I will bring an end, a respected professor, a respected minister, you from the DS parliamentary club, unlike other ministers, to have support because you are doing reform things, because for now you are doing well, but that support will only last for as long as you do reform things and as long as you work in the interests of Serbian citizens. I thank you and invite you to work together in the next phases in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6545	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6546	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure - violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I thank you, Mr. President, for reacting at the right time, but only after we started yelling at how well a colleague noticed. I can't help it when basic human rights are being violated by people in Serbia. Indeed, if we have come to an extent that a doctor who does not understand the confidentiality between a patient and a doctor defends the health system, then we do not seem to have gotten very far. One of the basic postulates of the medical profession is keeping secrets. Reading someone's name with an oncological diagnosis and pathological findings in front of the entire public of Serbia is a difficult violation of the person's human dignity, even if you have her permission. It's totally inadmissible for every serious doctor. I worked for 20 years in health care, and I couldn't imagine sharing a problem or a diagnosis with my family. I think it's totally inadmissible to bring such things to the public, and it's a good thing you've responded to that. I want to take advantage of the opportunity, what my colleague tried to transfer to previous health staff, as he said, I would like the minister to say when these debts were made in the Health Fund, because I ran the Health Committee from 2007 to 2008, and how much I remember the Republic Fund's reports back then, there was almost no debt in health. When did they come into existence? Is that during the period when responsibility over the Health Fund took over just the party of colleagues who spoke before me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6547	On account of what you said, that's why I asked Dr. Milisavljevic if he has the permission of people? At that point, we cannot treat it, I agree with you as a man, but in a political sense, Dr. Milisavljevic has the right if he has the consent of people who want to draw attention to their difficult situation in this way, as is happening in the media. You know there's a situation in the media that certain people are looking for help because of their difficult health conditions and they have the right to do it that way. I would invite everyone not to take these things out to the public, because I think that in some way affects their environment, which they may not have been aware of at the moment they gave consent. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6548	Art. 106th and 107th. I thank you for this intervention. You said very important things, but I think everyone here forgets that it's not just a matter of doctor's secret relations, of the need for the public to know. We have a very serious and very strict personal data protection law that formally regulates how consent is given and when personal data can be used. We have a trustee for that thing. This topic is very public. I respect the public's need to talk about open issues. With most of what the DS MP was talking about, I agree, but I think this is a very negative precedent in the work of the National Assembly and we have to do everything we can to avoid it in the future. I don't think Mr. Milisavljevic had any bad intentions, I think his intention was noble, but I ask you to take care of all the laws this country has.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6549	Unfortunately, I can only react after an event has happened. I can't react preventively, because I don't know what any of the MPs will say. You saw that I had an intervention at that moment. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6550	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Also, I'm advertising art. 106th and 107th. As a member of the Health Committee, I don't think you can get over this. This is a violation of the Ethics Code of Doctors. Professor Milisavljevic, although he received a letter complaining of a procedure, had him forward it himself, read and may react, but not to publicly announce it before the million-dollar auditorium. Please, we have a subcommittee on the Health Committee that solves people's problems that eventually arise about some of their problems. In this case, this is a criminal responsibility, it's no longer moral, it's not political. I think this is the criminal responsibility of Professor Milisavljevic, publishing the name and last name of the patient who called and asked for help. That's one thing. Secondly, I think that article 106 has also been broken, because we need to talk about the subject, and this wasn't a topic. The topic was public procurement in health, not other problems. So, I'd like to ask you to raise yourself to a higher level of one of these behaviors. Secondly, the political thing, Mr. Milisavljevic forgets who led this country for 12 years. The Democratic Party led this country. You were the main factor, the political factor in the country, regardless of what the health minister was from the coalition partners. Now you find yourself criticizing. Where were you for 12 years? I was also an MP with you in the last term, and I didn't hear you criticise the health system the way you're criticizing him now, and he is subject to criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6551	Thank you. The word is made by MP Predrag Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6552	I'm advertising Article 27. I just want to take this opportunity without asking to vote on the injury, because you did intervene, but after that, when you got a clear recognition of the MPs that he had no authority and that he also had a letter which rests on the assumption that he was studying at a time when there was ethics at that university and when she was particularly learning as an object and that she knew what the laws were and would not lead to danger and abuse. What does it matter which political party, which one is in power? The key is, I don't mean to derail with you, I'm just saying that it's much more important that the Assembly takes care of the basic rights of citizens, especially if the Assembly, no matter where they call it, has further regulated the laws and the President of the Assembly has warned the MPs. Once again, I want to say that we as a Assembly, no matter what parliamentary group we belong to, this is the kind of thing we always have to condemn, as we commended today for speaking against piracy. National MP Vesenovic deliberately did not state the exact name of one site, so the president allowed me to come forward and praise it, because he did not want to list citizens who follow to participate in the piracy. And also, as this was positive, this is an example, I don't believe that the MP was aware when he entered the heat of controversy into this kind of data delivery, but we all have to respond, independently of an individual example, that this is never repeated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6553	The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6554	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I absolutely don't want to deny what I said. I stand still behind it and I stand very proudly behind it because I have made clear the problems of those people to you, to their pleas, to their cry, their lives are threatened. We have been arguing in this people's congregation for years who will outsmart whom, who will break any member of the law. I'm telling you, their human lives are in danger. As a doctor in this congregation, you will always hear me in the protection of their rights, in the protection of their lives. My face is clean and I won't be ashamed of why I said this. I am proud to open topics that have always been taboo topics for many MPs, for many politicians. I'm fighting for these people. I absolutely don't see a reason why when someone comes to you and someone tells you – Dushan, fight there for us – I will fight for these citizens of Serbia. You can prosecute me for it, but I'm going to fight, because that patient has been wandering from pathologist to operator for six months, and his life has been at risk for six months. There's no stronger law than the law of life. You can outwit me, I'm a medical professor, I'm not a law professor, but I know ethics and I know how to fight for life, since I'm dealing with head and neck tumor surgery, you can outsmart me today and say different things, but I'm telling you that I absolutely had no intention of breaking any law. All I wanted was for this assembly to hear the voice of an ordinary citizen, who banged his head in the Serbian health system, who banged his head in our country and who, unfortunately, has a great chance of losing his life in this fight with some major legal Mages who have criticised me here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6555	It was not the intention that, at least I could speak for myself, in any way we were outwitting you or in any way doubting your wish to point out in a positive way what you wanted to point out. But as the lawyers say, ignorance doesn't justify it. As a member of parliament, you have no right to break the law, whether it is done in good or bad terms. The violation of the law is inadmissible and as MPs, we have a greater responsibility to comply fully with the law and, of course, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you and all other colleagues that, precisely because of the dignity of the people we talked about, we do not now enter a further set of polemics and debates, because I think the point that we all wanted to point out is fully understood, to go back to the debate, and all the other colleagues I pray that we no longer speak of human dignity to some of the people who have certain health problems. Can I count on our agreement, Mr. Markovic? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6556	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, from my current participation in the debate, I need to remind you that without personnel, equipment and space, we cannot talk about the functioning of health care. As for the issues asked by Elvira Kovac, I would just like to say that the Ministry of Health is indeed bound by the law to adopt a staff plan, but the plans are delivered to the Institute of Public Health by the directors of the institutions, taking into account the health needs of each environment. That's why patterns really shouldn't exist. Of course, plans are changing, and we have a need at Serbia's level to increase the number of personnel, but absolutely especially in health homes and in all other health institutions. However, funds must be provided. There's a huge number of very justified demands. Because of the financial situation in which the country is, we don't get the consent of the finance ministry. Simply, we must remind once again that 6% of GDP is allocated to health care, and that is the 250 famous euros, where the salaries of health employees are included, the amount that is so small that only Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina are somewhat lower. Even in the region and in all other countries, there are incomparably greater health gaps. When it comes to equipment, I must say that the budget of the Vojvodina is actually the source of resources for all questions on these issues. When it comes to walking patients and making individuals sick, I wish it wasn't mass, it was individual. Each director of the organisational unit is responsible for organising a job, having responsibility and inspection services doing their job, but the founder, also, in addition to having founding rights, has an obligation to oversee the actual organisation of work. This practically means that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the congregations of municipalities and cities also have great obligations, and according to the questions, findings, and dilemmas that you have. About the issue of artificial insemination, we're going to have a conversation, it's not about this law, so we'll talk about it later. I think that the MP, Professor Korać, was actually talking about essential topics, but I need to say that, in meeting the debate on amendments, the reason for the missing funds can certainly be sought in a certain degree of the composure of certain managers. We have the fact that the exact same hospitals, a very similar profile, had a completely different result. So the number of employees similar, the number of examinations similar, one hospital never exceeded the text of a contract that exists between the Republic Institute and the institution, and the other one did it continuously. I don't mean to be specific right now, but it may be a subject, especially when your parliamentary issues are on the agenda. What is a fact, it is that missing resources in health care and the need to tighten financial discipline, when separations in the Republic Health Insurance Fund are reality and what we must insist on all of us who want health care to work better, is one of the realities. I'll just give you some information. You asked -- since when did the debts begin? Since 2009. By 2009, health care had done a solid job, as financial discipline in terms of the allocation of health contributions was better. Now I'm going to give you the information relating to last year, this year to the ninth month. Legal entities owe on behalf of unpaid contributions 84 billion and 700 billion and some dinars, entrepreneurs owe 27 billion, farmers owe 27 billion, and all use health care. So the reason for such a bad position is actually one complete financial indiscipline. I sincerely hope that within all the measures that we intend to take together, we will go from ourselves, if you want to as health insurance users. Did each of us really use health care and make a contribution? We're going to have to be a little more realistic, because there's a lot of those wonderful stories about how wonderful it is for health care to be better organized. I'm not running away from having disorganization, but until as long as we have representatives of economic operators who get rewards for the results achieved, the results in the economy, and the employees haven't paid health contributions, we're going to have a situation like this. Of course, the power of MPs is more than great when it comes to this fundamental problem, that we have a slightly more realistic relationship between financial opportunities and the need to better implement health services and Serbia's health care. I would also like to say that it's completely well-founded to talk about extremely serious diseases and patients and, unfortunately, poor parameters in Serbia when it comes to mortality and also from cancer. The reason at least experts see it in a completely real situation. Unfortunately, we find malignancies later than in other countries, including in the region. We must therefore screening techniques, early detection techniques of otherwise treatable malignancies, do everything to raise the level of health care. That is why, and through the bill, we went with the extension of the rights for the category of each Serbian citizen, regardless of whether he is insured or not, when it comes to screening techniques. I just wanted to say, inspired by the participation in Professor Korac's questions and loud thinking, that the non-payment of contributions is proposed by existing changes, i.e. changes and additions to the Criminal Code, to be a criminal offence. So, non-payment of contributions, if it really is a crime, then you will have much more reason to strongly criticise and most responsible in health institutions and the Ministry of Health and the Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-05-0.u6557	Thank you. Since it's 6:00 p.m., we're closing today's work and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
