ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran Bojanić, Maja Gojković, Milanka Karic, Aleksandra Djurović, Marko Pavle, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, Dusan Bajatović, Vesna Stepić and Dragana Mijatov. In addition to the meeting of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was called upon to request 93 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 48(3) The Law on the National Assembly has been sent to you a request for the maintenance of the Seventh Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda, contained in that request. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly, the next Dn e n i d 1 was determined. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Records, which was submitted by a group of 61 MPs; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the law on non-party proceedings, which was submitted by a group of 61 MPs. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, which found that by taking over the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia by National MP Dr Jorvanka Tabaković, on 6 August 2012, the case under Article 88 paragraph 5) of the Law on the selection of MPs, under which the taking over of the post incompatible with the position of MP, ceases the mandate under the law. For these reasons, the Committee requires that the National Assembly determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88(1) of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased, before the time to be elected, to the MP Dr Jorvanka Tabaković, on the day of taking over a function incompatible with the function of the MP. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Until now, in accordance with Article 39(3), powers of authorised representatives have arrived. New Serbia's parliamentary group will be represented by MP Dubravka Filipovski, Bojan Djuric will be the representative of the Liberal-Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Mirna Kosanovic will represent the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia will be MP Milica Radovic and the representative is MP Vladimir Cvian. National MP Vladimir Cvian, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft Law amending the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on non-parony proceedings. Does MP Vladimir Cvian want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Does anyone have a voting problem? Did you have any trouble voting? I conclude the vote and declare that 121 MPs voted in favour, there were no objections, no abstentions, no 47 votes, out of 169 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm sorry, we have a simple majority. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We are opening a joint principled search on the draft law amending the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on Non-Parking Procedure. I would like to inform you that the total time of the debate is five hours in principle for the parliamentary groups. Is there any suggestion that time lasts longer? No, I don't. I'd like some attention, dear colleagues. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party – nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the group of the United Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of the Hungarians – six minutes, the six minutes, the group of the six minutes of the group of the people and six minutes sent by the National Party – the group – the six minutes, the group of the National Party and six minutes of the group of the group of the Bulgarians – and six, the group – the group of the people and six minutes, and six minutes of the group of the group of the Bulgarians of the people – the people – the group of the group of the people and six, and six, the people – the group of the people – the group of the six, the group of the people – the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the people – the group of the group of the people – the group of the group of the people of the people of the people – the people – the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people – the people of the people – the people of the people – the people of the people – the people of the people – the people – the people of the people of the people of the people of the people – the people – the people – the people – the group of the group of the group of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people – the people – the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people – the people of the people – the people – the people – the people – the According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Does the proposing representative, MP Vladimir Cvian, want a word? (Bojan Djuric, from the post: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1227	Mr. Stefanovic, I think it is important that we intervene in these first minutes of our autumn session, regardless of the extraordinary session. You, when you elected president of parliament, as well as your ruling coalition, the new ruling coalition, said you would behave differently, that the government would treat parliament more responsibly than the previous government did. In the meantime, for tomorrow at 4:00 p.m., you scheduled to ask the government a question, last Thursday of the month, and I'm suggesting that you've injured Article 205. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in paragraph 2, that the Government will inform the National Assembly in writing of which members of the Government cannot attend the National Assembly session at which the Government is asked parliamentary questions no later than three days before the day specified in the position of the first member. Meanwhile, MPs and MPs have not received any notice from the government of the Republic of Serbia that members of the government, or which ministers are eventually prevented from attending tomorrow's question. The opposition political parties, and above all, LDP, have no intention of participating in the circus tomorrow, unless we know which ministers will be here, or if the situation is repeated, that only a few members of the government are present. Please let us know what kind of government will be here tomorrow so we can prepare to ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1228	I'm glad to be able to inform you that I'm expecting the presence of all members of the government. That is why no notice has come that some of the members of the government will not be able to be present, as I expect everyone, led by the Prime Minister, to come to this house. That's my belief from the Prime Minister himself. I hope that the MPs will also show the same interest, and that, I say, I propose to all my fellow Members from all MPs, that the National Assembly also show interest in achieving this right, but I agree with you that we could inform you that all members of the government will be present at tomorrow's session according to what we have. Mr. Cvian, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have determined that we will have a united debate that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a simple majority is sufficient, in a brief statement, to present what the idea of these two laws we have proposed, which the SNS and its MPs have proposed. So we have a law on amendments to the Law on Public Records and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Non-Parking Procedures. As for the law on extraparnical proceedings, in the shortest case, I will remind you that in the country of Serbia according to official data obtained from the UNHCR, during a study several years ago, there are 6,750 people who are not enrolled in the birth certificates. In most cases there are statistics on the faces of Roma nationality, but we will agree that there are certainly many people and other members, in the extreme line and Serbs who are not included in the parent books, because you know how it happens - someone is born in winter in a mountainous remote area, in a house where parents are probably a little weaker property, perhaps a little weaker education, in spring the agricultural works begin and the face doesn't arrive to be registered in the parent books of the born. So for these reasons, we can imagine for ourselves how many such persons who are legally invisible, as it is said, are difficult to later exercise their basic rights, such as the right to health insurance, the right to education, cannot get a personal ticket, they cannot get a passport. I will also remind you that international organisations have repeatedly pointed out to the previous regime and to previous competent ministries that an urgent matter must be done on this issue. We have had very sharp criticisms addressed both by the UNHCR and by UNICEF, by the International Committee of the Red Cross, by the OSCE, then the UN Human Rights Committee, the UN Committee on Combating Discrimination, and many others have indicated to the previous regime that an emergency law must be passed. Even the Citizens' Protector Mr. Sasa Jankovic has several times... Mr. President, could you ask your colleagues and colleagues, the MPs... Apparently, some do not care about the problem that clearly weighs about 20,000 people in Serbia, so if it is not a problem, I will. Many of the international organisations have pointed out, in the end, our Mr. Sasa Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector, that something must be done urgently on this matter. I would like to remind you that a group of 124 NGOs sent a direct letter to the then former state administration minister and local self-government to amend the laws and resolve the issue of the legally invisible. There was no hearing from the former regime's competent ministry then, no one wanted to deal with this issue, except, I must admit, in 2012, a draft law entered by the Justice Department in the procedure, but for known reasons was eventually withdrawn. The law we've proposed, the law on non-parny proceedings, just to remind you of what the subject is, since I see you talking, but come on, it's based on demands... I've asked the presidents several times to warn you, but good. The law on out-of-party proceedings, which we have proposed, is based on the solutions proposed by NGOs and the professional public, as well as our Protective Citizens, which provides for the shortest procedure in the out-of-party procedure before any court, within the deadlines set out in advance, free of charge, that all persons not enrolled in the birth certificates can apply in an adequate evidence procedure, prove that they were born in the territory of Serbia, if necessary and witnesses, if necessary with an international legal aid procedure, and then obtain one judicial ruling on the basis of which a copy of the birth certificate is issued. Adequate legal medicines are also foreseen, such a procedure is envisaged to guarantee that basic human rights of persons, as it is said, are legally invisible. On the other hand, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records, as you have seen, has only one member. It is not disputed that public notebooks are needed by Serbia. It is not disputed that we are seriously late for both the EU and the countries in the environment. It is not disputed that both Slovenians and Croats, both BiH and Macedonia, that the Law on Public Registration has long been passed, that good results have been shown. It is not disputed that public notebooks will bring more comfort to our citizens in life, because instead of running into courts and certifying big money contracts, you are waiting for the ranks, and very often after this judicial reform you do not have a court in your place of residence, you will have your public notary, as the people say, a notary of 25,000 inhabitants, your neighbor, who hopefully will pay less for their services than the courts are now charging for this contact with citizens who are definitely needed. We need the Notary Act. We need notaries, but we must ask this House of the National Assembly to accept the SNS MP's proposal to postpone the application of the law for the next six months for the reason that the Ministry of Justice of the former regime, although it has been publicly declared that everything goes its course, that everything goes within the deadlines, has failed to comply with the basic preconditions and has passed the basic sublaws necessary for this law to be implemented. I'll remind you that in the original law it was said that within three months of the date of entry into force of the law, the Department of Justice would pass a rule on the public record exam. I remind you that the law was passed on 9 May 2010, and that this rule was passed by the Ministry of Justice of the former regime on 21 September 2011. For reasons of being late with this Regulation, the appointment of such a person was also delayed with the passing of the exams by the interested persons for the place of the notary. At this point, less than 50 people meet the conditions to acquire a notary calling, and in Serbia, at least 100 people are required to start a notary system at all, and about 400 people are needed for all of Serbia. Today, except on paper, we still don't have the Notary Chamber. Today we don't even have the organs of the Chamber. Today we don't even have other acts of the Chamber, like tariffs. A whole series of other conditions, such as the conditions of the competition, were delayed and that is the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Justice of the former regime. We need the law, but we need all sublegal acts, almost all of them, to be more precise, to be passed in order to implement the Law on Public Records. For this reason, we have no option but to ask this home to postpone the application of the law for only six months, so that the Ministry of Justice, headed by Mr Selakovic and his team, in a much more serious way, can access the system of notary, or by introducing a notary system, and to adopt the necessary rules, organise exams, give people work licenses, establish tariffs, determine the organs of the Chamber and determine everything else necessary for the notary system in Serbia to live. Once again, the notary system in Serbia is needed. It's that we're very late, but we need to have notes. That's a good solution for our citizens. For those who have so far passed a notary exam, their rights acquired under the law will not in any way be violated. So, we ask everyone, and the citizens of Serbia for understanding. It takes us six months for the law to start living, because we inherited a situation that does not allow the law to start applying on September 1st as planned. Since we have a united discussion, we could talk about this for a long time. I'll hang up. I think it is clear that these laws have passed the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. They got one principled consent, unanimously, so I wouldn't be surprised if the amendments were unanimously adopted in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1230	Thank you. Do the words of the committees responsible, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, i.e. the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Bojan Đuric picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1231	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree, Mr. Cvian, with most of what you said here, but I think I have a question first. It's just amazing that this is how you decided to organise this session, to prepare these laws, to submit them and to adopt them. At least they thought of their contents. Today you have offered to amend the Law on Public Records, which has less than 20 words, only two members, and in these two members you have managed to make a mistake in writing and proposing this law. In fact, Article 2 of this law says that it takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. If the law is passed, for example tomorrow, it means that it will enter into force on September 6th or 7th. As far as I understand it, your basic intensity was this law delay the application of the basic text of the Law on Public Records. Therefore, the law would have to enter into force no later than 31 August this year at midnight. If the law is passed in this form that you have suggested, we will have a legal vacuum. So we're going to have five or six days of the old Public Records Act, which provides for one right, one mechanism, one procedure for citizens who will not exist in real life for all of these reasons that you have stated in your own explanation. It was obviously more important to you to repeat one 15 times -- the government of the former regime, the former regime, than to deal with this fundamental error that you have in the bill of law that you have made here. Maybe this mistake would have been avoided if you'd been serious. In fact, you, as the SNS parliamentary group, submitted this bill on 13 August this year. At that point, Serbia already had a government for about 15 days. In that government, there is the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, led by Mr Selakovic, whom you specifically mentioned in your presentation. It would be normal for such a law to be proposed by the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice within it. I don't know what you're suggesting today that we agree to six months delay the application of the Public Note Act, with the confidence that in those six months, you'll be able to do those jobs that the former regime, as you say, that many of your coalition partners are in, have failed to do. So, two members, less than 20 words, a routine technical explanation of the law without even one concrete proof of how you're going to do it. Besides, you don't have to do this, all the acts you mentioned, all the law enforcement actions you mentioned should be adopted by the Serbian government and implemented. What is our guarantee that on February 28th next year, the situation, or all of these problems, will be removed. Let us not talk about that in the first session after the government's election, you have brought a very unpleasant situation to move along the very edge of the Rules of Procedure, now that the Committee has to amend this Article by amendment 2. Half the law will be changed by amendment. You scheduled a session eight days before the maintenance day and thus shortened the deadline for the amendment. In the meantime, you failed to submit an amendment. So you have not found that in a law that has two members, one member is not good, and that the flaw makes it impossible for that member to achieve the purpose of this law that you are proposing. The board will now propose an amendment, probably during the day or just before the vote on the law. What are we gonna talk about here today? So, all those remarks, all those flaws you pointed out when you talked about the former regime, you demonstrated to yourself today, that is, on your side. If there is an opportunity for discussion, i.e. if you decide to continue to talk about this law in the follow-up of the discussion, I expect you to answer that question – why is this ambition to propose laws, whose application directly or whose success depends solely on the government ministry and the newly elected government? This seems to me to be a negative practice of the former regime, as you say, which is that the parties are practically holding ministries on a feudal principle and are then interested in proposing, explaining, defending only those laws that enter into the domain of the affairs of the ministries whose members, i.e. the resolutions held by their ministers, are headed. This is not only an objection to you, but also to the President of Parliament, who has in several ways participated in this kind of preparation, or in holding sessions. You are Mr. Stefanovic, except that you are the President of Parliament, so you formally scheduled this extraordinary session, one of the signatories, or legislator. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly oblige you, you and your professional services, to take a very careful look at the drafts of the law and to take care of their content. It was not so hard to see that when you schedule a session for August 29th, and the law says that eight days from the day of publication in the Official Messenger, we will be in trouble. This second item of the agenda is much less controversial. You're right she's trying to give an answer to a social problem that is a big one, which was pointed out by both the civil sector and some political parties, the international community, or international organisations, above all by those dealing with human rights. It seems to me that, in the light of the bill, you said there were about 6,000 such persons. I'd say there's more to some other sources. This problem is covered by the problem of the state of our administration, the data on our citizens, the way the list was implemented, etc. There are several issues in this law. You know how many problems we have with the quality of law enforcement adopted by this National Assembly, we have had them especially in the past, and these problems that are related to the inability to apply the Law on Public Records. You, in addition to the law on non-partisan proceedings, provided for in the reasoning that the implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in Serbia's budget. At the same time, you have incorporated a provision into the law itself that says that those applying, under this law, it will practically cost nothing, or that it will not pay a fee. As you know, no procedure in front of any state body in economic terms is free, it costs something, costs some. If there is no need to provide additional resources for this purpose in the budget, the procedure is at the same time free of charge for those applying, who will cover the difference, or who will bear the cost. The state authorities, primarily courts, whose jurisdiction is provided for by this law, I don't think they are capable of doing such a thing or not being able to work from some other kind of own income. This would in some ways be unfair and against those citizens who, in court proceedings, pay pretty high taxes and it would turn out that they finance the implementation of this law, which would not be justified, nor fair. Some other provisions may be controversial. I'm not saying that's how it's gonna be. After all, the LDP parliamentary group has submitted four amendments and I think there will be opportunities to discuss them more. My colleague Gerov will discuss this in the follow-up of the debate. There is a problem with this member that defines the attachment, or not the binding of the body that decides on the entry into the book of citizens, i.e. the acquisition of citizenship, this solution which determines the time and place of birth for these persons. In practice, they may be able to produce serious problems. Please try to clarify that now, so that we do not have a problem, not because of the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the OSCE and other organisations, but because of us not to have a law that is difficult to apply or which cannot be applied within a few months. I'd like to conclude, as far as this first law is concerned, the Public Records Act. I think you've made a serious problem and start your mandate by scandal. You've been very careful in the law amending the NBS Act not to make any mistakes. It was very important for you not to question Mrs Tabakovic's future position. In this law that is far more relevant to citizens, which should allow them to get the opportunity in six months to solve their issues and problems in front of notaries, or public notaries, you were not so careful. We all do politics, we follow the media, we understand what this is about to turn into. So you're choosing this point, as one of the points where you're going to run your dealings with the former regime. That's quite clear. Please spare us the problems you have and Serbia those discussions. The previous government ceased to exist 7-8 months ago. We had an election process that lasted more than half a year. You've been the government for a month now, and I'm asking you that when you write laws that have two members, even if those two members are perfect and enforceable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1232	Thank you. I just want to tell you, I accept what you said. I think you're right. The only thing we appreciated was that in fact, we found an opportunity to intervene and correct this matter with the amendment of the board of directors, and, of course, to take it as a well-intentioned discussion of yours and thank you for that. Mr. Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1233	Let me answer a few things to my colleague Guric. We truly understand by your well-intentioned apparition that we have one technical error in the law. So, when laws are written, technical mistakes are made, and printing mistakes are made. I have never, as chairman of the Constitutional and Legislative Committee, caused a problem when amendments came to me, for example. LDPs that are full of printing errors, grammatical errors, in explanation etc. So, I don't see why I should defend anything. Today here, therefore, we acknowledge the mistake and thank you for pointing out and the least of the problems is that one of the technical mistakes that we have in the law, which we have proposed, I am talking, of course, about the Law on Public Records, we are correcting through a competent committee that has the right under the Rules of Procedure to make an amendment. As for the amendments and the amendments and the amendments and additions to the Off-pard procedure, I'm glad we all agree together, including you, that it's a good law. Technical changes, through the technical amendments again, we'll discuss that later. You can't tell me I'm dealing with some earlier conflicts here. You know, I'm just going chronologically. The Law on Public Registration was passed in 2010 and it is good to have it brought. It is that he was ten years late compared to some other countries in the environment, but it is undeniable that all the rules, all the sublegal acts of that law, were late for an average year, even though we had a situation for the Ministry of Justice of the former regime to continuously declare, these statements have at least 100, that everything goes well during. Well, it's not. It's a fact, it's nothing malicious. It is a fact and I have to explain on behalf of the SNS and on behalf of the Minister of Justice who will have to bring all these acts tomorrow, I need to explain to the citizens why we will notaries will not be won again in 2012, but we must postpone for 2013. It's simply not our fault for this delay, because there are no sublegal acts, no conditions, it's absolutely the fault of the former Justice Department. It's a fact, it's not a personal relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1234	Thank you. The word is Olga Batic. Here you go. On what grounds, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1235	Well, based on Mr. Cvian's reply to me, he directly mentioned me. I thought that was obvious. You see, Mr. Cvian, how slippery this is when you talk about the former regime. That's why I asked you not to. When you say the law was passed in 2010, so by the way, he was ten years late compared to other transition democratic countries, then you made a problem for yourself, since you must have been part of that regime in some period after 2000. Well, then part of the responsibility for such a thing falls on you, too. You were the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, a member of his legal council, who participated directly in the preparation and writing of the Constitution which introduced a whole series of obligations for our state bodies and for this Parliament to pass new laws, and then, to put it this way, you spit on yourself and on what you did. I always have a problem, when you speak 2010, 2008, in 2009, I can't remember at what point you left the old regime and started preparing to become part of the new regime. That's why I'm telling you, it's not a good thing we're poisoning this atmosphere here. In particular, there is no need for you in the replica to talk to me again about how the former regime is responsible, it is a technical description of the situation. It is clear that there are no conditions for the law to be applied. I asked you something else. What do you guarantee that in the next six months these conditions will be secured? I would have more confidence that the government, or that the Ministry of Justice, is a promoter, the government and the ministry have mechanisms, are the only ones able to provide these conditions. This isn't a little question. It's not a small question. So, in some ways, the fundamental rights of citizens are also at stake. So citizens have the right to an effective procedure. They have the right to all those human rights guarantees provided for by our Constitution and the international documents that we have ratified. You are today delaying what I would say is the use of that right, i.e. the consumption of that right for at least six months. That is why I expected more convincing assurances from you, or evidence that these conditions will be provided. Please don't compare... in the reasons for the draft law or amendment of this essential error. So if this mistake is not corrected by the amendment it is completely pointless to adopt the law. Whether the old law is applied for six days or 36 days, in a legal sense, it's totally irrelevant. You've missed the point. It's not a little mistake. You waited 29th to pass a month, you removed the emergency procedure from this law. I see you're listening to me very carefully. You're not listening to the basics of the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1236	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1237	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs, the SPO and DHSS Group at all, I have no doubt at all, perhaps in good faith which existed in the adoption of such laws, with the legal technique being a little questionable. In fact, we believe that this is how these laws should be changed, first of all in those areas that are suitable for some criminal structures, and also for immigrants. In a similar way, according to this proposed legislative proposal, we are talking about the law supplementing the law on non-party proceedings. If, for example, a person from Afghanistan entered the trunk of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then within 90 days he could become a citizen, as well as our country. Anyone who would like me to express myself, to get a new identity, even if it were a criminal, could also get a new name, a new home number and, of course, a new, or Serbian citizenship by using such a legal solution. First, someone needs to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then destroy or hide their personal documents. Then, for example, he travels to a small town in southern Serbia, finds two citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pays them a cash amount, say a thousand, two or three thousand, or as many as you want thousands of euros, and thus initiates an extraparate procedure to prove his birth in the Republic of Serbia, because the proposed law states that it is necessary for two witnesses to testify that a particular person was born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that a court can make such a decision. According to such a proposed solution, the court would have to act in the following way - first it would have to establish the language to which the proceedings will be conducted. For example, if it were a citizen of Albania whose language is in official use, let's say, in certain municipalities in the south of our country, or it could be, for example, a Romanian citizen whose official language is also in use in certain municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, it could be about members of the Roma community, let's say from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia who want to get the citizenship of our republic. In all these cases, an official language of procedure could be declared Albanian in the Presevo judicial unit. A relative, for example, could find one 20 people in Presevo who would testify, that person was actually born in the Republic of Serbia instead of Albania. According to the proposed legal solution, no fees are paid for such a procedure, and the cost of skill, the skill of the proposed legal solution exclusively applies to the years born of that person, falls to the burden of the budget. So other than the potential cost needed here and that can be used, because this legal solution is problematic, it's about the corruption of witnesses. A person who can be entered in the birth certificate born in the Republic of Serbia would literally have absolutely no cost. In doing so, the Law stipulates that any court in the Republic of Serbia is in charge of proof of birth. Then it would also happen that the citizens of some other states who want to be enrolled in an artificial book in our country, may, for example, be able to initiate such a procedure in Bujanovac or, say, in Presevo. A Romanian person with the same procedure could launch in Negotin, and a Bulgarian citizen could launch the same procedure in Bosilegrad. If we know the situation on the ground, then we know where this process is going. The bill contains a provision of Article 71(2) under which the authority responsible for carrying out the procedure for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is not bound by a judicial solution on the place and time of birth. However, according to the state of the Serbian legal system, if the MUP refuses to cancel in the book of citizens who, under the proposed procedure, would receive the court's decision on the time and place of birth, then Serbia's administrative court on the suit of that person would have to annul the repudiating solutions to the MUP, and order the ministry to register the person in the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is because the Law on Citizenship is prescribed that a person born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will be admitted to citizenship, based on the court's decision, this legislative procedure, this person would first have to be entered in the birth certificate, and the offspring of the MUP would have asked for citizenship. If the MUP refused to do so, then the person has the right to press charges before the Serbian Administrative Court, and the court would have to order the MUP to sign up, because that person was born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that is enough to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and by respecting the law, the court would only have to do so. It's the exact same situation when we talk about emigrants as with persons who are convicted or persons on the warrant. For example, a certain person, regardless of whose citizen he is, whether he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, BiH or perhaps a citizen of Zimbabwe, could have initiated such a procedure in any judicial unit, for example, in the Tutin municipality to corrupt three witnesses, to indicate that he was never enrolled in the same birth certificate, listed a new name and last name, a new day and a new place born and carried out the procedure or got a new identity by doing so and obtained Serbian citizenship. With all these facts in mind, then I'm afraid that the proposed additions to the Off-Paris Act leave one vast space, primarily an unsightly space for abuse and corruption. First of all, given that the draft law supplementing the law on extra-parnical proceedings does not even create an obligation for courts to keep records that would be submitted to interested state authorities, then it is clear that the state is trying and, better yet, to lose control of our immigration policy and on immigrants at all, as well as on persons who are trying to run a criminal law, because having in mind the state and the urgency or even better said, the impedience of court records, then no one in the country will know how many new entries were made in the parent books of the born during this year, which, without exception, always leads to the acquisition of citizenship. I believe that such legal proposals can lead to the excessive and uncontrollable settlement of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and uncontrollably enrolment in the citizenship of all those persons who do not actually have the right to do so. The situation at this point and the degree of corruption in the country of Serbia is clearly saying that this will happen and it is inevitable, because unlike all other state systems according to this proposed legal solution, it does not need to corrupt even judges, it is necessary, whether it is so to corrupt two witnesses, you don't have two, you can do more than two, but it doesn't seem to matter. Witnesses in all of this, may be relatives, acquaintances, friends who do not have to corrupt themselves who can do this to you for some good purpose, but would certainly have to falsely testify by claiming to say his cousin from a country 30 years ago, actually born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is a clear good wish and good intention of the legislator to enable the entry into the book of the birth to those persons who have not been entered into it so far, and of course it does. Indeed, they were born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, according to the proposal, it is indicative of those 6.5 legally invisible persons and the confirmation of such a thing is not at all controversial, nor of course the need to do so, but in order to do something so in the process of enrolment in the birth certificate, which consequently leads to the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, other state authorities other than the court must be involved. According to the legal proposal, the only obligation regarding other state bodies is to have a court to the MUP, and that is only an obligation to request notice from the MUP whether they may have any record of the person represented in the court in a certain way, and that person, since he claims that he is not listed in the birth certificate, can be represented in any way. In the event of abuse, this leads to the consequences that the ICJ will respond that there is no information about the person and that according to the bill, the court will continue the proceedings without the involvement of the ICJ. In this way, the Court will, through the consequences of obtaining citizenship, indirectly involve itself in the most important records that the MUP maintains, which is the registration of citizenship, and the MUP will have absolutely no authority in this regard, nor will it be able to contribute to the correctness of the proceedings with its information, because a person who initiates such proceedings will not have any obligation to report to the MUP for operational control. Finally, as far as the solution is concerned, we think it is not possible for amendments to correct such a bill, it is possible only to alleviate it in some ways. This is all because it is for the right purpose and narrowing and the possibility of abuse that I have spoken of, it is necessary to amend a number of other regulations and that, the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Parent Books, the Law on the Police, the Law on the Public Defence, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Procedure prescribed by the Ministry of Justice, as well as the rules relating to the internal organisation of all bodies. First of all, for the following reasons, the Law on the Police is designed to prevent such a wide range of abuses must provide for the obligations of the MUP in a situation where the court requests data, in respect of persons who have initiated the birth procedure and who claim to have a specific name and that it is born in a particular place, in order to prevent abuse, the MUP, it is necessary to work in one extremely operational way on the ground and determine whether such a person ever existed in a particular territory. Furthermore, we have the Law on Public Defence, the obligation of the Republic Public Advocate must be provided for, as it is a worse solution to be a city, instead of the Republic, that as an opponent of the motion he must participate in the proposed birth-determination procedure, because according to the proposed solution, other than the Judge and Proposer, no one participates in the procedure, which means that there is no control. The Republican Ombudsman must participate because it is a matter of gaining citizenship, a question that represents the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its defence attorney, i.e. through participation in the process, should represent the interests, primarily of our country, so that he can put forward appropriate proposals and so that he can also inform other executive bodies, give them the initiative. This is also needed for reasons, because according to the proposed legal solution, if the judge has a positive solution at the request of a person, then there is no one who could appeal to such a decision by the judge other than the motions, and according to the proposed legal solution, because there is no other participant in the procedure. There's a very important question here, and that's how much money it takes to corrupt a certain border judge, unless there's an opposite party in the case in which he decides. Furthermore, we have a Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia that must be provided whether a person enrolled in a birth certificate based on a court decision taken in such a procedure cannot acquire citizenship of the Republic of Serbia until a certain number of years of his real and real stay on the territory of the Republic of Serbia have passed. Otherwise, gaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in this way would be much easier than marrying a citizen or citizen of our country, because for that other way, a stranger or a party should be married to a citizen or a citizen of the Republic of Serbia for at least three years and that is Article 17. Law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. According to the proposed legal solution, the sticker should only destroy, that is, all he has to do is destroy his personal documents to corrupt two witnesses, in order to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Next, we've got the Home Book Act. It is necessary to provide for a special way of revoking the entry in the birth certificates before the court if the competent authority initiates a procedure for revoking the birth proof decision. Then, by law on litigation, it is necessary to provide for a special litigation procedure to prove the facts of birth, and this, first and foremost, is the subject of the amendment, should be included in the non-partisan procedure by both the MUP and the public defender, and if there is agreement between the MUP and the public defender, then the court in the out-of-party procedure could adopt a positive solution. If such consent would not be, if it were to fail, then the case would have to be brought to a litigation court. This is of paramount importance, because the court is not authorised in the out-of-party procedure, it cannot and has no legal instruments to determine the disputed facts and this is the fundamental difference between the litigation and the out-of-party proceedings. In the out-of-party procedure, the court judges only facts which are not disputed, and if they are disputed, parties to litigation are referred to. In order to give a chance for the party to be represented, as anything disputed, then another party must be introduced in the process, it could only be the Republic Public Advocate, or his deputy. As soon as it is claimed that there is a dispute among the parties, the outside court would, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Serbian legal system, have to give the case to a judicial court that will determine what the facts are and what they are, and what is not the facts and the judicial court alone has legal instruments, and not extra-parunicative, through those powers which are just given by the Law on a litigation procedure. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior and the Republic Public Advocate, whom we believe would absolutely have to take part in such a non-partisan procedure, and as the opposite, must have insight primarily in front of all that is brought before the court and be able to state whether the facts are, for example, disputed or indisputable. If they are indisputable, the court will, of course, bring a positive solution, if they are disputed, for example, if the Ministry of the Interior considers it to be an immigrant, then the court will refer the applicant to a litigation, in which the complaint will prove that he is not an immigrant, and the MUP and the Advocate will prove to be the immigrant and the litigation procedure is the only procedure that allows it, because he is the only one who gives such authority, both to the parties and to the court. At the same time, the participation of the central authorities of the executive authority will also be made possible, as only such authorities may have the correct information regarding the facts they create or create no doubt as to who is or where they are born. At the same time, it is also a sufficient kind of control to deter the persons who intend to abuse this procedure, because the involvement of the MUP, i.e. through their operational work and defender, would reduce the chance of abuses that are extremely high at the moment. The Registrar, also, after all the laws, has come to order and the Rules of Procedure, must be changed to the work concerning the court's records and hence must be prescribed a special record of the number and manner of the resolution of these requirements. In particular, the obligation must be made to provide the same periodically to other state authorities, and particularly to the MUP, in order to further build a one-off immigration policy and to gain insight into the number of requests and places in which the number is disproportionately large. We further have regulations that prescribe an internal organisation and systematisation within the MUP and the Republic of Public Prosecutor who must be so amended that officials in those bodies can respond to the tasks that are to be put before them in respect of this type of procedure. An extremely important question arises – why is there any hurry to establish a completely new court procedure, because in general, given the state of affairs, especially the key need to introduce such a new court procedure through the amendment of the law, or to supplement an extraparate procedure that follows the amendment of a series of legal solutions, then, in the last amendment, and proposes that the adopted law be applied from the beginning of next year. It takes a few new months to gain insight into the possibility, first of all, to present the dangers that such a new procedure carries and to propose the best solutions that correspond to state interests, while not harming citizens who are not yet listed in their books. As I have already assumed and said at the very beginning, we do not question the intention of the foundation and necessity of passing such laws, above all the law on extras of the outsider procedure, because I explained it, but I think the legal technique should be amended, and that through the amendments it is absolutely impossible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1238	Thank you. Before we go any further, just to let you know that a memo from the government has arrived in the meantime informing us that tomorrow the National Assembly sessions will not be attended by members of the government: Suzanne Grubjesic, Jovan Krkobibic and Ivan Mrkic. Here you go, Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is doubtless, and we have already said in the opening statement that this law officially looks at 6750 people, it is an assessment of UNHCR, but based on an older analysis, it is likely in the reading of 15, 20,000 inhabitants of this country to whom this law will bring much good, it will be able to draw out their personal cards, they will be able to use their rights from health insurance, education, etc. and it is doubtless that we are mostly talking about poor people who are probably living in some remote parts of Serbia and have never had a chance to do this story, which is needed to report children. It is interesting that I have heard twice already during a debate of a kind – what have we put in the bill, as a representative group of SNS, that the procedure is free of charge? Just because this procedure applies to poor people in most cases. The courts have funds from earlier budgets, courts have the means to obtain, on the basis of which they work, and I'm sure there's enough to be found under these funds for one number of procedures of this type. So, we stay 100 percent on our proposal to keep the procedure free, which, in the end, was also a proposal from all international organisations, it was a proposal and a protector of citizens, and the funds would, if nothing else, be from the regular resources of the courts. Of course, when I read the law for the first time, I was interested in this topic somewhere, if people can come and falsely testify, so they can say – pay someone 1000, 2000, 5000 euros to testify in favour of some Afghan, for example. gets our citizenship and enrollment in the books of origin. Let's make a deal. False testimony is a serious crime that can be obtained up to five years in prison, so if someone is going to play, there are also the competent authorities that need to worry about it. On the other hand, we're not supporters, and that's why we don't want to complicate this law, the conspiracy theory, where we'd say now -- there'll be Afghans, Chinese people and the like. I think it's clear to some Chinese that 30 years ago he was hardly born in Serbia. So there are mechanisms, there are procedures provided for in the law that allow both in the second degree and in the official duty to be eliminated by people who, by law, are enrolled in the books, who abuse the rights given by this law, and thus all of them are put in prison. We fully agree that a whole series of other laws should be amended, but also, we will hear from later presentations, especially respected counterpart Shajin, that it is already very much working on these laws that need to be changed, and for these reasons we have asked them to start applying this law at the end of this year, that is, the beginning of next year. We can't say we're in a hurry. We work gradually, we work transparently, the laws are there, we'll talk about amendments, we're aware of all the laws that need to change, I just pray that no one, if it's no problem, would ask me no more to answer – why we introduced to be free. We want to help, we're talking probably about 20 thousand people who are poor, who may be just because they're poor, they couldn't report their children in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1240	Thank you. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1241	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I, as the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, believe it is very important to remind the citizens of Serbia and the public that the Laws on Public Registration were representatives of the previous government, and above all the Ministry of Justice, announced as part of the action plan and as another step towards meeting Serbia's rules with European law, in the function of approaching Serbia and as creating conditions for legal security. In principle, there can be no objection to this view, except for the question of whether in May 2011, it was a late deadline for a law that was part of an action plan to bring our legislation into line with the European legislation, while also expected the European Commission's decision to get a date for Serbia's EU negotiations. But I will accept that the less evil that the law was passed then rather than that, with its adoption, still waiting, and if there were conditions, but obviously not a good will for its adoption earlier. I cannot accept the fact that, in parallel with its adoption, conditions for its application and implementation have not been created, and today we support representatives of the SNS who are seeking an additional six-month period, in order to prepare the conditions and perform a series of activities of sublegal acts for its application. It is therefore unacceptable and irresponsible to the citizens of Serbia and dishonest to the EU representatives, that, in parallel with the activities of the working group for the adoption of this law, it has not worked to create conditions for its application and that this law, as well as a number of others, remains a dead letter on paper and evidence of the dishonest relationship of the previous ruling coalition towards such an important issue, such as Serbia's EU accession. So, the application of this law, the adoption of sublegal acts, the establishment of the Chamber and a number of other activities that were legal obligations of the authorities, which were not met, but I think they should also be a motive for hiring 300 people who would resolve their status, who would feed their families and not be at the work desk. Other motives – dispensation of the court, transparency in work, reduction of abuse and legal certainty were meant to be an additional incentive for the application of this law. But we also have the fact that after a new network of courts, people travel 50 miles and more to verify a contract. Coming to Parliament today, I was stopped by a citizen who, on the basis of his negative experience and a statement he confirmed on the court counter, and now as a necessary successor, is struggling to exercise his right to the property of his parents, has provided full support for the application of this law, as future generations will be protected from such fraud. Serbia is the only country in the region that has no notary and has so far not been ready to face law enforcement, although forums and discussions and test processes for notaries have been organised. Regular elections held in May this year cannot be an excuse for a job that is not completed until the end, although it would take a period of one year. What other shortcomings must be defined by sublegal acts? This law very clearly defines that notaries will verify contracts, make up and preserve willful and premarital contracts, issue certificates of name, life, declarations of will, receive in a deposit of valuables, from the court will take over undeniable desert procedures and real estate contracts, take over on themselves and a series of actions that precede tax collection, but there are no sublegal acts defining how much the notary service will cost. I expect that the creation of conditions for the application of this law will also result in savings due to reduction of court costs, a reduction in the number of disputes and litigation in courts, so I expect public records to exercise real control of money flows and contribute to the repression of corruption and money laundering in Serbia. It is very important that confidence in public notaries is strengthened over time and that their powers, especially in relation to public re-gifts and companies, will further improve legal certainty and the rule of law. For New Serbia, it is very important that public notebooks must from the start be a neutral instance of the rule of law and therefore it is crucial to be transparent in controlling their work. Conditions for the employment of notaries must be impeccable and cannot be sufficiently emphasized how important it is that citizens in that institution should have confidence. If party listeners have been elected for judges so far and we have suffered criticism from both Serbian citizens and European institutions over the past three years, then it is very important that future notaries be professional and moral people. Therefore, the state must be careful of whom it entrusts public authority and chooses the best in healthy competition. It is very important that at the beginning of the implementation of this law we do not make a mistake, but to bring the legal system into line with the notary service, so that the executive notary document has its function and that the objectives and effects of the Notary Service are complete. Ethics and responsibilities must be a mark of the profession of the public notebook. The notary's main task is to work advisoryly for the benefit of citizens, which is why it is also very important to create a quality network of public notebooks in which the right will become available to all citizens of Serbia. I believe that at the beginning of work for the implementation of this law, it is also necessary to take into account the experiences of other countries, right now that we are able to return the institution to the public notebooks after seventy years from the end of this institution. I will take an example of Germany in which the public records system has been in place for five hundred years and in which the public notebook bears exclusive responsibility for communication between the public registers office and the public registers. Public notes in Germany bear disciplinary responsibility if they deliberately committed a mistake, and then there is mandatory insurance that all public notebooks conclude, but if the error was made willingly and intentionally by the notaries then the insurance does not cover the damage caused by the latter, but the consequences are shared and carried together by all notaries by making a contribution to a fund from which the damage is covered. Citizens are also expected to create conditions for better communication with monasteries, which could lead to a reduction in the number of disputes in the area of the introduction of property rights over real estates. I believe that these proposals that I made on behalf of the NS parliamentary group will allow conditions to be created within these six months that this institution in Serbia for living, to gain support and trust for all citizens and what I can say to this occasion, NS MPs will support both of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1242	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I have to ask one question at the beginning, and that is why, the authorized ministry for these two draft laws is not their formal proposal? I also asked this question on the Justice Committee, but I got an explanation that it doesn't matter. I don't agree with that. It doesn't matter if he's an authorised legislator of these laws, or if he's an authorised proposing group of 61 SNS MPs. If we chose the government, if the government was working, then it was to be expected that it would be the formal promoter of these two laws. If I'm not mistaken, one of these two laws has already been in congregation procedure. The government has withdrawn him, and now a group of members of the ruling coalition put him on the agenda. I personally express my doubts as to why it is. I don't think I do, and I can't understand something like that, especially in a situation where the government works. That we are in a situation that the government has yet to be elected, then it is a completely clear situation and it is a clear situation why SNS MPs defended the Law on Ministrys or a draft law on government. It's a completely different story. But, like this, he's afraid, getting what Mrs Batic was saying, which I absolutely agree with, that this law can be a front for something that is not explained by the promoter at today's session. When it comes to the contents of the law on extra-parnical procedure, of course we have nothing against it. Whoever was in this parliament could also have known with insight into the stenogram and, of course, direct experience, that we, as a parliamentary group, had on several occasions insisted that this particular issue be resolved, the issue of legally invisible persons. We asked when the book code was on the agenda to solve this issue, because we thought it was his most natural address. We also felt that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia must have the opportunity to achieve his human rights and freedoms on equal terms. We also felt that, when discussing the Law on residence and residence, it was necessary for this issue to be resolved and we felt that the legal logical trail of the move was that the first person not included in the home books was allowed to re-enter the parent books and only then to establish his nationality, and only then to allow him to register his residence and residence, which was the case of the then Law on residence and residence. If this is an EU request, so the European Commission, I really don't understand why Mr Markovic, whose jurisdiction this was when we discussed the parent books, did not resolve this issue. So, since I know Mr. Markovic, since it may be one of the few ministers that I greatly appreciate in that government, I'm surprised that he didn't solve this issue even though he also knew, because this request exists from before, what is his background, and I'm looking for an answer to that. Of course, it would be much better to have a representative of the Justice Department standing in front of us and that he would give us an answer to this question. I believe that, perhaps, a formal promoter, a member of the SNS, may not have been sent to a complete situation related to this law. Also, on the text of the bill, as I said, we have no fundamental grudges. We have submitted four amendments that, of course, improve the text of the law and facilitate the procedure proposed for proof of birth. In that sense, I think the promoter will have an understanding for them. When it comes to this second law, or the proposal for a law on public records, the situation is indeed very different, precisely because the government has been put into a situation where more than 61 SNS MPs are seeking to postpone the application of the Law on Public Registration. Of course, it is clear that the conditions are not secured, that the public notary chamber is not formed, it is clear that the first 100 public notebooks have not been selected and all of these are reasons that we and we can understand and for us this delay of application is not even controversial. Also, I think we can also have an understanding for the former Justice Ministry why this deadline has been postponed, especially if we know what problems the Justice Ministry has been facing since the re-election of judges and prosecutors and, of course, after the full reform of the judiciary. Taking into account all that was done at the time and taking into account all the mistakes and failures that were made then, we can have an excuse for that, but it could also be expected that deadlines for providing conditions for the training of public-booking services will be breached. However, it may sound paradoxical, but I personally believe that if we take into account all the non-transparency followed by the re-election of judges and prosecutors, and in particular the absence of all the criteria and criteria in the assessment of their work, then, in my opinion, it is a good thing that the public notebooks are not appointed by the previous government. My personal opinion that it is much easier to delay the application of one law than to remove the mistakes that have already been made, which have already produced some of their certain legal consequences, and in that case I think that the situation that has found us, which is who it is, is actually much better. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking about it because I was personally interested in following up on everything that happened about the appointment of a public notary, more specifically about the organisation of a public-book exam, because I was probably the first person to attend the first generation of persons to attend specialist studies at the Law School in the field of public records. I had an opportunity from my direct experience, and of course from the indirect knowledge, to make sure of all the intransparency of organising a public-book exam. 270 candidates took the exam, including about 40 judges and a large number of fellow lawyers with long-standing experience and professional reputation. Of all of them, only 41 persons passed a written part of a public-book exam. This, of course, does not in itself raise any doubt, as to the fact that those candidates who passed the written part of the exam have shown an incredibly low level of knowledge on the oral part that was public and that each of us had the opportunity to attend if we wanted to and could. At that time, we could hear that a person who, for example, works brilliantly in a written exam has a problem with basic legal institutions, let's say that he doesn't know what a Tabisan kinship is, or an example of which the mobile property is divided, or not in divorce. Such situations were a handful and all of this casts certain doubts about all that has been done so far in the process of organising a public-book exam. It is also interesting that the mahm candidates who had already passed a specialist exam at the Faculty of Law, which, by the way, was extremely difficult, and I am giving a confirmation because only 10% of the total number of candidates succeeded in the Law School's public-book exam to pass. Those candidates did not now pass a public-recorded written part of the exam, which was organised a few months ago. This raises great doubt about the transparency of organising this exam. And it's also very interesting, to say amazingly, that those candidates who said so did not have a written part were able to make an insight into their case only with the presence of one member of the commission. If there were criteria, there would be no need for the presence of any member of the commission, but the results would be made public. You'd know how much and how much it stings. Here's proof that either the criteria didn't exist, or there were criteria that weren't equal for everyone. This is a huge problem when it comes to the general appointment of public notebooks, the passing of this exam for the simple reason that we need to know that the public-book service is out of public trust which should be independent and independent and the errors in the appointment of public notebooks should not be allowed, as we allowed in the re-election of judges. It's, of course, as I said, another one in a series of failures, and I have to direct all the congratulations to the Justice Department, because one of the first moves that it's made is that it's changed the lawyer on taking a public-book exam and it's respected all those remarks of the candidates who took the exam and it's done as one of the first moves, it's something that mistakes are kind of being taken away from. I would be much more pleased if a similar situation had been done with the Law on Public Registration because we believe that the law in its basic text, which is valid, should suffer certain changes. That is why we believe it was much better for the representative of the Justice Ministry today to be an authorised promoter, because I believe that there was then a comprehensive review of the basic Law on Public Records, so that some of our remarks that we are going to make in our debate today would find our place in the bill of law. Today we're just moving the deadline for the application of this law. I've already expressed my opinion that the whole bill should have been on the agenda today. I disagree with Mr. Cvian, because he said at the Committee session that it was an extremely high-quality text of the public records law. Our thinking in this regard and opinion is completely different. We also made our point when discussing the law when it was on the agenda. We think if the basic purpose of the public-book service is that it is independent and independent, then this text of the law is not a guarantee of it. Not this proposal, but the text of a law that is valid. As defined by the public-booking service, it is argued, and the text of the law makes it clear that it is under the overemphasis of the executive authority. If you look at the text of the law, you will see that the representative, or the minister of justice, has huge powers to regulate all possible issues related to the public notebook. He, as an in-house authority, calls the solution public notebooks. His influence is most important in the appointment of the first 100 public notebooks. When we discussed the law, here is Mrs Malovic, we referred as MPs a group of questions why she insists on the number of 100 public notebooks being first elected. We have addressed this question because it is not clear to us whether such a hidden ambition is behind that number, if it is said that public notebooks, and those first public notaries are determined on the basis of the criteria of the territory of the basic courts, why the number 100 insisted. Of course, I can't ask you to answer that question, and so I'm saying that it would be much better if the Justice Department's representative were here today, because we would get answers to those questions, too, but it's clear that in this bill we have a certain kind of suspicion. The whole process of appointing public notebooks is completely non-transparent. He's not exactly regulated. It leaves a huge space for arbitrary decision-making and does not remove suspicion of impartial appearance. That is why I believe that this procedure for the appointment of public notebooks in the basic law is necessary to change. I would remind you that only five members of the basic law deal with this matter, and that only one of those five members said that the election between two or more candidates would take into account the result of the public-record exam, the judicial exam and the results of the candidate for the public notary himself. That is, of course, insufficient because it is as if it were written that the minister of justice wanted to have a hugely decisive influence on the appointment of public notebooks themselves. These are the shortest of our remarks. I am truly sorry that the representatives of one part of the ruling coalition today and the formal proposings of this law, because I believe that the mass of these remarks that we have made today would have found its place in a broader text of the amendment of the Law on Public Records. I hope it doesn't become a practice in this House's work. Unfortunately, many mistakes have been made in this area, which was responsible for the Ministry of Justice. I think it's necessary for the Justice Minister to be here in the O.R. in some recent time to discuss with him everything that needs to come up as a solution to overcoming all these mistakes and failures that are still ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1244	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's start with the Act of Off-pard procedure. For ten years we have been listening to criticism from the international community, I have already listed, there is no international organisation, there is no world organisation, from the United Nations, through the UNHCR, the International Committee, the Red Cross, all criticise why we do not have a solution to the issue of legally invisible persons. Then we have a situation where the Protector of the Citizens says the same thing. We must note that nothing has been done in ten years. Today, here's the second time I've heard that subject, it's a problem who proposed the law. I guess the point is that we have a good law, right? Whether it was proposed by the Justice Ministry or by a group of 61 MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, I find it completely irrelevant for the simple reason the law is good, the law is needed. We have decided to tackle and as a Serbian Progressive Party, and as a ruling coalition, all together to deal with the problem of solving 15 or maybe even 20,000 inhabitants of this country. I don't think the 15,000-20 000 inhabitants of this country really care who specifically proposes the law. As for the other issues that we discussed today, you know, Minister Selakovic will be present tomorrow and we will be able to ask questions concerning and amend other laws, as well as the notary laws only. I have to deny it, I didn't say at the Committee's session that the Notary Law was good, far from that, but I said it was good to have it. It is that at 10 years late he came, but, thank God, at least we have the initial text that we can start with. I'm sure some changes and additions will be adopted later, but after public debates, after consultations with the professional public and all others. The reason why we have only one member of the law in the procedure today is because we have to postpone law enforcement, because without these amendments and additions, it would not be possible to come into force and begin to apply on September 1st of this year. The very way so far, as the Notary exams went, as it went to report people to be notaries really reminds of the former Ministry of Justice and the former regime, especially in the area of judicial reform. We had one fully closed judicial reform. There is no international organisation that has not criticised, and we have an obvious problem with the way the notaries have passed the exam so far, i.e. future notaries. We have a very strange situation with that checking out who passed, who got what grade. We have already received notice of this, and we are sure that one day it will be the subject of discussion in this congregation. In any case, I have to agree in some way that it's really good that the former Justice Ministry didn't end up doing a notary system, because, as if Serbianly speaking, they messed up everything they could, surely the notary system in Serbia would have failed if the former Ministry of Justice had had the opportunity, and thank God, the votes of the citizens had not had the opportunity to complete the reform of the Notary system. Finally, to refer to some of the amendments that we have received from the DSS parliamentary group, which concerns the law on non-partisan proceedings, it will be the topic of debate tomorrow, but we thank you. We believe that some of these amendments are of great quality and will improve the text. We'll have a chance to discuss this in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1246	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1247	Mr. Cvian, I appreciate the fact that you are a young MP, and I was a young MP once. I simply had the opportunity to study parliamentary procedure and today I am teaching it and, simply, these are the rules that are being changed, but I cannot respect the fact that it does not matter whether the formal legislator of the law is the Ministry of Justice or a group of 61 SNS MPs. I also gave my reasons why I think so. First of all, because, by some case, the Ministry of Justice is a proponent of this law, I believe that a full analysis of the current situation in this area would be different and that we would have a single text of a law that is comprehensive, a proposal that is much wider than what we have today, which would refer to certain issues that can already be assumed to be not functioning according to the best rules of the profession, at least in public notation. In that sense, I was saying that it's much better that the legislator of the law is the Ministry of Justice. On the other hand, we must add the fact that the previous Government was much more Eurofanatic than this government and we must also acknowledge the fact that the European Commission's objections existed at that time and that the European Commission has expressed its concerns about regulating this category of persons for much longer than two years, but then Minister of Justice, Mr Markovic, knowing what is going on and knowing these changes to whom they can all relate, it has not incorporated into the basic law on the parent books that it has brought. That's why I refer to my remarks that may sound like formal nature, but they're not at all formal. I would like you to reassure me and to reassure me of anyone else in this room that this law will not be a front for those cases that Mrs Batic or the cover for some other cases we couldn't hear anything about in the formal discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1248	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief. You're talking about a cover for cases that were mentioned earlier about the apropo possibility of the law being abused. Look, any law can be misused, but if we're going to discuss here today whether we as the ruling coalition propose this law to ensure that Afghans who cross the border in the trunk get citizenship, let's not exactly deal with these things. So it's clear that this law should exist. This law looks a lot like the law that the former Justice Ministry has passed, we must admit that the former Justice Ministry has rarely taken good steps, so it was timely, at the beginning of this year, to propose a similar law on the extraparnical procedure that solves the problem of legally invisible persons. We have a very similar law and we have no problem admitting the merits of the former ministry, as we do not understand why the former Minister of State and local self-government, despite the request 124 precisely put by the NGO to receive draft laws, to put them in the process, why he did not put draft laws in the procedure. I'm talking about legally invisible faces again. So the law on extra-parnical proceedings will solve the problem. Is there any possibility of abuse? Absolutely. Any law can be misused, so there are investigative authorities, which is why there are five years in prison for example. fake testimony, so what do you say, if someone's gonna play, let them play, they're gonna end up in jail. It's a reality. We need this law and we definitely cannot continue to understand, although I have heard, a young MP, we are here for years, but I do not understand, if the law is good, we will have the opportunity tomorrow to ask Minister Selakovic what is in his plan when it comes to the notary system in the future, what is in his plan when it comes to amending all other laws that are necessary for the implementation of the Law on Extraparnical Procedure, i.e. to eliminate the problems of legally invisible persons. So I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia, for these 15, 20,000 who are directly interested, that this law be passed. I'm convinced that the law is good, that certain amendments will further improve it, but if we're going to do for every law that's adopted here to go into paranoia and see if this law is passed as a front for the Chinese to sign in, I don't think we're going to get far. I repeat, every law is subject to abuse, but that's why there are five years in prison to give false testimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1250	Thank you. Milica Radovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1251	Given the situation we're in and as a state, and in any case, the state of justice we're in, I don't think there's any place to caricate. The fact is that you as a good lawyer, even any one of us who plans to be a good lawyer one day, must have in mind all aspects of the adoption of one law. I'm not saying here that this law will refer to those cases that we've had a chance to hear about today, but I'm telling you that this law is a good basis for his abuse. Do you know why? Because the whole procedure in front of the judge is not properly regulated. There had to be much higher criteria. You can't in the presence of just two witnesses confirm the fact that a person was born here and there, in that place or then. So, the solution to the procedure under the motion to prove a solution is the basis for enrollment in the birth certificate, and you know that the entry into the birth certificate brings further legal consequences that enable that same person to obtain some other legal entities. I mean citizenship, later, passport and a lot of other things that come out of it. I personally believe that if you are already so sure that this law cannot be the basis for its abuse, then the whole procedure before the court proceedings, or before the court council or judge of the individual, I could not quite get the impression of the law, had to be more strictly defined. Only in that case, I have an objection. Otherwise, the human side of this law is undeniable. We absolutely support it, we were these MPs who knew how many years ago absolutely apostropheed the issue as one of the important issues, believing it was necessary to regulate it in the right way. So don't tell us things that absolutely don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1252	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1253	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course we will always carefully study the amendments that contribute to making the text of the law that we have proposed better. We've carefully studied the amendments submitted by the DSS. We've heard some criticism here today and some law-related exhibits, especially about the outsider procedure, which may sound so nice when spoken in front of the gym, in front of the cameras, but we didn't get any amendments to that guy. So four amendments have been proposed by the DSS and there will be a debate tomorrow, but we got them on the committees on legislation and on the judiciary. Of those four amendments, I say openly, three are very good quality and technically solve some problems. The deadlines are extending, they're shrinking somewhere, and we agree, but we haven't gotten any amendments regarding what we just heard as one of the grudges. We don't mind discussing that every law we propose is advanced, but if we're going to talk about the seriousness of this home, then we have to talk about that any such proposal for promotion must be transformed into one form of amendment. I repeat once again, we have not received any amendments, specifically I will say, although it opens up opportunities for another replica, but I hope it will not be, but we have not received any DSS amendment that would deal with the possibility of abuse of the law. I'm sure they'd study it carefully. So, if there's such a problem, send out the amendments, we'll study them carefully, but I think it has to be delivered with some reason, it has to be said why there are so many doubts about some elements of our legal system. To conclude, we don't mind, every law is subject to abuse, that's clear. That's why there are investigative organs, that's why there's a prison. The assembly also serves to improve the laws, but if someone has criticism of the law, then the best way to turn that criticism into something material, which is the amendment. We're always ready to read them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1254	Thank you. Mrs. Radovic, I'd like to ask you just to finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1255	As far as I'm concerned, I'm ending this cycle of reporting. I must say, the deadline for amendments has passed and it is no longer possible to submit amendments. On the other hand, if you had carefully read that fourth amendment that we have submitted, then you would have seen that it is precisely partly referring to regulation of the court itself, because it does not just restrict the possibility of the court calling on all persons he personally considers to be able to obtain from them a certain kind of knowledge, to address the court and on the basis of their testimony to confirm whether a particular person achieves the conditions or does not achieve the conditions. That's the amendment Mr. Cvian is talking about in a completely different way. The amendment, not in a completely strict way, but in a very clear enough manner regulates the relationship in the case itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1256	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirna Kosanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1257	I would like to say that there is indeed an unknown number of people living in the Republic of Serbia without legal identity. These are persons who were either never included in the birth certificates or were destroyed and disappeared, and they do not have documents or other evidence that they were entered. For the rule of law, they are invisible and therefore do not exercise civil and other rights. The political community and the modern state provide the right. The integration of modern society, the management of it and the regulation of social relations is based on the law and it is the constitutional basis of modern state and policy. The fact of birth and the determination of the name as the basis of personal identity should be uncontested recognition to every newborn on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To this we are bound by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that the parties to this Convention must respect and ensure the rights established by the Convention of each child under their jurisdiction, without discrimination, regardless of race, skin color, sex, religion, political or other confidence, national, ethnic, social origin, property, disability, birth or other child status or his parent or legal guardian. This human right is not adequately accessible to children whose parents do not have personal documents, for they cannot be entered in the parent book born in the ordinary registration procedure, and the existing regulations make it difficult for them or prevent them from pursuing it in the process of subsequent enrolment and the fact of birth. The most common is the persons of Roma origin, and in public there are conflicting data on their numbers. Since the number of legally invisibles has been under discussion for over a decade, it would be good to collect these documents during the census. However, the list that was made in 2011 did not actually make these residents visible. For a long time, it has been debated whether to pass a special law as the most effective way to address the problems of the legally invisible, and the government's resolution of state administration or local self-government has long pointed out that the problem can be solved more effectively and better quality state administration. However, the number of objects that were made in the first-degree and second-degree proceedings and which were considered do not actually speak about what was really found in these proceedings. Insolvent problems arise when citizens who have no evidence of the facts regarding their birth, because the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia do not allow the fact of birth to be established either in administrative or in judicial proceedings under the current content of the rules. The Ombudsman initiated his initiative to amend the two laws adopted by this National Assembly, so that there was an amendment to the Law on the ID card and the Law on residence and residence, in order to allow people without a permanent address to receive temporary personal documents. However, it is only the beginning of solving this problem. The reasons why the problem of recognising identity, i.e. legal status, is legally invisible is the fact that public administration does not take all the legal means available, nor regulates any effective procedure in which the fact of birth would be proved. Different interpretations of the laws and practices of the authorities, for example in administrative proceedings, but also in court proceedings, decide on proof of birth facts by contributing to legal uncertainty and creating inequality for citizens in the single legal system. This inefficient, unclear and complicated procedure of subsequent entry of birth facts condition that unknown, but according to all available data, a significant number of citizens cannot achieve basic human rights, which is difficult for citizens to understand, it is particularly difficult to face challenges if they are ignorant, poor and if public administration appears ahead of them. Often, for these reasons, they give up on running complicated administrative and judicial proceedings and step aside from this social concern. The consequences are visible in the personal dramas of these people and in increasing their numbers. The problem of the superficial interest of the administration is greater if it is known that the principle of legal identity is one of the fundamental human rights established by the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is founded in the International Civil and Political Rights Pact and in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is about the international documents that our state ratified, adopted and guaranteed to the citizens by the 2006 Serbian Constitution. The adoption and application of this law on non-partisan proceedings will enable the exercise of human and other rights, prevent the growth of the number of apartrids, and also eliminate shortcomings in existing procedures and enable the effective exercise of this right in a court-wide extraparnical procedure, not including the possibility of achieving these rights and in a administrative procedure, if conditions exist. As the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we advocate those democratic principles and respect for the international standards adopted by our country, which are contained in the Constitution, and we propose that the proposed amendment of the Law on Extraparnical Procedure be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1258	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1259	Thank you. Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, as has been said among other things, there are two legislative proposals ahead of us. It is about the draft law amending the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Act on non-partisan procedure. It is about legal proposals concerning and belonging to the area of justice, an area of exceptional importance and importance at this time for Serbia. At the very beginning, in this very context, I would like to say that it is a clear determination and determination of Serbia when it comes to European integration, when it comes to our ultimate goal – EU membership. On the path of European integration, one of the most significant preconditions, let's say, the most significant segments is precisely the area of justice, i.e. the harmonisation of the Serbian judiciary with the European, that is, reform of the Serbian judiciary. It is therefore very important that everything that is done and done, both today and in the next time period, when it comes to the area of justice, be done and done in agreement and consultation with our partners from the EU. A little while ago, someone mentioned a report from the European Commission. The suggestions and proposals of the European Commission are actually a guideline and a direction that the Serbian judiciary needs and must go in the next period of time. The promoter of these two legislative proposals is the SNS Parliament Club and I see nothing wrong with that. When it comes to the Minister of Resort, he will attend tomorrow, according to the Rules of Procedure, a session from 16:00 to 1900 hours, where we will be able to specifically discuss the subject of the judiciary. Of course, it is important, and I repeat, bearing in mind the importance and importance of this topic in Serbia today, of course it is important for us MPs, the representatives of the highest legislative body, that from the resolute minister at the beginning of this mandate, we hear what it is that we can, we must and should do here within the republican parliament, in order for Serbia to meet its areas on the path of European integration, and above all, in the area of justice. The reform of the judiciary, the rule of law, are the basic preconditions for one country to be an EU member. What I'm trying to say is that, regardless of the European path that Serbia needs to continue to go successfully, we have to turn to ourselves somehow, to work things out, do and do not do it because of the EU, but because of us, because of the citizens of Serbia. Serbia needs a modern and efficient judicial system. Serbia needs a modern and efficient judiciary, a professional and independent judiciary, as one of the few said, with complete integrity. Serbia must have a judiciary in which Serbian citizens will believe. This should be our common goal, to restore citizens' trust in the Serbian judiciary. I repeat, it is very important that from a resolute minister, a representative of the resolution ministries at the start of this government's mandate, we hear realistically where this is Serbia today when it comes to judicial reform. I don't think so, and I have no intention of talking about what happened. I don't think I'm talking about the past. We can't change the past today and we can change it, but we can really look at the present and build the foundations of the future. I say this for one simple reason, because I am convinced that in the next time period we will not have a chance and we must not take any step backwards when it comes to the path of European integration and especially in the area of justice we must take one step at a time, with each next step being far more important and far more important than the previous one. Today we have two legislative proposals on the agenda. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on Public Registration, it is the Law that we adopted in May 2011 in the Republic of Parliament and its application was due to begin in September 2012. Among other things, this law was the obligation of the republic's parliament, which was clearly defined in the Serbian Justice Reform Strategy, which was again adopted in the republic's parliament, I think, in 2006. We believe that the application of the Law on Public Records will significantly relieve courts by transferring the work of jurisdiction to public notaries, or notaries. During the election campaign, most of the political parties talked about an extremely important and important topic – decentralisation. The election campaign is over, the elections are over and now, after the establishment of the parliamentary majority, we must and practically show what we meant when we talked about decentralisation. I think this is one practical example of the decentralisation of the state administration, because here the state administration is transferring its powers to public services. This law should dissipate courts, increase efficiency and, as it has been said, increase legal certainty and speed up judicial proceedings. We believe that the application of this law will allow us to no longer have those long lines in courts where citizens have to wait a few hours to verify one signature. Citizens need the same price, to formulate it, to get a better, better, more efficient, more operational service. When it comes to a concrete law, and it has been said very little about that, the Law on Public Registration itself contains the rights, powers of public notebooks or notaries, and of course, the launch of disciplinary procedures, their organisation, association. What we insisted on at the moment when we were talking within the Republic's parliament about then a legislative proposal, or a proposal for a law on public records, is that we must clearly define, i.e. that the rules for passing exams must be clearly defined. Today we have one, that's what I want to say today, I'm convinced of a good law. Unfortunately, we will not be able to see it until next year. We have a law passed in May 2011. Its application was due to begin in September 2012, but it is not possible because those basic preconditions have not been met, as the legislator also said. There are no first 100 public notebooks and no public-booking chamber to define the important sublegal act. If these facts, which are correct, are given in the light of these legislative proposals, then it is a perfectly logical and reasonable proposal and the intention of the proposings of this legislative proposal to postpone the application of this law for a certain period of time. We really want to believe that the legislator most rationally considered all the relevant facts and that he gave one of the most realistic deadlines if he could start applying this bill, because if again just before March of next year we had to talk about delaying the application of this law then I think we would be disabling a very good and quality idea, which is not an interest, I am convinced, not a single Parliament club. We will support the proposed amendments to the Public Note Act. As far as the second legislative proposal is concerned, the draft law supplementing the law on extraparnical proceedings, in fact supporting it, we want to support the goal that is to be achieved through the adoption of the legislative proposal, which is to address the issue of 6,750 persons legally invisible in Serbia who, unfortunately, in the 21st century Serbia, could not achieve their basic human, elemental right to take out personal documents. This law defines that each individual is recognised under the law. Over 6,500 people who were legally invisible are becoming equal to all Serbian citizens and there are no more legally invisible persons in Serbia. That's completely justified. On the other hand, we have two elements here. One is respect for basic human rights. The second is an equal chance system for everyone in the state of Serbia. These are principles and principles that are perfectly logical to be supported by a modern and authentic representative of the left on Serbia's political scene, such as the SPS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1260	The word has Dr Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1261	Dear fellow MPs, listening to this debate today, we have several issues and questions that are being asked to me today. It is not new in political practice for political actors to change their beliefs and for a time represent one belief, say anti-European, so they change their minds and begin to accept European beliefs. That's one evolution I would personally welcome. Of course, this isn't about, I'd say, a case like that, about plagiarizing such a belief, because persuasion is something a man can have on his own. However, when it comes to acts, written things, it is not intended to plagiarize some already completed ideas and legal projects that were already here in the procedure, so cosmetically change one member or something and then appear as the author of a pro-European law. That's, I'd say more funny than incorrect. It is normal for this government to consist of parts of the former government and parts of the people who came from an opposition party and are now in a bloc. Instead of the government saying – we have found in these archives, drawers a number of legislative projects, so as it says – we will respect what the previous government has so far been on the international agenda, for example, on Kosovo or with the EU, etc. accept... It also accepts the EU's bid. So, it goes through the previous government, even with political beliefs and wants full co-operation with the EU, harmonisation of regulations, laws and everything else. Why, then, did the Government not submit a proposal for these laws, or not to enter the authority at all, because the government had inherited one previous government, but a political party appeared, which such a law concerning human rights must stand behind, but as an initiator, of course, as an enforcer? Probably because this party has a need for this European legitimacy, so it should make it clear that it is the initiator of the greatest possible harmonisation of European legislation and of ours. It's a political use of rights. I told you once not to repeat, quoting Kanta, that it's not good. You should let the right to progress, and political games are a special job. Let's get back to it, we'll vote for the law we've been preparing. We were ready for him to vote. We'd be very strange people who change their beliefs overnight, so once we were for one such law, and now that we're not in power, we from the opposition will vote against our own beliefs against that law. We won't. We said we would support the government if it goes our way, through European integration and through the harmonisation of our legislation with European legislation. We have one problem that's a little deeper and I would ask for an understanding not only of the former government and the former government but also of future governments. It's normal that I don't quote someone again, I apologize, because it's always in my head, from the great people of Rco who said -- let's go from people who are and from the laws that they could be. This—what kind of people they are is a little too wide. I'd say, "Let's go from our society to what it is and what the law might be." But we have an additional problem here -- what they have to be if we want to be in the EU. We should consider all that. These laws concern the matter of human rights. It is the foundation of the Council of Europe and there is not much compromise on whether any exceptions will be tolerated. However, we have a historical problem. It's easy for Germany to have a notebook. Whenever you want, you can find information in both Germany and Holland when someone bought a bakery, from whom and how much they paid. Find a document with us. Besides the rest of the historical heritage, there is a lack of affection for the document. You saw that in the attic of St. Mark's Church, they ate mice so much archive, and what about our archives at all. We don't respect the written document. With two witnesses, we've been proving for many years what anyone more wanted. It's an oral culture. We believed more in the word than in the written document. It needs to be changed, our resistance to the rule of law that speaks, just so I don't mention anything else, about illegal construction that is enormous and unimaginable where people don't respect the law, but we're going to have to respect the law. So as one oral culture, we believed more in the word than in the written document. That needs to be changed. Our resistance to the rule of law, which only says that, I don't mention anything else, except illegal construction that is enormous and unimaginable, where people won't respect the law. But we'll have to obey the law. We have a problem here now. It's good, here's what they told us from the European Commission, we have to bring in the notebooks, and of course we have to have land books. We've passed the Restitution Act, but in one good part of the country we don't have land books and we don't really know what it is. Then the state sells, the owner of the state doesn't own at all. We haven't even solved the ownership issues. But this isn't just a matter of mentality, this is a historical question. It is easy for countries that have not changed the order and that simply have certain frameworks in which they live, etc. With us, these boundaries and social systems have changed as much as they wanted. There have been nationalisation, denationalisation, issues of elemental nature, such as property issues, remain extremely hard for us to prove and which pose a major problem. It all stands, and when we conduct discussions, we have to make sure that, in the context of the whole effort, that as much as we lead to the rule of law, we are aware of all these shortcomings. Now in spite of them, instead of sort of blaspheming it all, we need to know if we want to get in line, not just the EU, but in order, developed, free democratic countries, we need to legalise ourselves as a country. That political trick, who's going to be there, isn't going to help much. If it comes, one day, we will see, by that moment, that we start negotiations with the EU, right at the beginning, we will have these very human rights issues which, of course, include judicial laws and everything else. We're going to have to synchronise that. That's the first head he's gonna start with in that debate. It's a good thing it's being prepared. It's not worth any time. It's not gonna help us. That's what we're gonna have to do. If we want to. If we think we're going to hang a badge, some kind of pro-European, and then we're going to keep it as old, then we're wrong. He went to a colleague to tell him, be careful, that step by step of the Europeans. The government has brought two, proposed, passed, a law, at least two, which is a step back from European synchronisation. It is a threat, a political threat to the independent institutions of the National Bank, which immediately drew everyone's attention to us internationally, and which is the most important financial circles and other threat to the independent administration of the Ministry Act, under which the minister can now put people, who have passed the state exam, who represent experts in the field of administration, by their will after a month and a few days, that he has now arbitration, whom he will fire and who will remain. Those are steps back. If, the government of the present, ruling coalition thinks it will still be able to take steps backwards in many things, precisely at the threat of law, what you're going to say is that you're declaring criminals whoever you want, and it's known that you can't, without proof and judicial confirmation of a decision, be disqualified. The abuse of the media in this sense has reached enormous conditions, creating a climate of intimidation. It's all this old stuff, no one's here anymore can scare anybody else, no one can do anything in this country without anyone noticing anything. He's very wrong about who he thinks and every form of intimidation, rematchism, quick political solution to the issue will not help us. We face enormous difficulties as a society. Financially, we'll see, now this encounter with reality will be a traumatic spirit. We've got huge natural disasters, big money, huge poverty, strikes, a million things. How we as a society will survive without elementary respect and human rights, and dignity, and something called freedom. Freedom can't be seen as air when it's there, but when it's not there, when it's threatened, then people react harder than in any other case. Therefore, if you pass laws that are in line with European legislation, our intensities, for 22 years I have represented European ideas here, we will always vote for it, but for every step you take backwards, count on our strongest criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1262	Thank you. Mr. Cvian has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1263	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not debate here today on the subject of changing political beliefs. I'm sure some of the speakers before me have much more experience, changing their confidence ten times. I have to look back at one part of the exhibition, and I'm going to say an open name, so I'm going to make it possible for a replica, if there is a need, Mr. Micunovic, and one statement recently made by former Minister Snezana Malovic in front of the cameras, which is that this law is plagiarism. As a lawyer, I am horrified by that statement, because anyone who has finished law knows that the law is not an authorial act. The law is not protected as an authorial act and the law does not fall under the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, so it cannot be plagiarism. Number one. Two, it's no problem, and we've already said that the previous regime had here and there a desire to pass a law like this, that the former regime once and put a similar law, not the same, in the procedure. Let's not lie and that law, as well as the one we wrote, is written first thanks to expert consultations with experts in this area and with NGOs. It's no problem for me to publicly say today that we've consulted NGOs like Pracsis, NGOs like the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies. I even wrote the brochure "Pracsis", very well written, and I brought it to this discussion today. So laws are not property and laws are not copyrighted. On the other hand, the much more important fact is that we put this law into practice and it will be adopted. There was plenty of time for the former regime to adopt the law. They had good intentions, but we'll agree that between good intentions and concrete steps, it's not the same thing. We put the law in the process, and I would really like to ask the former justice minister and my dear colleague Snezana Malović, so here I hear that Mr Micunović said that, therefore, the law is not an authorial act, it cannot be a plagiarism. The previous regime didn't write its own draft laws, I hope, alone, but wrote in co-operation with experts. You're about to adopt him. We will pass the law and we are not ashamed to say that we used professional public services, NGOs, people who know this matter. Of course, this law is different from the law which, in its own time, proposed by the DS that this law would be passed. And it's not plagiarism, because I repeat once again, the law is not an authorial act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1264	Thank you. Snow White Malovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1265	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very shy in the opening statement as to how the proposal for a law tabled by 61 SNS MPs came to pass. So, it wasn't the fact that preceded this bill. Namely, because of the citizens of Serbia and on the subject of what my colleague Cvian said, I will say that this law was filed by the government of the Republic of Serbia on 31 January this year by the Ministry of Justice. Prior to that, the Citizens' Protector Mr. Sasa Jankovic sent an initiative to amend the Law on the Vanparnical Procedure, because it was really necessary to edit the area of so-called. Legally invisible faces. The government of the Republic of Serbia when it was formed has withdrawn all the laws, and then what is completely unusual is the law passed by the SNS parliamentary group. I also ask the legislator this time, since the current minister of justice and the state administration cannot ask, because he is not present, the proposal has not been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why has the parliamentary group done so, what is behind it, whether it is fear, whether the minister cannot come or is something else? Also, we will have the opportunity to say more about this in principle today's discussion, but of course the discussion on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1266	The word is Mr. Cvian, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1267	I will remind myself that in the opening statement, and also later during a discussion with my colleagues from the DSS, and even commended that one of the good moves of the former justice ministry is that the law that regulates the issues of legally invisible persons is put in the procedure of January this year. So, that's what I said, I said it openly. They're gonna do it again, one of the few good moves. That law, I remind you, has not been passed. We're on our way today to get the law passed. It's not the exact text of that law that was proposed at the time, and this day, they're similar to the regulation of similar matter, it's logical to be similar. We are convinced that this law we have proposed in front of the SNS and for the shade is better, but still, as far as Minister Selakovic is concerned. Indeed, he's so afraid to come out to defend this law that he'll be here tomorrow. He'll be here tomorrow. You can ask him what you want. We've received official confirmation that he'll be here. But I'm still staying on it, so I see that nobody answered me, and he couldn't answer because of course I'm right, but the law can't be plagiarized. The law is not an author's work, and we, like the previous government, used the experience of NGOs and the professional public in writing this law, only improved the solutions that were made since January 2012. We've brought in some additional facts and we think that's why our law is better. So there's no word about plagiarism, and the basic difference between us how we do now and the previous regime is that the previous regime said it would do something, and we're going to do it. We're going to pass a law that's really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1268	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just heard in the discussion that it is a plagiarist law because it was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous term, was withdrawn by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia and then joined by 61 of the SNS MPs and we did not get an answer to the question why this law was not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why the current minister did not defend it, but was already done by SNS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1270	Thank you. Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1271	I don't know if I speak Serbian, if we don't understand each other, I can speak English, Russian, German, it's not a problem. As I said, one of the good moves of the former regime and the former ministry of justice, one of the few good moves was to set a law that regulates matter legally - invisible in the procedure at the beginning of this year. That law is withdrawn. This law that the SNS is proposing today is similar, but it's improved, it's somewhat different, and we've all written these laws again in consultation with the professional public. The basic difference is that our law that we have proposed will be passed. They repeat once again, it's not the same law, it's similar, it regulates similar matter. This law that we have proposed is more advanced, but the plagiarism is not spoken of, and there is no speech in particular because it is not an author's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1272	Thank you. Mr. Micunović. Please, just sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1273	But I don't see what's going on here, I'm just surprised that Mr. Cvian is chasing the bill and the law. The proposal can be plagiarism, absolutely certain, but the law adopted by the Assembly and it is a general act and there is no competition there, because it is within the legal framework. The problem was the proposal. The proposal can, I hear from a friend who's prepared a proposal, and now I run out and say here's what I'm proposing, and there's a document that he's already done before. So the bill of law can be plagiarism and here we have this particular case, and there would be no dispute. I said in the previous presentation, that the government normally found it in drawers, she knows, followed that the law was withdrawn. We're putting him back in the process, so we can even get him a little dressed up. It's all right. We wouldn't have a problem. We welcomed the government to take the reform European path. When one political party appears, it has nothing more to do with the government. It is now one political initiative of a political party. That's plagiarism. The plagiarism is therefore an initiative in the proposal. I welcome the movement of SNS on the European path and European course, but let it be known that this European course was defended 22 years ago, defended today and that we simply know who is who and who is what. Everyone has the right of course to have both opinions, new and other, initiatives whatever they want. That's just it, no problem. The law will be a law in general, when we declare it, there will be no more authority, but the initiative, just as a proposal, has as we mention that the protecter of citizens has taken the initiative. Let's say it's undeniable, but now if someone else said, "No, I took the initiative," then it's plagiarizing other people's ideas. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1274	Thank you. Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1275	With the circumstances, I've just mastered intellectual property, so I know the matter in detail, so if you don't mind Professor Micunović respecting your experience and schooling in some other areas, you obviously haven't studied the law. Read Article 6. The law on copyright and related rights, so you'll see that the draft law as official material is also not an authorial act. Again, we can't speak -- neither is the bill, nor is the law, nor is it official material. That's the kind of thing students used to fall for in my exam, but good. This was really very well-intentioned. It's not an author's work, and I repeat once again, and our law that we have proposed is still different from what was proposed six months ago, and I am convinced that for those shades it's a little bit better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1276	Thank you. Mr. Micunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1277	Well, I don't know, follow my schooling. Otherwise, if you'd followed him well, you'd know I went to law school, but now we're putting aside. If you want to end up, you know very well that in many countries the law of Lloyd, George, or this or that is mentioned by the author, the initiator of that law of 200 years. So it's not a bit of an anonymous thing now, there's an authorship, be sure and no one's going to ask for an copyright fee, because it's not a copyright or a fee. In the normal sense of historical monitoring, you know who's making the proposal, no matter what the draft is. You're defending it, not someone else. That's why you show up here, not any of us when it's a general act. You signed it. This fact that a group signed it as a proposal, or a draft now at this stage where you give it, so as soon as it's signed behind it are the authors who signed it. The rest of us, some will vote against this law in this assembly, they are not authors. You can't make the whole congregation commit to being the author of it. That's a lot of simple questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1278	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two legislative proposals practically, this morning, on the Committee of Justice, of all parliamentary groups, were practically supported. I don't see any reason to think too much about this whole thing. First of all, one legal proposal relating to public notebooks is, in fact, just a delay in the procedure and the application of this law. Of course, it should be extremely careful when this new institute is practically being introduced, because there are extremely positive things when this law is being prolonged, and of course there are things that may need to be changed, because it is extremely sensitive matter, there are also certain experiences from countries in the environment that have passed such a law, and ultimately it is not just those 100 public notebooks, far more dangerous for the citizens of Serbia, that if there is a bad application, there will be a certain legal uncertainty, and therefore I believe that not only because of this deadline, it should be reconsidered once again when it comes to public notebooks, because it is one huge responsibility that public notebooks will first have, and of course, those who make such legal proposals. After all, all laws are passed in the interests of Serbian citizens and of course certain legal certainty. I think it's the subject and that's the way to think. You don't need to be too busy, if there's a formal error, is that a fundamental problem? Of course, we do not need to talk about who the applicant is and who proposes such a legal proposal. I think it's irrelevant and that you don't have to waste too much on that. I'll take a closer look at the draft law supplementing the law on extra-parny proceedings. The New Serbia parliamentary group believes that the proposed addition of the Law on Out-of-pard procedure is a good initiative that aims exclusively at enabling the permanent resolution of the status legal position around, according to rough estimates, as we have said here, six and a half thousand citizens and some of them may be assumptions that there are up to 20,000. I use the term here on purpose – they reside, given that these persons, according to existing legal solutions, are not able to prove even the fact of their birth without prior entry into a lengthy and uncertain litigation process, as a starting point for regulating their status in any other respect. For the Republic of Serbia, which presupposes that its legislation and the entire legal system have all the attributes that have legal systems of regulated states, it is absolutely unsustainable that in this area is an insurmountable obstacle that practically one whole amendment, I suppose, our citizens are to start enrolling in the birth certificates, and that after that the remaining rights which are generally accepted by the principles of international law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are guaranteed to each person. Among these rights is the right to vote, as one of the basic ones, as one of the main ones in modern democracies, so the New Serbia parliamentary group sees this initiative as a small and initial one and therefore a very important step on the way to the permanent organisation of the single electoral list and its finalisation of the real state of affairs when it comes to the total number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia with the right to vote. There are certain members of this proposal to amend and supplement the law that I will comment on. In Article 25 of the Law on Book of Origin, only one place is provided for the Lapidor provision that the parent information on the birth which is registered after the expiry of 30 days from the date of birth may be entered in the parent book of birth solely on the basis of the decision of the competent authority, without further involvement in what authority is competent and in what procedure such a solution is taken. The current practice that interested persons are referring to a litigation process, or, worse still, they refuse, proved to be bad and as a consequence of this practice we have found a situation in this area. Humanly speaking, it's really incomprehensible to me that someone who doesn't exist legally can function at all as a person, how they are educated, how they are treated, in one word -- how does he live? I believe that the introduction of a procedure for determining the time and place of birth in the form of a special continent in the Law on extraparation is the right way to define this procedure adequately and comprehensively. I must stress that the legislative proposal that is before us from the aspect of nomotechnics as a profession is quality and legal-technically consistently done. In any case, this is an incomparable better solution than the original proposal withdrawn from the congregation procedure. In particular, a good solution is in Article 71b. which is defined as taking action on a proposal to determine the time and place of birth is the local court responsible for each really competent court, which greatly facilitates the initial step of the person who has a legal interest in the conduct of this procedure. In Article 71. It is foreseen that the full initiative by the court is, which is a good solution because it is the court who, upon receipt of the proposal for the determination of the time and place of birth, contacts the Ministry and leaves these authorities with a period of 30 days to deliver the requested feedback, and has the discretion to address the same requirements to other authorities and institutions, as well as to the competent authorities of the foreign country. I think it is very good that the provisions of the 71st Court are obliged to make a decision within 90 days, or 120 days of the day of submission, which determines the time and place of birth. In this way, the person who submits the proposal in question knows exactly what time limits he is facing in the process of determining this fact. This also applies to deadlines defining the procedure under a possible appeal. It is perfectly logical, taking into account the position of the promoter, that in this specific procedure the person is released and the payment of the court fee, as well as the costs, of any skill. All in all, I must point out that this bill, first of all, is extremely human, because it puts firstly persons who live without regulated legal status for years, and that every provision of the bill gives rise to the proposal that these people should not only finally regulate their status, but also that this procedure is not a common judicial murmuring for them, but a clearly defined framework within which exactly what is necessary is known, in order to determine the fact of someone's birth. So the New Serbia parliamentary group will support these two legislative proposals. We'll vote for them, of course there's a lot more to change, but about that some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1280	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1281	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I explain these two draft laws, and our position on this matter, I believe that I have an obligation to point out one fact, which was pointed out by MP LDP Bojan Djuric, at the beginning of this session, which is that Article 205 paragraph 2 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because we did not get from the Government of the Republic of Serbia three days before the day for asking parliamentary questions, which the ministers from the government will not be present. From the president of the National Assembly, we had an opportunity to hear that he has assurances that tomorrow at 4:00 p.m., all the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be here, and you told us an hour ago that certain ministers will not be present tomorrow. This only shows the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards this home, and this Assembly, these MPs have chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not elected MPs. I want to say that Mr. Djuric was absolutely right, that Article 205 of Section 2 was violated. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I hope that this will not happen in the future. As for the proposal of these two laws, we had the opportunity to hear about the Law on Public Registration, where many MPs, including the Proposer, spoke about notaries and that this is what Serbia needs. We don't have that law on the agenda at all, the law's passed, but we just have a pro-longing deadline to apply the law. From Mr. Djuric you had a clear view of the LDP, that a major error was made here with the promoter, which you have to correct with the amendment, so you don't have a legal vacuum for a few days, and I assume you'll adopt it. As for the Law on the Extraparnical Procedure, the quality of the proposal was given by the applicant, the fact that we received a proposal from the SNS on 13 August, from their MPs, and 21 August, after all, only eight days, the proposal was withdrawn from the procedure and we received a new amended text. The text is better than that proposal we received on August 13th, which means they were consultations, but it's still not good enough, and it's not good enough to help people who are without basic documents, if that's what this Parliament wants. In the light of the law, it states that the Law on Parent Books is not a satisfactory way of enrolling in a book of born adults, which does not have the necessary documents, whose parents are unknown or unreachable, so such persons are referred to the conduct of a litigation procedure. From this finding, the legislator concludes that it is necessary to implement the complementarity of the Act on non-partisan procedure, because it is by its nature the most appropriate. To what views and facts does the Proposer say that the most appropriate amendment to the Law on non-parnishment proceedings, what views and facts have been conducted when it has been assessed as the most appropriate? That was supposed to be explained in the bill. We believe that the most suitable solution for these citizens there are, we heard, somewhere around 7,000, was the solution to supplement the Law on Parent Books. The addition of this law to a special section would be the most suitable, most efficient, most functional solution, especially for those persons seeking to determine the facts of the time and place of birth. You have shown this, as a proposer, to Article 71a, which reads: "A person who is not included in the birth certificate, and the time and place of birth cannot prove in the manner provided for in the regulations governing the management of the parent books, can submit a proposal to the court to determine the time and place of birth (providing birth). "What exactly is this about? Namely, in a court of law, this person can exercise his rights, but before he has to go to the authority of the administration, he must go to the municipality and the parent service. What you have written in the reasoning of the law, in the third section, you say, "In order to launch the out-of-party procedure in question, there is no need for a decision by the body of the parent book management authority to refuse the request for subsequent enrolment in the MKR, given that the facts of the time and place of birth will be determined before the court", it absolutely does not stand in Article 71a, the first position. Here, in the first place, you say that such a right has only a person who could not exercise his right to the authority, which is the parent service in every municipality. That means you've completed the Home Book Act. It is, above all, effective, functional and would make it easier for these citizens to register with the MKR. This way you send them back to the administration's office first, you send them to the mothermaker. You can't say that the court will be able to do it without a solution to your winnings, because you didn't say it in article 71a at the time. He'll be able to work on that case. When I say this, that the most appropriate law was the Law on Parent Books, I also have in mind the fact that the Authority of the Administration, in terms of the General Administrative Procedure Act, can use any means appropriate to determine certain facts, i.e. hearing of witnesses and statements of parties, documents and other means of proof containing this proposal. This way, we're going to have packed dishes with one six to seven thousand cases. As far as the local jurisdiction of Article 71b is concerned, I think you should have defined it a little better, because there is a reasonable doubt that the same person, I will not be talking here about foreigners, or citizens of another country, but people born in Serbia, will be able to achieve their right in several municipalities under different names and last names and with different parent numbers, because on the basis of which the competent court will know whether that person, for example, the days enrolled in Negotina, and in 15 days in Leskovec. For this reason, I believe that the proposer needed this Article 71b. It's better to define. Furthermore, you said this, in the light of the law, that implementing it does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget and in Article 71i. You predicted that it was for the citizens free and we fully support it, to be free for the citizens, but you said the cost of skill in article 71i. Pay the courts. The courts don't have that kind of money for art. If out of those 7,000, only 3,500 are supposed to go to art, let's call it an artisan 20,000, that's 70 million dinars. Where did those dishes come from? This requires funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we fully agree that it should be free of charge for citizens, but you must provide funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to courts, because certainly the skill will be at least for half of these citizens, if not for every citizen. This was to be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that this is not the most suitable solution you have found. We've made amendments. I hope you'll take a careful look at the amendment that we submitted to Article 71a, because this is a procedural law, and by procedural law you can't change the term in the parent law that's been defined by the book of origin. He can't stand here in parentheses - proof of birth. The birth is not proven, the man is before you, it is seen that he was born, but the fact of birth is determined, and it is time and place. The law on birth certificates in Article 21 speaks of the fact of birth, in Article 23 on the fact of birth, in Article 25 on the fact, in section three of the MKR, we have again the fact of birth which is entered, in Article 50, the entry for a found person whose parents are not known, in Article 51, for a child without parental ageing, in Article 52, for adopters and everywhere uses the term of fact of birth. You can't tell the law that we're proving our birth. I guess the man came to file for the born. So we determine the fact of birth, it's time and place. As a political party, we have made every effort to submit four amendments. We believe that the proposer will carefully read our amendments, and in particular the amendment to Article 71a, in order to bring the terminology provided for in this law in line with the terminology already provided for in the Law on Parent Books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1282	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1283	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on non-partisan procedure contribute to the fact that a social phenomenon and the environment, which has been systemically unregulated so far, is finally covered by a legal solution and thus enables a part of the population, which is called invisible persons here, to obtain its legitimate status. It is no doubt that the amendments and additions of the Law on extra-parnical procedure, as proposed, provide social protection and social care to this particular Corps, to those persons whose protection and care has not been provided so far. It is evident that these individuals, as it is now indicated, who are over 6,500, could not, precisely because of this situation, achieve their human rights and freedoms, and even those freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. However, attention should be paid to the fact that right now, when the proposed amendments and additions to the law on non-partisan proceedings are passed, I am convinced that they will be voted upon, these persons are placed precisely in the category in which they have long deserved to be classified, and unfortunately, they were not. Quality, the objective of amending and supplementing the Law on non-parnical procedure has been fully achieved. However, given that it is a legal solution of a procedural and legal nature, it should be taken into account the practical application of amendments and additions to the Law on non-partisan procedure. Why? It is precisely because courts and judges would not needlessly be burdened and mortgaged by ineffectiveness. Inefficiencies are mainly due to inapplicable, more difficult, or impractical legal solutions. I'm saying this because courts are normally burdened with calling them ineffective, and I've pointed out what's due to ineffectiveness. I therefore believe that it is good that the original amendment and the addition of the Law on the non-parony procedure is definitely amended, which is corrected by the amendments that the MPs have received, which the MPs have pointed out and that the quality of these amendments will be accepted, both by the promoters and by all those who support this amendment and the addition of the Law, and the SPS undoubtedly supports these amendments and the additions of the Outsider Procedure Act. There are certain misunderstandings, as always, in every legal solution, which should be regulated later by court practice. However, in this part and the Socialist Party of Serbia, as a supporter of this proposal, and I am confident that the proposal will make its full contribution not to allow court practice to rise above the law, because the law must cover all aspects of what the law defines, and even in that sense, we must not allow one legal solution, as it stands for now, to be corrected, in terms of its quality, to remain as it is. What's this about? We cannot allow the order of a court which is imperative, which is binding to be ignored by the Ministry of Interior, the parent services, the authorities and the institutions which are required to act by order of the court and to provide appropriate information on the records, i.e. facts contained in the records relating to a person whose claim for the determination of the facts of birth is resolved before the competent court. Why does this stand out? Because the consequences of ignoring such a warrant, from any subject which I have now cited, could be directly reflected in the court, which would also lead to the question of the legal interest of the person who put the proposal before the court, to establish the appropriate fact which is sought, and for the person to whom the fact applies, the concrete fact of birth. Therefore, any institution, body or any entity to whom the order is sent is obliged to act, because otherwise the court would come into one major problem, and this problem implies the following - that there is no concentration of evidence, that there is no respect for the principle of material truth, that the final decision of the court is made on the basis of evidence that does not have the necessary evidence capacity and ultimately, the old story again, that the courts are ineffective. So I am convinced that together, as I have spoken to my esteemed colleague Cvian, we will have the opportunity to fix exactly this legal proposal, as it is contained, and to whom I have referred, this earlier, which is absolutely not the exact fact addressed to my colleague Cvian, that the deadline for the amendment has expired. That's not true. It is according to the Rules of Procedure that the Committee of the Assembly can make an amendment, following the principled debate and before the discussion of the details begins. That is why, I will also stand on my stand in the Committee of Justice and insist with my colleagues on correcting such a solution. I also hope that in practice, the courts will have a very clear view of the mandatory hearing of two adult witnesses, because it is evidence that must not be unthinked and misused. It would be logical to be heard by those who have the most direct knowledge of the facts relating to birth, the one who has a legal interest in putting forward a proposal, or the person to whom the fact applies. It may be how those persons who lived with him, how they can be his relatives, or anyone else who can give that direct knowledge to the court. However, here the legislator, or promoter, cannot qualitatively correct the legal text, leaving doubt that the court with special care, and with special care, is taking care of the carrying out of this evidence. Finally, it can be concluded that the quality of the legal solution is necessary because all those who were outside the system of the circumstances are under legal certainty and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1284	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to attend today's session and that the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the parliamentary group of the Serbian Progressive Party, as now the ruling party in Serbia, has accepted the fact that the election campaign is over. Both laws under discussion today are the laws of the former Ministry of Justice and the Law on Public Libraries and Amendments to the Law on the Extraparnical Procedure. I am particularly pleased when it comes to the law on public notebooks that when this law was opened and discussed, there were no other objections to the text of the law itself, but only the practical delay in the application of the law, which I have to say who someone who has done it specifically, I really do have an understanding because the election campaign has led to a standstill in the application of the Law on Public Records. This is for one fundamental reason, which is that we considered it to be the Ministry of Justice that it would be inappropriate for us, as the outgoing government, to choose public notaries, to be the story that the Democratic Party did so at its discretion. We didn't do it even though we had enough sublegal acts to do it, but we left it to the new minister and the new government, and it will be their responsibility. On the other hand, I can understand that it takes six months or a certain period to enter into preparation and to adopt the Law on Public Records. I have personally worked on this law as well as on the Law of Off-pard procedure, which is very similar to what we as Government then and as the Ministry of Justice have proposed. The law is extremely important because it regulates an area of people who simply for a long time did not matter to society itself. These are mostly illiterate people, the term is "rightly invisible" because they had no opportunity or mechanisms to enroll in Serbian citizens, so to speak. These are of course persons to be helped because precisely because of the lack of funding from one side and education, and literacy, they have not done so so far. I'm sure most of that's exactly what the Roma population is. What bothers me and there's been a lot of discussion today, but I also need to look back on that circumstance. I deeply believe that whoever forms a government is doing this and the government will in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the vast majority of today in the National Assembly supports the idea of European integration. That's why I think there should be continuity in one serious state. What the former government did well obviously wrote these laws well, it should continue, and what was not right to change. If we're talking about concrete things that are well done, and obviously there are. I will remind you that, among other things, we have proposed more than 80 laws for the previous four years, including the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, including the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, and these are all very important laws for one society, which the European Commission has fully supported. So there's going to be a lot of laws that were key, and I have to remind you, because it was a key activity of the Justice Ministry when it comes to visa liberalisation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, getting candidate status. The law amending the law on extra-parnical procedure, a law that should help sign and obtain citizenship, "legally invisible persons", is also very important. It is good that this law is on the agenda today and it would certainly be one of the conditions, if I can say so for the date of the negotiations and that is something I personally support and what I will vote for both one law and another, not only as someone who has worked on it, but because it is simply good for Serbia. What is a problem, when I was talking about legal continuity, about continuing the good stuff of the previous government, is that today there is no minister of justice here with us who would propose these laws. I think that was most logical because his ministry in the former assembly did it, suggested, the government pulled it back and it's part of a normal democratic procedure, all the laws, but when he brought them back. I don't think I'd answer my word today, but I'd just vote for those laws. I don't think it's right that one political party, specifically the SNS, takes credit for not the Ministry of Justice and not the DS because those two laws were passed by the government and are the result of all political parties, including those who were then in the government, who are now in the government and have also now supported the law and supported it before in January as a good solution. I think that's a question, a good political practice that would facilitate co-operation between the government and the opposition, and of course the idea is if we're a constructive opposition we want to be recognized for those things that we did well, and for some of the other things that we did badly, to criticize each other and defend ourselves. In this sense, these laws are very important for the continuation of European integration. I just want to remind myself of another law that I regret not being returned today to the Assembly which is also part of the Corps that was in the Assembly, and extremely important, it's not about these two topics, but I'd like to find myself soon, I'd like to propose it to the Ministry of Justice. It's a law on special treatment when it comes to pedophiles and rapists. The law is also in place with this law in the Assembly and there is no reason why the government should not return it. We can propose it, of course, as a representative group of DS, as someone who worked on it, but I'm not running away from being proposed by the current Justice Ministry and voting for it. The law is equally important, it regulates issues of harsher and fairer judgment and control, he wanted to say – the two worst possible crimes anyone could commit, these are questions of paedophiles and rapists, and there was really no reason for today's joint debate and for this law to be found and, of course, to put an end to these issues. Therefore, it is extremely important that we co-operate between the opposition and the authorities, we know how it is done, we want to help, but there must simply be constructiveness on the other hand and say that – gentlemen, you did this well, you wrote these laws well, and that we do not talk about that with individual representatives here I worked together on these laws that are now a member of other political parties and there is simply a consensus about the text itself. What is particularly important is that I do not owe it to all the laws that the government is doing, especially sensitive, when it comes to EU consultation of the European Commission. We have received a positive opinion from the European Commission on our proposal for a law on non-partisan procedure. There have been minor changes here, my question is whether these changes have been consulted, because after that you are entering into a problem that you have to re-enter the amendments to the law, to change, because you have to comply with European standards. Therefore, I support the texts of the law, and I think this is a good practice to propose laws that are in the interest of everyone, regardless of whether they were done by the former government or present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1286	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll take my first chance at making a commitment to my colleague, Homen. The law you mentioned, in a people known as "Maria's Law", according to Maria Jovanovic of Novi Sad, I don't know what happened to that draft but you reminded me, an interesting text that should probably be studied one more time. On the other hand, when we talk about the Law on Public Registration, I said at the beginning of the exposure that it was good that it was finally adopted in 2010, because although it is 10 years late in relation to countries in the environment. However, at no point did I say he was great, but these six months, which we will now have will be a good opportunity until he is really starting to apply, that through expert discussions and consultations and with the maximum use of the experiences of our respected professors who have also worked on making these laws, some and some improved text has been made. So I agree on that side. There's one thing I can't agree on that was brought out earlier. It is mentioned that one of the reasons he's late with the notary story, with the public notebooks, was that it was a pre-election campaign. If something had to be done during the election campaign on this point in some period, so let's face it, I have to remind you that the law was passed on 9 May 2010 in three months, the minister of justice was supposed to pass the rule on the public record exam. That rule was passed with a year of delay, precisely said on 21 September 2011, it was not a pre-election campaign at the time. Therefore, there is no excuse for the Ministry of Justice of the former regime which was late with the adoption of sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of this law, and these acts were late in 2010, 2011 and in part in 2012, at the beginning of the year, for a simple reason, and there was no pre-election campaign. The fact that the notaries were later appointed at the time of the election campaign is also good, that is correct, who knows what would come out of it. We know how the judges were appointed, God knows what a notary appointment would look like, but therefore, we cannot accept the argument that the pre-election campaign is an excuse for the Ministry of Justice of the former regime why it is late for the notary system in Serbia. You reminded me well, and I'll get it over with, I'll personally check what happened to Maria's Law, as I recall it was a really good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1288	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1289	Just a quick answer. As far as sublegal acts are concerned, they were brought except for one, which is a tariff that can't be brought without the opinion of the Notary Chamber, and she couldn't until you chose notaries. As for the delay, I have to say something to my esteemed colleague Cvian, and I think he already knows that the law and all the sublegal acts were done in close cooperation with the German GTZ in which he financed the production of sublegal acts. Since we were following the working group's terms and methods, financed by the German GTZ, we couldn't speed up or intend to spoil the text of the law ourselves. Simple law is a general text, and we all know very well that the essential application of any law in any area depends on sublegal acts. Therefore, it is one chain round, but as you said well, this law should have been passed, I will not agree with you 10 years ago, but 20 years ago at the beginning of a more party system and changes in Serbia as early as '90. We'd have a system to date. Since it was not brought in and we were the first to enter into the making and proposing the adoption of the law in 2010, we felt that we should not rush past German experts in order not to damage ourselves. In that sense, it did last longer and have been a certain deadline broken, but not by our guilt but by the working group that it was working on. I will remind you that there have been dozens of professional visits to various institutions, and ultimately, someone who is still at the Ministry of Justice as assistant minister led there specifically. He was just in charge, that he was doing a bad job, I guess he'd be replaced. As soon as the assistant minister remains, I assume you're pleased with his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1290	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shajin has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of dealing with the controversy about who has the authority over this law, but since an esteemed colleague of the DS professor has just opened that issue, I would like to remind him and his DS colleagues of one set of events that probably everybody knows, but just to remind ourselves of some documents and to see that it's not quite so. In 2006, a strategy on integration and giving greater power to the Roma was adopted. By circumstances, I was then president of the Executive Board of the National Council, and then we said in this document for the first time that conditions must be created that legally invisible persons, practically make themselves legally visible and that legal conditions are created that they really happen. In 2007, in a term when the Roma Party was a parliamentary party, Mr Davor Arko, a UNHCR representative, agreed in a conversation with me to initiate then in the government the passing of the law too. However, there was nothing left in the meeting with Minister Markovic because Mr Markovic was not simply ready to do such a thing. If it wasn't a mere fiction, because I'm not telling a story that you can or now deny tomorrow, I'm just going to read to you what Mr. Simeon said about this issue and he says this – it is also pointed out that the Ministry of State Administration during the debate of the state and civil society on how to solve this problem took a stand to solve the problems of legally invisible enough better application of existing regulations. So he says very clearly that there is no need for new regulations to be passed, he continues to say that the five million dinars he has singled out and another 70m euros that were then received in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Roma integration are sufficient funds to resolve the issue without changing the legislative framework. Obviously, he was wrong at the time, obviously not to inform us about what he was doing, obviously to interfere with a job that he didn't know, without saying either the minister of justice or the secretary of state at the Justice Department, and that's one of the reasons why we took up as the Roma Party a very clear view of DS policy in relation to the Roma. No less correct were your coalition partners and the National Council, whose president was your coalition partner at the time, and I hope that today he will no longer be the Secretary of State and that we will put an end to this National Council and how we will put an end to it because he has not done what he needs to do, kept silent all the time, sat here in the parliamentary benches, and probably from some of you personal relations with the coalition partners back then did not come to this. Why does this law suggest someone from the National Assembly if you consider it irrelevant what the representatives of the Council of Europe and Mr Thomas Hanorge say? He says he expects serious help from parliament in resolving this problem. I see no other way for Parliament to help, except by proposing a legal project. It is obvious that we today have a conflict of two political philosophies in Serbia. One political philosophy is – I understand you, that you expect the government to do everything, that the government be executive and legislative authority, that the government should not have control, that the government can adopt what it initiates in parliament, but until the government brings a certain solution, please, gentlemen, no one in this country has the right to interfere in its business. It's a little different today. We have a law initiated by MPs, a SNS parliamentary group, within which the Roma Party is also, and I think it's a quality. The constitution speaks clearly of who has the right to initiate laws, who has the right to pass laws. Today is a different reality. That reality is going that way to fight corruption and start on these topics. I've established this law one balance between two things. On the one hand, we have legally invisible persons, which, for reasons they do not possess, which are not recognised, are not a fact of their birth, which does not mean only a place and a date, which means the name, last name, gender and other elements needed to be entered into the parent books, that one part of the population, there are about six and a half thousand people, cannot participate in the exercise of their basic rights. Now all I'm talking about is the right to enroll in birth certificates and get citizenship. Of course, I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have spoken, that we have not yet created an adequate legal framework for these people to enjoy these rights, because unless we change the Law on the ID card, unless we define in a new and quality way how the people of Belville, who are exiled in the worst way, how displaced persons from Kosovo, whether they are Roma, Serbs or members of another national community, for the reasons that they have burned down their books, for the reasons that they are expelled from these territories, how they will come to a personal map even though they have a certificate of citizenship, even though they have a copy of the parent books born, but simply cannot get a personal card because they do not have those elements that are spoken of, about the place of residence, and you all know that, in contrast with the place of residence, the current legal rules require that the address be clear, that they have a home number and that if there is a residential number of buildings, which is a building number, of buildings, which is a building. In this direction, as the Roma Party, we have proposed a new solution. That law has entered the procedure. We proposed it not with the idea of taking copyright on it, we expect it to be discussed at one of the next sessions, but simply to raise these issues. It doesn't matter who's going to help 30,000 people in Serbia get a ID card, it's important that 30,000 people really get ID cards, that 30,000 people, a large number of Roma, vote for that national council, not to be manipulated, because apparently they were enrolled, we should buy a little more ducks, a little more stoves, a little more money to put in our pockets, so that in the last elections for the National Council, we buy those 30,000 Roma or socially endangered, which you're talking about. It probably didn't suit anyone at the time, because they estimate that the money they have is enough to buy that part of the voter that suits them. Our task, the Roma Party, within the SNS parliamentary group, is that in this mandate, and that was our promise to the citizens, to put an end to such behaviour, to create a possibility for different behaviour in Serbia, and precisely those socially endangered are the people of this community. I'm not just talking about the Roma, I'm talking about all those other things. Kosovo's defence is not only a matter of territory, Kosovo's defence is also a relationship with people who have left the territory and cannot get personal documents. These are all the reasons why we support this law. These are all reasons why we think it's good that this law has entered the procedure. We also recommend to the Legislative Committee and to Mr Cvian as someone representing this law that we work together today and strike on it to get the best possible form for a very simple reason. A country that is in one postwar period, a country signed in 2007 to accept all those people who do not have EU ID documents from the territory of the former SFRY, to be established in Serbia, and that is what the government then did. That state has to make moves like this, it's got to solve it. We have two options, to leave chaos, to have some people turn into criminals or simply bring the state into a normal legal framework. I wouldn't hang on to this anymore. I would also say that there are a large number of people here who were formerly in the NGO, that there are a large number of people here who swear to democracy. I don't think this law, as good as it is, will be able to be implemented well with the engagement of all and that we have a firm promise in talks with representatives of international organisations that they can help solve this issue as soon as possible. One more answer why this is the first law in a series of these laws. First, conditions must be created for someone to enter the birth certificate. The next thing is when we get a document that recognizes that fact, then we have to change some other laws, probably the Law on Home Books, probably the Law on the ID card, but this is what we've created a space for us to start procedures to run in the next three or four months and just to start something concrete today, and not to have an excuse – we're not going to change today, to take that first step because we haven't yet taken that 10th step. It's a new philosophy. Don't throw dust in our eyes so there's nothing we can do. Let's take a ride, it's a proposing, and he had an idea for a leader, let's take the first step that's most important in solving a problem. Of course all these steps you're talking about must come. As for the following law, on public records, I would ask the Legislative Committee and Mr Cvian to accept one idea and to amend it, to remove one discriminatory element in the existing Law on Public Libraries, and that element is next. The existing solution says that in the territory of a country where the language of a national minority is in official use it creates certain obligations for public notaries to have from the ranks of that national minority or in agreement with translators, to ensure that these people are able to work in the languages of that national minority. It's no wonder. A representative of the Roma national community, who had to worry more about other matters in the past term, whether the National Council to deal with issues of business and to organise public works, instead of saying here – stop a bit, we are solving the issue of national communities concentrated in northern Serbia and southern Serbia, but we continue to address issues of national communities that are dispensary and that are inhabited in the whole territory of Serbia and that have no official use of language, and then come up with the following things, that in Vojvodina, thanks to such philosophy, the Institute for the Conservation of Culture exists for the national community, which numbers 50,000 residents in Vojvodina, and not for Roma, which has 80,000 inhabitants. Furthermore, to finance the National Council in Vojvodina, those national communities of 20,000 inhabitants, not those with 60,000 inhabitants, so that in Serbia we have obligations in the Law on Public Libraries that in some areas where the official language is members of those national minorities who have 20,000 in the country and have notebooks, and the national community that counts half a million people in Serbia, which is spoken of by documents, do not. In that sense, I would ask Mr Cvian that the solution we have proposed on the Legislative Committee be your solution, because there is no other procedure, and unless it is legally possible, we will propose a safe law in that direction. There is one more thing, we believe, when it comes to a commission that appoints candidates, which is why the current former government has tripped, that it should count more members and create the possibility through the work of the Justice Minister not only in Belgrade, that it has more members, that it is possible for the minister to appoint more members in the commission and that the commission may also be in Novi Sad, perhaps in Belgrade, perhaps in southern Serbia, simply so that we can do the job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1292	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 87 and 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today will be a break between 14:00 and 15.00 hours and that we will continue our work today after 1800 hours, until the debate on this agenda is over. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1293	Thank you. On my personal behalf and on behalf of the DS, I welcome the adoption of this law, although the bill itself is accompanied by a certain controversy. We have already pointed out that we believe that this law should have been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it is being defended today by the minister of justice, not by the SNS parliamentary group. I welcome the adoption of this law for the reason I consider it a continuity with the work of the previous Justice Ministry or with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that this trend will continue in some other areas. As we have said, the initiative to adopt amendments to the law on extraparation procedure was given by the Citizens' Protector at the beginning of this year. As explained in the proposal for this law, the reason is because of the fact that there is a particular circle of persons in the Republic of Serbia that are so-called. Legally invisible persons, who do not have their legal identity and thus cannot exercise their rights guaranteed to them, not only by domestic legislation, but also by international conventions. According to analyses carried out by citizens' protectors, but also by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, it is 1.5% of members of the Roma, Askali and Egyptian community who are not enrolled in the birth certificate. It's an estimate of 6,750 people, but as we heard in the interpretation of the bill, it's probably a much larger circle of faces. Also, the Citizens' Protector, when he directed his initiative, said that those persons could not be entered in the birth certificate or in the administrative procedure, but neither in the litigation procedure through a motherhood and paternity suit or cannot exercise their right to do so in a non-partisan procedure by submitting a proposal to determine the facts of birth. I would also like to point out that, on 20 March 2012, a conference was held at this conference in the Office of the Protector of Citizens which was attended by representatives of the executive government, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and representatives of the NGO, representatives of the European Commission and representatives of independent institutions. This was when all the problems faced by legally invisible persons were considered, i.e. citizens who don't have their own legal identity. Representatives and legislative and executive authorities, as well as representatives of independent institutions and NGOs, agreed that it is socially unacceptable and legally inconceivable that in the 21st century there are persons who cannot exercise their fundamental human rights. There is no doubt that there must be no citizens in any society who have no legal subjectivity, because the right to be recognised under the law represents a civilizational activity, a fundamental human right and a prerequisite for the enjoyment of all other rights guaranteed both by domestic and international legislation. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that Serbia is a member of the Council of Europe, so that we also have certain obligations from that membership and that the Convention on Human Rights is directly applicable in our legal system. Serbia is seeking to build a society where all citizens are equal in all segments of social or political life. The fact is that a significant result has been achieved so far in the fields of protection and promotion of human and minority rights, as well as in the fight against discrimination. Independent institutions dealing with this protection have been established. However, it is totally undeniable that further efforts must be made to improve the situation of all citizens, and particularly those who need such assistance, and I think of vulnerable groups and within these vulnerable groups, it is also important to consider the issue that has been discussed here, the Roma population considered to be the poorest and most marginalised social group, but not only in Serbia, but also in other European countries. Within this group, the problem of legal invisibility is the most pronounced. In steps to protect us, as I have stated, both domestic and international legislation, but also what is also highlighted here, and the Strategy for improving the position of Roma in the Republic of Serbia. On this subject, as much has been said, I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Justice has also prepared a working version of the law on free legal aid in the previous period. The passing of this law is extremely important. In this text, special attention is paid to persons without legal identity, so that all persons who need it can have free legal assistance. The law, when adopted one day, should also introduce new uniform mechanisms for the recognition of the right to free legal assistance, which would be much more elastic than existing procedural laws, which insist on evidence, in this respect, in the form of public documents. Therefore, the use of the mechanisms provided for in the working version of this law may contribute to improving the position of a person without legal subjectivity, regardless of whether an out-of-party procedure for determining the time and place of birth has been initiated. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, I hope that the current Ministry of Justice and the state administration will have understanding and sensitivity for this area and that this law will be on the agenda of this Parliament. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would also like to point out the fact that the original text of this law in this respected House was delivered on 13 August 2012 and with a proposal to amend and supplement the Act on extra-parisal proceedings in the work of drawing up documents. However, the text was withdrawn and, on 21 August 2012, almost identical text was submitted, but with these provisions in part of the Act on non-partisan proceedings concerning the determination of the time and place of birth. I will be completely open and honest, although we have criticised the way this text of the law has been submitted, I think it is a much better solution for this problem to be solved in the way it was later proposed. Finally, I would like to say that the adoption of this law will contribute, in a concrete way, to the achievement of the equality of all our citizens, to the construction of a fair and human society, and that will certainly contribute to the development of the rule of law and the rule of law. As for the Law on Public Notes, unlike the previous law, I cannot praise and support the postponement of the application, but I will say that I have the understanding to postpone the application, although a number of incorrect facts have been made today regarding the preparation and steps taken by the previous Ministry of Justice to apply the Law on Public Notes. As one of the basic reasons why it is proposed to postpone application, it is stated that not all sublegal and legal acts have been adopted, or that they have been adopted, but with delay. For the sake of truth and for the sake of the public of Serbia, I want to point out the fact that all sublegal acts have been adopted. It is the Public Note Test Regulation, the Regulation on the provisional number of public notaries and the official seats of public notebooks and public notebooks for which a competition will be opened for the first 100 public notebooks, and then, the Rules on the Public Note Office and the working time of the public register. The only sub-legislative act which has not been adopted has been prepared by the Public Note Tariff Regulation, which could not be adopted because a chamber of public notebooks which has to give an opinion regarding this Regulation has not been established. Therefore, it is not true that the law is delayed because sublegal legal acts have not been adopted, because they have been adopted. At the very least, that fact can also be checked in the official messenger. Although this bill consists of two members and we have seen that there will also be amendments to these two members to be accepted by the promoter, this is a moment to remind ourselves of the importance of the adoption of the Law on Public Notes. Although I had the honour and pleasure of defending this law in this respected home in May 2011, I would like to say that Serbia is the last country in the region to adopt this law. It's not an honor, but it's a fact. This law has been working for a long time. Our respected professors from various political and legal options worked, and I think that if there was a consensus on some legal text that was adopted in this assembly, then it certainly existed around this law. I don't mean by the parliamentary groups they were, but by the expert public. I also want to point out the fact that Serbia was still in 1930, while it was within the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, had a system of public records, but this one that is now envisaged, which I deeply hope will be applied since March 2013, cannot be considered as the existence of legal continuity. Public records as a judicial profession have its place in most European countries. In view of the need for legal certainty and certainty in the conduct of legal transactions, in certain cases it has proved to be comprehensive, in order to entrust transactions of public importance to a special service of public trust. Also, there is a fact that in our country the legal force of foreign public records is recognised and that is another reason for this profession to live in our system as well. We heard the benefits of the law today. We talked about it the moment the law was passed, there was talk about it before the law was passed. It is not true that there was no expert debate before the law was passed, there was an expert debate and all relevant acquaintances of this area participated in our country, but also in the region. At the very least, there are records about it, so whoever wants to see it will be able to see for himself. The way the elections are planned is by law, I expect a competition for people who claim to be public notebooks in Serbia and get them first 100 in the coming period. We are not in the previous term while we were in the Ministry of Justice appointed public notes. I felt it was wrong, as then minister of justice, for the government to do so in the technical mandate. Like I said, I hope it'll be by 2013. I deeply want to believe that the first public notebooks will not pass and will not have that fate as the unselected judges had to be members of the SNS, in the end, we will have opportunities here in parliament to see for ourselves and to continue to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1294	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1295	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm listening to some excuses, and there are some things that are not true. Well, then, indeed, the Ministry of Justice has adopted and I agree, after discussions, the former justice ministry of the former regime, the Law on Public Records. And then we hear today that that's not true, all the sublegal acts that the Justice Department was obliged to adopt under that law were adopted. I'm not slow, that's what I said in my first presentation. All I do is slow down my sleeves. I'll remind you a little bit. Article 176(1) The law on public records, he said -- within three months of the law's entry into force, the minister of justice will pass an act that is closer to regulating the way and programme of public notation exams. So by 17 August 2010, the Department of Justice had been obliged to adopt such a regulation. Now I'm going to remind you, and correct me if I'm wrong, that rule was passed on February 7, 2012. According to Article 176, paragraph 2. The Law on Public Records, the Ministry of Justice, that applies to the former minister of justice, was required to enter into force within six months of the day of the law, i.e. by 17 November 2010, it shall publish a call for a public record examination. Correct me if I'm wrong, that call was issued on April 3, 2012. According to Article 177. The Law on Public Registration, within the deadline of 17 August 2010, was the minister of justice's duty to determine the provisional project of public notebooks. And there was a year late. You had some other sublegal acts in Article 178, paragraph 2, paragraph 178, paragraph 5, and on average any sublegal act that the former Ministry of Justice had to pass in order to implement the Public Registration Act was one year late. A year. That's what the basic problem is, and that's what I said at the beginning of this exposure, it's been a year and a year and a year. I don't think it can be just such an excuse – the working groups were late. You need to take care of yourself. The minister of justice is obliged to take care of how working groups work. That's exactly why we have to postpone this for six months. As for who's a member of which the parties of the judges elected first, I will stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say we must discuss only the point of the agenda under discussion. I could talk a lot about judges who are members of the DS, and they're elected to judicial office and they're still on trial, but I'll talk about it when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1296	Mrs. Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1297	Dear Chairman, we have heard many times today an explanation of what has been said and what has not been said. Fortunately, there are transcripts in this respected home, so you can see exactly what was said. I listened very carefully to the presentations, and I'm sure I'm right. Like I said, it's possible to check. It was said that not all sublegal acts were brought, so we finally made sure that all sublegal acts were brought. What's worse than what might have been wrong is the fact that someone knew they were brought in sublegal acts, but that purposely twisted that fact. I'm open to talking about everything. I want to believe that what's said in the last sentence, that some other elected judges are still on trial, does not pose a threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1298	You have received the resignations of MPs Vido Petrovic and Bratislav Gacic as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity on the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that by submitting the resignations, the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament has occurred, so it proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office to these MPs. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88, point 1 of Article 1 and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to the MPs Vido Petrovic and Bratislava Gasic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. The next word is National MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm going to talk about the completion of the law on extraparious procedure. This addition to the Law is adopted in the interest of Serbian citizens, and above all in the interest of adults of Serbia who do not have the i.e. They don't have IDs, they don't have birth certificates, because they're not registered at birth, they can't have I.D., they can't have medical records, they can't have passports, they can't have any I.D. >The lack of these documents makes it impossible for these 8m people to exercise their fundamental human rights and freedoms. Today, there are at least 6500 people in Serbia, and the number is probably much higher, which do not have personal documents. That's what they're called. Legally invisible faces. Among those persons, there is certainly a large number of poor Roma, probably the largest number, but certainly without personal documents we have Serbs, Hungarians, Romanians as well as all other members of the national minorities in Serbia. They're mostly poor faces. Today, the Law on Parent Books does not allow for a way of enrolling certain adults who do not have the necessary documents. The so-called legal invisible faces cannot achieve their basic human rights and freedoms. We signatories of the draft Act supplementing the Non-Parking Procedure Act believe that it is necessary to implement the supplementation of the Non-Parking Procedure Act in order to lay down a special procedure for the adoption of birth fact-finding documents, which would be the basis for enrolment in the birth certificate. Our SNS parliamentary group will support the proposal to supplement the law on extra-paror procedure because the law is good and the law is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1300	Thank you. The next word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1301	Thank you, Madam Chairman. What I would really like to say right away is that we will support these bill proposals because they go completely on the line of what the previous government did and which brings one better quality in this area that is regulated in this case. Of course, we are obliged as representatives of citizens to explain, on the one hand, what really happened here, to refer to the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the motivation of the proposings themselves and what they were motivated to do, and what is essential to their functioning these days. First of all, it is truly commendable that the ruling majority is proposing our amendments and amendments to the law, and we are grateful to you for that. We welcome this step, a step that is good for the benefit of the citizens, and in other words we said from this pay phone, we from the DS, that the attempt and announcement, I quote Mr. Vukic - we will turn away from your path, confirm that there is almost no theoretical chance of you going off our path, and that is very good. I hope so, and I expect it will be tomorrow in the Assembly, which certainly brings us joy, that we will have the opportunity to finally speak to the ministers. I think it's completely inappropriate and very bad for our legal and political system that Justice Minister Selakovic didn't show up here and suggest these changes himself. Why? Because they were in this narrowly professional, even minor technical senses were appropriate to be proposed by the Ministry of Justice. We would support them equally, as we will support them now, but you have introduced here a very interesting institute, sometimes when it suits you you make a convex system out of this assembly, and we have not yet seen when it will happen – a full execution system. I've had a great look at all this. I wouldn't say it was plagiarism. I wouldn't say it was cheating. In any case, it is the Resavska School and that is what makes you beautiful in your work so far, including praiseworthy and supportive, efforts related to the Agrobank that you are now conducting, which, as you know, the prosecution and the government have prepared in the previous session, and it is good that you continue where we left off. The only problem you're facing, which you know is true regardless of these inappropriate reactions from Mr. White Source, is that most of the coalition skeletons are coming out of that closet and I'm really waiting to see these big fish, but you seem to have a very large net, so we don't see any of these announced big fish except your coalition partners. Very interesting. What's even more important to tell the citizens is that we had the chance of a minister of justice, Mr Selakovic yesterday on your party television or the day before yesterday, where he gave signs of his future action. You know that we will always support everything in favour of the citizens and that the mistakes made in the previous period must be corrected. But what's discriminatory, I think, is what I have to point out as a representative of the citizens, what I've been told by the citizens is that a man who runs such an important and serious resource, with huge problems that we all need to help with, would still be better if he first turned here in the Assembly, not through your party media. That's where we come to this story, I'm sorry Mr. Cvian left, that there's been a miselection of a number of judges and by the quotes of your party officials, hundreds of them have entered the SNS, and we're accusing ourselves of partition. If so, I condemn it, and you will heal our division by returning several hundred judges of your members, as he said, to work linearly. It's not all my problem, it's me that's the problem with that linear. And everything will be paid, as he said, for the backlog, for the wages, for the contributions, for everything, and there's judges who were stripping themselves naked in front of the police, who were dealing with crime... (President: Please return to the topic. ) This is a topic that explains the motivation of the promoter and the lack of the presence of the minister of justice, in our opinion responsible for proposing these amendments and additions and is absolutely within the subject. Therefore, gentlemen, if you're going to do this, and we're going to say it tomorrow to Minister Selakovic, and I am correcting myself, I ask you to make sure that a linear approach cannot return well to you, to us, or to any citizen of this country who is thirsty for justice. Unfortunately, what's symptomatic of this regime is that when there aren't any concrete results, I'm sorry that many people who criticize me for coming to you say that I haven't given you enough time, probably that there's a truth in that argument, but I have to say that in these months, two days we haven't really seen any qualitative steps except in a really massive announcement of fighting corruption and organised crime. So that's where I'm really building the fence because I support it. But the same is the fact that we have congregations, that we have naked demagogy, empty stories, etc., when there are no solutions that are popular. What is certain is that Mr. Shajin said that this proposal to amend and supplement the law helps citizens who, he said, burned their parent books on KIM. I have to say it because it was somewhat in the domain of what I was doing. No parent books were burned at KIM, but our home offices withdrew in June 1999 and left five original books on KIM and all copies of the parent books were left on KIM. So, in order to be clear and precise about what this is about, and the parent offices, as you know, have been moved to central Serbia where they function day and day. So, I know there's a regime's intention that we're to blame for that, but, gentlemen, the facts always effectively deny you. What is certain is that we believe that in the atmosphere when the minister of justice, according to us, should come here and answer a series of questions about what is going on with the announced reform of justice and what is happening in Kursumlia these days, what is he directly responsible for and to explain to us by what law can this be done today in Kursumlia? But, of course, none of them showed up and it seems to me like it's one bad practice that, hopefully, will be corrected tomorrow, but tomorrow it won't be just tomorrow and never again. We have so many questions for your new government and our new government of the state of Serbia that it will be a little 20 days to bring together how much of this has already been done very badly. Of course, all with a full argument, without any naked claims. You've never heard that from me. What is certain is that we, gentlemen, are discussing today in the atmosphere when committees are being kidnapped in Serbia, when political banditism is being made... (President: I ask Mr Stefanovic to return to the topic...) ) I must explain the motives of the applicant hiding behind a group of MPs instead of going to the public, as is the order. You as one who presides this assembly should defend our dignity, all of us here. What is certain is that there will be a lot of problems, if the first thing the parliamentary majority in this assembly again is passing a law that is significant, which is commendable, are amendments and additions to the Law on Notaries and to the extraparnical procedure, which are our laws, but it seems to me that there have been much, much more important things that this government should deliver to the Assembly. It's been avoided again. Dear citizens, that is when there is no plan, when there is no idea, when touched in the dark, when a cheap demagogy is sold, when large and other fish are announced, and no sign of it. That's how it ends with us moving deadlines that are otherwise relevant to the application of the Law on Public Libraries, and not talking about us as MPs really expecting you to meet five percent of what you promised, not you, but those you chose as a government who would not be worthy of coming here. That's what you owe the citizens, not 2% of the educators and health workers. You promised a lot more. For that, ask your coalition partner, Mr Dinkic, and don't throw me out of place. So, dear citizens of Serbia, this is a sad picture of the current government and what we are meeting here under the shadow of citizens' suspicion why does parliament not work? The whole August Parliament doesn't work because they disbanded us and then they call us for laws like this. And where are your public procurement? Where's your rebalancing? Where's your detachment? It doesn't exist. That's sad. Of course we'll support this and of course we can discuss now who was where and who wrote what. These are good changes and we'll back them up. Legally invisible people have to get their rights and points. We've seen that, Mr. Shayin. You know that well. Don't tell us about our coalition partners. I already told you that you used to be. Thus, one dose of sensitivity does not hurt anyone. I don't blame you directly, I blame the ones you chose. So it's not correct that some important system things are constantly transferred to one amorphous mass of SNS, very heterogeneous. We expect, i.e. Citizens expect far, far more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1302	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for breach of the Rules of Procedure and report as an authorised promoter. As regards the Rules of Procedure, Articles 106 and 107. So, Article 106, in the sense that MPs are obliged to stick to the subject they are talking about, and Article 107, in the sense that MPs are obliged to maintain the dignity of this home. That's how much when we talk about seriousness, because as far as I can tell, a colleague Stefanovic talked about everything except what the subject is today. Let me answer one question directly. When we heard today about the pay phone that SNS, God forbid, of course, is going through SNS. Let me tell you, Mr Stefanovic, we will not go through DS, because when it comes to the judiciary we will not destroy the network of courts in Serbia, we will not do it, and that is the law passed by the former regime, that the largest cities in Serbia do not have courts, such as Gornji Milanovac, Šid, such as Petrovac at Mlavi, Lebanese, such as many cities in Vojvodina. We will not choose judges and prosecutors on the party key, our minister of justice will not go out and comment on the trials and whether someone is guilty or not. We're not doing these things. I'm talking about justice, because that's what we're talking about today. So there's no way we're going down that road and we're going to continue on some road that you've plotted on one side. On the other hand, as far as these two concrete laws are concerned, we're not going through the former regime either. First, the former regime had 10 years to pass these two laws, namely to pass a law on legally invisible persons on the one hand, or on the other, to resolve the issue of notaries. We saw nothing happen. Maybe it was good intentions, I won't say. In early 2012, a law was released, but the law was not adopted, on the one hand. On the other hand, when it comes to notaries, we also see that, thanks to the inactivity of the former ministry, the notaries have not been introduced into the legal system. One word, when we're talking about seriousness, I heard a good comment today, and I was hoping it was true, which is that we all finally figured out who the government is here, and who the opposition is here, but I can see that some of us still haven't realized that they're the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1304	Thank you. Mr. Đuric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1305	This is taking too long. Members - 106 and 107. Please bring some order into the course of this session. This unfeeling debate of the old and new regime, as they call each other, has been going on for almost four hours. You have to stop that at some point. Mr. Cvian has now spoken alone past the agenda point by mentioning judicial reform. I don't mind being very serious about it, but don't let us contaminate this debate with such nonsense. I just spoke to the press. They're all surprised that there's a debate about who copied who, who made the law without anyone talking about how to solve these people's problems in particular. In order not to go into breach of the Rules of Procedure and some kind of demagogy, I ask you to act as someone who runs this session of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1306	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. I agree with you. I'm trying to respect the Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking all MPs to make sure we all work together here at the National Assembly. Thank you. After I set the break, it's 1400 hours, so I'll see you at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1307	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Next reported is Mr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1308	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia. I simply cannot believe that the former minister of justice in the former government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, who is sitting here today as a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has not earlier prepared a law on public records until May 2011, and that its application begins on 1 September 2012. It means that former Minister Snezana Malovic, in the former government of the former regime, was to first name 100 public notebooks, second, to educate a public-book chamber that was to bring sublaws. She probably didn't have time because she was busy, first of all, unremembered scandals in the staffing and exorcising of judges, or maybe she was busy setting up judges who, according to some of them, had never worked in the judiciary and had no results. Or perhaps by creating a network of courts that was made quickly, overnight, by political decisions and not based on the rational needs of the Serbian state. Either she was busy removing courts in border settlements, or maybe she was busy setting up courts in places with minority communities, or maybe she was busy taking justice away from Serbian citizens, because for the smallest thing our citizens have to travel all day long. Why, gentlemen of the former regime, are we forced to correct what you didn't do and should have done? Let me just say two facts about the motion to amend this law. Republika Srpska passed the Law on Notaries in 2004. The Federation of BiH in 2002 and 2010. The Republic of Croatia 1993, changes 1994 and more, seems to me in 2010. The Republic of Macedonia in 1996. Even the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was in 1930, etc. So it is not true what individual MPs today say that Serbia does not have the tradition of notary service. Excuse me, and Serbia has a very, very long tradition, not to say 400 to 500 years, which our students know very well, who have studied medieval Serbian state. Gentlemen of the former regime, you've left the judiciary in such gossip that there's no dedicated lawyer who doesn't see his tragedy as a tragedy of his profession. The high council of the judiciary has been completely downgraded with a resolute ministry which has become a lever of the executive authority. I'm sorry that Mr. Micunovic is not here right now, that I should address him and say what he said here today. To accuse us of our parliamentary group of why Mr. Micunovic is guilty and the former regime, there is no point, especially in economic terms. I will quote only one sentence that the fiscal council has already addressed the untrue claims made by the Republic of Serbia at the end of May 2012 a legitimate request to the state and citizens, hence the former regime, Mirko Cvetkovic and citizens, to curb excessive public spending, in order to avoid the public debt crisis and financial collapse. Where were the members of the Fiscal Council when the professional public was long known to Serbian citizens that the Serbian government headed by Mirko Cvetkovic was pushing Serbia's state into a debt crisis? Gentlemen, we should have talked about this in the previous part. But let's put that aside. Let's go back to these laws. As regards the draft law on amendments to the Law on extravagant proceedings, of course we will all support it, as well as the amendment of the law on amendments and amendments to the Charter. The law will particularly support the extraparnical procedure of over 500 refugees and displaced ones. Perhaps we have no idea what tragedy these people experience and their children who do not have their identity, especially one part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia originating in Croatia, BiH, and it is not true, Mr Stefanovic, one part with KIM. But let's put that aside. You said in the previous part that you didn't have time, because there was pre-election activity. That's right. Let me talk about that part. Never in Serbia's history, from King Stoimimir, has any ruler come harder to power and been elected as Tomislav Nikolic. That's what I'm telling you right now. I'm sorry Mr. Micunović isn't here and the kind of satanization that you've done to him and Alexander Vukic and SNS never, here, I'm a historian, there are historians here, history hasn't recorded. So much for that, gentlemen of the former regime. Allow me, however, to say in the end. This is how Serbian citizens saw the election of a new government, the choice of the Serbian government. Serbia began to stand up as a state, to rise from a pious knee, the one where Tadic's government brought him. Let me just mention it. Why didn't the former government and the former president, when the Republic of Croatia recognised KIM, not answer? I'm done with this. Why hasn't he called, if it's a interference in our country's territorial integrity, that possibly Serbia will try, the former Republika Srpska Krajina. Never, never, gentlemen, would it occur to the Croats to confess to KIM. Of course he didn't care about that. Of course he doesn't care, but he kept his mouth shut, etc. I end up, Mr. President, with the support that the SNS MPs will vote to amend these two draft laws and I am pleased to see the opposition gentlemen, especially you from the DS, where your basic mistakes are, and I call you to co-operation, all together. To correct what's been destroyed for 10 years, and you see here a fellow historian, what's being destroyed in a year, takes 50 years to re-establish. Today you were attacked by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If this government succeeds, and I hope it will, to stop the collapse that has been done for the last 10 years, it should be given the Nobel Prize. We can open up the cards for work. I hope so. She'll probably, I'm not a government spokesman here, but she'll take what she came for, and we all need to save the country and the nation together. She was brought to ruin. I can see that some of them are looking at me astoundingly. Yes, gentlemen. We can open a debate on this matter with concrete data in action, but since this is not a topic, I would like to thank Mr. President, with the praise of the SNS for putting these two laws on the agenda. It is a shame that the state of Serbia did not establish notaries in 2012, and all neighbouring republics established this long ago, and we have a Middle Ages tradition. We don't have to rely on Germany. We have Croatia from the Middle Ages, we have Serbia from the Middle Ages Notary Service. I see some people are looking at me strangely. So we did, but we didn't do it. In the end, do not object to Serbia's European path. The difference between us and you is that we are truly going and changing the laws for the sake of the interests of the Serbian citizens... I'm just asking you, Mr. Atlagic, to stick to the subject, please. I'm finishing up, because Mr. President, we were attacked in the previous part. So, unlike you, we will implement this in part for the sake of the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. Let me finally say that you still took away our present, you took away our children's future, but if you had stayed for another year, you would have also taken away the Serbian heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1309	Mr. Veselinović, as a replica, right? Like the next speaker? Mr. Djuric, on what grounds are you answering? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1310	I called before you reacted, but it took you nine and a half minutes. I'm really asking you to bring this debate into some normal and reasonable streams. Mr. Atlagic has been plowing with DS representatives who are not in the O.R. for 10 minutes. At the same time, he praises himself as a legislator. You're still letting him attack your coalition partners in the new government. Tomorrow the government comes to this Parliament, you have informed us that in fact all the members of the government will be there, and then Mr Atlagic will be able to ask the government why she maintains relations with the Republic of Croatia today in the way it does. This idea that we've been listening to the Middle Ages, to how the SNS suffered and attacked, is really unnecessary, and in particular there's no need to listen to MPs who are not DS, members of the DS with whom you've leprosy are not in the O.R., Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1311	Replica, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1312	Mr. President, what MP Đuric has a tirad, which he criticised in the opening part, Mr. Đurić, don't act like that, you may have been out of the hall, that we are pursuing political banditism, that kind of thing you won't hear from SNS MPs. We could talk about who was conducting political banditism in pre-election activity, but please, Mr. President, never say that sentence in this room, and that was from Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Djuric, you kept your mouth shut, or you were out of the O.R. It's true that there are no opposition gentlemen from the O.R., they probably don't intend to even come here, they're not interested in this, and they weren't interested in public notebooks either. Isn't it a shame that the state of Serbia doesn't have, why isn't there now, I'm not a government spokesman, and Mr. Minister deals with what the predecessors have been destroying for the past 10 years and in the end instead of saying, thank you Minister, let's give everyone together to correct the situation, because that's what citizens expect us to do, because you imagine 25,000 have no identified persons, their children can't go to school, they don't have social security, and it's easy for us to sit here. As many refugees and displaced ones have not solved their problems, they are now looking at us, who has defended the establishment of 42,000 Serbian apartments in Croatia. Is that how politics was conducted? Mrs. Malović, she went to Zagreb, which she did not set up for JUGOBANK from Split for 10 years, and did we do it or the Government, which you support, Mr. Đurić? Therefore, do not stop us for what you did in the previous regime. It is our interest that these laws pass, and I hope yours, along with the good things you've done, if you've done, and my basic objection is why you haven't done it in four or five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1313	Replica, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1314	That's exactly what I'm talking about, you're wrong when you say the opposition isn't in the O.R. right now and when you bring the opposition down to the DS. There are other serious opposition parties here who have been trying to have a serious debate about this this morning since 10:00. Let me tell you that you are inconclusive, because this morning I asked why the minister, or the government did not propose this law, and you are now saying, thank you to the minister who suggested it, excuse me, but Mr Cvian is not a minister in the government, that is Mr Selakovic. The second question, why did Mrs. Malovic not do something in Croatia, so ask Mr. Mrkic and he will see Mrs. Husic in a few weeks, and let them solve these problems. I'm just trying to tell you that when you attack the regime over the past few years, you're attacking your coalition partners and it has nothing to do with the fate of refugees right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1315	Mr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1316	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Djuric not to defend us and not count how many of us are in the O.R. We have really enough arguments and ways to defend ourselves. Chairman, I believe that it was uncomfortable for you to listen to the previous presentation, because there was first and foremost no law on amendments to the Law on non-partisan procedure, nor did there be any other law on public notebooks, or public notaries. So in the ninth minute, you warned your party colleague. Of course, I won't owe him anything he respected about the Democratic Party. First, when it comes to the Democratic Party's relationship with the Serbian Progressive Party towards Serbs in Croatia. Mr Nikolic, president of the Republic of Serbia, called for his inauguration as representatives of Serbs from Croatia, Veljak Jakul, only Veljak Jakulu, the man who was at the "Storm" celebration in Knin 20 days ago. So much for the Serbian Progressive Party's relationship to the protection of the rights of Serbs from Croatia. Mr. Vukic and the current government have abolished the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region. Mr Atlagic also voted for the decision. I think that's how he can treat his constituents. (President: In order not to come into the situation to warn you, after a while, to stick to the subject, just so we're in progress, I warned Mr. Atlagic, I might agree with my own dictionary who, to say, is enriched in the historical part, because man is a doctor of science, so it's simply that, for years, he's been working in such a way, I ask you to deal with this sitting point of the agenda. I've allowed it here, you say, but I'm asking you to continue in the course of the debate, we're holding the agenda and we're talking about two laws that are now in front of us. Thank you. Thank you, too. And I'm a doctor of science and you warn me in nine minutes, there's no problem. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, the fact that the Serbian Progressive Party is taking care of Kosovo and Metohija shows a statement by President Nikolic and his party counterparts, that they will participate in meetings attended by representatives of the so-called state of Kosovo and Metohija. (President: I have to tell you for the sake of the public that this is not an accurate interpretation of what the President of the Republic said, so what he said in the official notes, but once again, please, means we are dealing with these two points, so I'm not at all contentious, you have the right, you deal with all parties, it doesn't pollute at all. Please return to the agenda, and you can make your discussion of the agenda any way you want. So I don't mind. ) Mr. Chairman, I'm just using my right, instead of the right to reply, to use the time of the parliamentary group. I can't look back on a previous discussion that lasted nine minutes and please don't take this time away from me, which is what you said. I can't help but look back at the discussion that referred to my parliamentary group, the government that we've done, I can't help but answer, and you can't take it away from me. (President: I absolutely don't want to take away your right. You know that according to the Rules of Procedure, the answer based on, let me say, the mention of the parliamentary group may be given by the head of the parliamentary group and by the deputy head of the parliamentary group, and you, as someone who is directly mentioned, if you are directly mentioned, or by someone whose debate has been misunderstood, are entitled to the Rules of Procedure in the context of the replica to settle. You all know it well. So I'm not telling you anything new. Of course, if I were to count on you this time, you'd have plenty of time to talk, but please don't go into those discussions right now, because it's going to open up a series of other replicas, let's go back. I think you've reached your point, let's go back to two points of the agenda that are now ahead of us, I think that's something in your interest. Thank you. ) Chairman, I really respect your tolerance and would not have reported to the Rules of Procedure, nor would it have affected Mr Atlagic's discussion if I hadn't had a discussion right after him. But I can't help but answer some things, it's going to take a very short time. Mr. Atlagic also, very often, mentioned eight, nine times today, before that on the speaker the former regime, the former regime. The former regime, so it may have a bit of an offensive character, in the way he and his colleagues brought it up and we discussed it, but I remind him that this government is being made by the parties, and we have discussed it, which were in the previous regime, as he called it, that is, most of the government, or the prime minister, comes from that regime, so we need to keep an eye on or the latest events between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party, say it is not all that great. When it comes to the proposal of these two laws, it is indeed unusual for the laws of this form, such forms, laws that fall within the area of one ministry to be uncontested by the parliamentary majority, namely to be proposed by one parliamentary group and by the SNS. No one can tell me, and I can't be persuaded by a representative of the Serbian Progressive Party that they have, as they have, realized that the deadline prescribed for the application of the Law on Public Libraries will be insufficient for the implementation of the law, so that they have concluded that it would be good to change that deadline, or the idea of amending the Law on Off-pard Procedure came from the ranks of Serbian Progressive Party MPs. No, and I'll prove to you why it's not. It is not because this law with certain corrections has been written by the previous government, they say -- the previous regime, or Minister Malovic, on the proposal of the Citizens' Protector. It's the law, if by that principle, DS and its coalition papers. This law is nothing more than this, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but plagiarism, I will say it very explicitly. So it's a law that the previous government has passed, and here it presented it as its SNS, wasting neither the time to make it, nor the reasoning given in that law on amendments and the addition of the law. It is similar with this notary law, with former Minister Malovic saying and removing the dilemma, whether the sublegal acts had been passed. Sublegal acts have been passed. Gentlemen, after all, if you were preparing for power, why didn't you prepare those sublegal acts that were missing? We saw they weren't missing. You could, if you were preparing for power, put this law in the process and not question our lag behind other countries in the region, as the SNS MP said. Finally, I am not finishing the discussion with this, the SNS gentlemen in various party forms were in power until 2000, when laws were passed in the region from this area, he says, in the Republic of Croatia, which he calls on, Macedonia, etc. The laws in BiH in this area have been passed somewhat later. What do your ministers do instead of writing the laws in their area? Your ministers and deputy Prime Ministers are going through Serbia, or conducting from Belgrade, how and how local self-government, or local self-government, will be formed, or how they will bring down legitimately elected representatives of local authorities, specifically these days in Novi Sad, by using all legal and legal means, even threats. To avoid confusion, it's not the DS that has to stay in power at all costs. However, I will use the Vice President's statement, or V.D. right now. SNS President, Mr. Vukic, who on 28 May, when he spoke about forming a republican government and the possibility of the government being formed past the SNS, said – The government without SNS is illegal. These are headlines from RTS and other media. So, the government without the SNS that won at the republic's level, won the most votes, would be illegal, and the government in Novi Sad, where the DS won, in Sombor and other local self-governments in Vojvodina, and besides Vojvodina, would be legitimate without DS. Some of this will have to explain to voters who did not vote on it. Let me remind you that in Novi Sad of the seven province MPs, six were elected from the DS list and thus the Novosadians expressed their will in the second round, when all citizens decided whether they were for Democrats or for advances and decided for Democrats. Ministers, instead of writing laws, are sort of implementing party policy, dealing with all the things they didn't promise the citizens. Finally, I will conclude, DS, given that the law amending the law on extraparation, a law that goes in the direction of resolving certain issues, and Roma issues that do not have personal documents, and also issues of refugees and displaced persons who do not have personal documents, and also of all those persons who for various reasons do not have documents, in order to speed up the procedure, and the law written by the previous Government, we, I think I speak on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, will vote for the law. We will support this law that was presented here and that Mr. Cvian explained, the truth, mentioning the former regime several times, forgetting perhaps that he may have sat in that regime more than some who sit in these benches, on Andric's Venice, surely he knows and is not pleasant when we listen to such words from him, we do not feel comfortable and it does not contribute to a discussion that should be constructive. We will support this law, we will also support the law amending the Law on Public Libraries, moving the deadline, no matter who is guilty, whether the previous Government or this government or someone third. The Democratic Party will vote for these two laws, as we said at the beginning of the assembly, that we will vote for every law that is pro-European and that helps ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1317	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, here you go. (Nedjo Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) I'm sorry, I've already given my word to Mr. Cvian. It's okay, I'll give you my word, but you have to say earlier that it's under the Rules of Procedure, because I don't know on what basis a man calls and when Mr. Cvian calls as a representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the first chance to wish on behalf of all of us a good day to Mr. Janko Veseinović, our esteemed colleague from DS, because he obviously came to this session five minutes ago, as soon as he started to talk about things we've already discussed, we've already clarified and already explained a lot. If you had sat down, I had the impression that you hadn't sat down before noon, you'd hear that when we talk about laws, it can't be plagiarized, because the law isn't an author's work, you'd hear my presentation on the subject of the fact that this law that the SNS proposed is still significantly better than the law that former Minister Snezana Malovic proposed in January 2012, you'd hear my presentation where I listed the dates, when all of Snezana Malovic and her ministry, the former Ministry of Justice of the former regime, I'll repeat, should adopt certain sublaws for the Notary Act, so it's late for every sublaw act for at least a year. You would have heard it all, but you were not here, on the one hand, or, on the other hand, you came with a pre-prepared speech – let's read it, it doesn't matter what the story was. I won't repeat myself, take the transcript, the citizens who watched this transmission had the opportunity to hear that all sublegal acts regarding the Notary Act were passed, but on average with a year of delay, that some law was proposed by the Ministry of Justice of the former, but that law was not passed, unlike the SNS Act that would be passed. Finally, since you personally mentioned me to the apropo former regime, I must remind you of a few small details. First detail, I left the former regime when it was strongest, I left the former regime in 2010, when it was the strongest, the most arrogant, the most stolen and the most abuse was, and I know a lot about it. Of course, I don't want to talk about it today, so we'll talk about it if there's any need, the day it's the topic of the agenda. For these reasons I can say freely – the former regime, because I did it at a time when you were strongest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1319	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I ask the MPs to consult the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP who asks to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure has the right to the championship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1320	Thank you, Chairman. Given that the SPS has been mentioned in a not-so-politically correct way, as well as the president of the SPS, as prime minister, I must point out that from the very beginning, from the constitution of this Parliament, this assembly, it has shown a maximum level of tolerance to all calls and calls, I can say so, given that there is a certain regret that the SPS is no longer in coalition with the current partner and that it is understandable and understandable and that it is also the status of all those who call the SPS in this way. However, it is not correct to talk about relations within the ruling coalition, at least not in the way it is now highlighted, so that before the results of the work and whether something great is in the relations between the two partners that make up the coalition system, the ruling coalition system, will be shown through the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, whether it's great or not, it's not the place to comment here. Those who comment on it should make sure it's wonderful where they are, and for the SPS, it's not disputed that its coalition capacity expresses and proves in this composition that it is now in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1321	National MP, you are required to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured so that you and I can respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot answer you like this. Thank you. I have no obligation when you break the Rules of Procedure and you get the word, so it's fine. National MP Dragan Todorovic. National MP Janko Veselinović. National MP Zoran Babic, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then MP Janko Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1322	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really sorry because, as a rule, Mr. Veseinovic's exposure is kind of a distraction for me to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. At first, I'll say I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure of Article 106, where the speaker can talk about the item of the agenda under review. I would like you and Mr. President of Parliament to introduce Mr. Veselinovic to article 150. The Rules of Procedure, the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where it says - Laws and other general acts have the right to propose: every MP, Government, Parliament of the AP or at least 30,000 voters. The fact that these bills were proposed and signed by a group of SNS MPs is there a violation of the law? It's not. The Constitution? It's not. Why is it so painful that the government or we who are representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I liked the tones that were heard from your MP group just before, where you would support these bill proposals. That's good, and I don't know why it hurts. The opposition is a natural aggregate state, the government also, it's variable and it's life. Why is someone just destined to be in power in Serbia and someone destined to be in opposition? Serbian citizens voted for change. Why does that hurt? Because local self-government and SNS officials are trying to respect the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expressed at the May 6th polls. Serbian citizens wanted to change. Serbian citizens wanted SNS in power and you have to accept it. Take lessons from all of this and move forward like Rudy Giuliani, the famous mayor of New York, said, "You can't live in the past, look into the future, live in the future. "The Serbian Progressive Party is facing the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1323	As a member of 106 you are absolutely right, so I ask all of us who want someone else to respect the Rules of Procedure, to do so ourselves. National MP Janko Veselinović, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1324	I, the President-in-Office, advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to direct address, and since I have listened carefully to the previous speakers, I cannot tell you exactly what member it is now, but a member of the Committee relating to direct address. So Mr. Cvian spoke to me personally and the chairman did not warn him. Mr. Cvian was insulting and insulting. So, he wished me a good day, and today I listened carefully to the debate that took place in this House, and I know what the proposing representative, who I usually respect, and I didn't treat him with mistreatment, maybe he should have been the minister of justice. However, he spoke directly, insulted what is apparently a pattern of behaviour of individual SNS representatives. So in no part did I insult any member of the SNS, I spoke, or I answered the discussions of the SNS MPs that referred to issues that were not on the agenda today. In that sense, there is no point in this proposal regarding me breaking the Rules of Procedure. I just answered the questions that were raised here during the debate using the MP's group's time, so in my own way, I interpreted the subject that was being discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1325	Thank you. A provision of the Rules of Procedure on the prohibition of direct address, as it is understood abusively and aggressively. I can only ask that we all respect her. National MPs Dragan Todorovic, Bojan Djuric and Neđo Jovanovic were reported in the electronic system. National MP Marko Atlagic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1326	I thank the chairman. I refer to Article 103 because I was directly mentioned and some false things have been made. I have no intention, I really have no intention of leading the controversy here but let me say that the previous MP who mentioned me had had the opportunity for four years here in parliament to ask the question of the refugees and displaced persons, 42,000 apartments, the conqualification of the employment, etc. So this law, which is on the agenda, solves the partial identification of the displaced, etc. A very nice Mr. Predator tells it, but I urge you now to give us your suggestions to correct this for not having brought in the previous four years, and in the interest of the evasive and displaced persons who are waiting for this as a cold sun, to come this law so that their children are identified. So let's let it go, I agree to let it go. But, gentlemen, you mentioned Mr. Vukic directly earlier, but I thought the previous MP would call for change because in the fight against corruption, you are silent. Let's get this support, this government now headed by Dacic. It started out very well for me. There's no reason not to criticize them when they're not there. I expected you to support the fight against corruption to this government. But you don't say anything, gentlemen. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1327	MP Bojan Đuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1328	I must return to the presentation of Mr. Veselinović who directly mentioned me in his first address, but before that I must warn you, try to stop this. All the time it takes is a violation of the Rules of Procedure that is constant, which lasts for hours. That's what all MPs do. It is the first time in this House that MPs respond to someone else's advertising of violations of the Rules of Procedure and prove that they did not harm the Rules of Procedure. That's not how parliament works. Answer Mr. Veselinović, you knock on the open door. Believe me, I had no ambition to defend you, nor will I do so in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1329	National MP Dragan Todorovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1330	I'm calling for a violation of article 107. A Rules of Procedure that says that a speaker at a session of the National Assembly must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, but is respect for the dignity of the National Assembly when you talk about something or a man who isn't present. When do you quote from someone's newspaper statements? A man who really isn't in this House anymore. I appeal in this first announcement that although I have the impression that there is a bit of a "demand" happening because we have at the chairmanship of a person who and how well he knows how to run Parliament's sessions, and how strongly he knows that he is running Parliament's sessions, but to be so hard on all those who are breaking the Rules of Procedure and who want to abuse the time and place of this Parliament to carry out some political flossules that have absolutely no touch points with what's on the agenda. So, I could now talk to you indefinitely about something that I do not like in the work of the previous regime, or the previous government, as the headquarters of the previous DS government has been accusing in its work of everything that is negatively the previous government or its holder Slobodan Milosevic. That's not how we're going to get some improvement, that's not how we're going to get to the quality of life in Serbia, that's how we really deal with the past. I appeal that we are now really going back to improving the situation in the field of justice, which is also the essence of the draft law amending the Law on Public Records, because you will agree that there are many problems in this area, and especially after that reform, the famous reform of the judiciary that has brought the situation in this area into a very unpredictable position and that in further discussions, we should address exactly the solution to these problems. I'm sorry to mention it, but when it comes to the situation in this area, there are those of us who remember and that a set of laws in the area of justice prescribed some in 2002 or 2001 reform of the judicial system that was meant to be decorated in order to establish appeals and cassation courts but that didn't happen for five years, and here it's about a problem in five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1331	Thank you. As long as a decent and reasoned way is mentioned by those who are not MPs, it is simply part of the debate. You can't treat this as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can if it's done in an inappropriately rude and offensive way. But if we reduce our powers just to mention each other's names, it's not exactly for a congregation debate. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the circumstances just before my performance, the president changed, so I'm going to take a little bit of a risk. First of all, I want to talk about the subject and, of course, not the way they said it before, but I also have to comment on something since it was about us. In light of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records, the former justice minister here has literally stated that she has an understanding for the postponement of the application of the Law on Public Records. I think she decided to forgive us all our mistakes. The former justice minister violated the members of the Law on Public Libraries Article 176, 177, 178, 180, and partly the 181st member, thereby questioning Article 182, which the group proposed to postpone for the next six months, bearing in mind all the mistakes made by the Ministry of Justice as it was managed by the former justice minister who had indeed decided to forgive us all his mistakes. At a time when it was meant to solve the issue of public notebooks that we should have had a hundred, we should have already had a chamber of public notebooks, the chamber should have chosen its organs and had to have a tariff system or tariff rule. Since we don't have it, I don't think she's dealt with it primarily by determining the courts of her party that she hasn't interfered with her work and that today they're honoring us for what they're responsible for. As far as the law on extraparation proceedings is concerned, I must say that here, first of all, we are discussing the poor woman, who is in her previous 20s, I will not say for the past four years, thoroughly corrupted, so a few tens of thousands have lost the right to prove her birth, or to be enrolled in a birth certificate. It's mostly a poor population. The gentleman before me spoke of the refugee population that the Croats had cleaned up, and among them there are many people who cannot prove their identity or their date of birth. Although we did, the traditional well-meaning state expelled them and accused us of ethnic cleansing. So, we who have received 400,000 refugees from Croatia are accused of ethnic cleansing, I will never understand. As I can't understand, people don't have the right to be listed in a birth certificate. Sam Roma, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, I must say that this law solves the issue and the poor in the country, especially those who were far from the Matrimonials, and today there are such today. There are those that are far from electricity and water, and of course from the mothermakers, so that the poverty most expressed in the country where people die in distress often from the words, those who produce hundreds of thousands of pounds of food. They live in total misery and sometimes have no right to enroll a newborn in a birth certificate. The unlisted person has no right to a wedding, no one has talked about it, no right to a personal map that I believe, given the degree of poverty in Serbia, should be free of charge, with photographers being returned to photograph those who draw out their ID card. That would require a photographer's association to hire thousands of people and it's not right that that part of their job has been taken away. I also think that this way is alienated and the right to personal documents that should be free of charge for a wider population especially for this one that will be entered in a book born this way. A person who isn't listed in the birth certificate can't even be written in the book of the dead. Such a person who is not enrolled in a book of birth has no right to either die or have no right to be recorded in the books of this country in books born and books born and even existed. In the end, I ask you what happens if someone kills a person who isn't listed in a birth certificate and technically isn't led to exist? What happens in those cases if that face isn't listed? Most of the objections to this bill, I believe it will be done to the amendments, since our proposing representative has already announced that, therefore, the most remarks were made by those who missed the issue to resolve it. Someone here said it's too easy to enroll. Of course, if it's hard, it won't be proof. These are people who can only use two witnesses to prove that they were born, can prove the date of birth, etc. It is said here that it is not complicated and that it is too easy to make law enforcement difficult, that is, to enable proper abuse. It is literally said that someone will pack up an Afghan, which is exactly Afghan, can be Pakistani, so it will be packed and translated across the border and that this law will be misused for that purpose. The abuse of that law, of course, requires criminal prosecution, and if someone pays someone to falsely testify, they can answer for it. If someone has the money to pay off witnesses, I ask you what's stopping them from buying our IDs. It's far easier than proving the time of birth, citizenship, etc. It's the easiest in the municipalities mentioned to buy IDs. So that observation doesn't stand either. As for Article 71, it seems to me to me that persons who prove their birth and who later enter the birth certificate, that unless they know which date they were born, will be enrolled in the new year 1.1, about when they were born. I don't think this has been applied to birth certificates so far, but it is in the voter's list. Let me remind you that you were doing it so that you put hundreds of thousands of people on the voter's list and then eliminated them, as I recall. There's a colleague here who's been tracking it, and the proposer's representative certainly knows it. You couldn't put them in the birth certificate, but that's why you could put them on the ballot list. What I'm saying is that the former government, and especially the party that was the bearer of that government, did not fight poverty, but against the poor, and this law that we want to regulate one of the issues of the poor, is proof of that. In the end, I have to say that we're resented here that some in this coalition, and I don't belong to the SNS, I'm at the Parliament Club, I'm president of the People's Peasants' Party, that they've changed. That's what the head of your MP club said, even though he, in my memory and what I read in history, even though he has changed diametrically here, resented us for how someone has changed and how someone abuses or is on the European idea as if your party owned a European idea and a parliamentary democracy. If he could change himself, why shouldn't we? At the end of the risk of falling away from the subject, I disagree with that political banditism especially because that sentence does not apply to us alone. Mr. Borko Stefanovic said in a contaminant that the councils are buying, crossing over, forming some new authorities and that it is political banditism. I don't think he accused only us, but Mr Tadic, who isn't here. So he first said that the committees and MPs are the owners of the mandate and that they form the parliamentary and republican majority and that this is quite normal in a parliamentary democracy. I don't understand why now what Mr. Tadic said a month and a half ago, say, in Leskovac, why would it be the political magnetism that you would have prescribed for us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1333	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Bosko Ristic has other obligations, as well as MP Predrag Markovic, who is not in the O.R., so they will get the word if during the time foreseen for the debate they come to the session hall. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has a word, and after him, the Messenger of the people, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1334	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, of course, after the government's election and the adoption of the Law on the Election of Governors, there was a break in the National Assembly, and we heard the announcement that in late August we would have a debate on a number of laws that are within the area of the judiciary, which concern our compliance with EU rules. To be honest, we all expected that the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Code of Procedure would be found before us, because there were many objections to them and the inability to take effect in fact. I must admit that we were all surprised by the fact that today we are discussing a proposal to amend the Act of Off-pard Procedure and the Law on Public Records. Of course, the fact has been made that the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was formed a month ago, has not yet submitted a single bill to the National Assembly. That's a fact. Whoever looks at the National Assembly site will see that. Although, of course, in normal procedure, the government has withdrawn all laws from previous calls, we still do not have a single draft law of the current government in the National Assembly. Today, we are discussing proposals for amendments to the laws tabled by the SNS parliamentary group. In today's debate, we have pointed to a number of issues that need to be discussed or received answers regarding these two laws. Of course, the first question asked by our parliamentary group, and today it was during the debate that the legislator asked. It is indisputable that under the law of both the Constitution and the MPs and the parliamentary group, they have the right to propose laws and they are quite certainly authorised proposings. Our question, looking at these extremely serious two laws, extremely important laws that produce a series of important consequences, was there a better solution, we think it is better, that the government of the Republic of Serbia stood behind these draft laws? Until now, we have no opinion from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on these laws. We don't know what the government thinks about these laws, especially the amendments to the Public Records Act. All responsibility for the implementation of these laws will be in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The large responsibility taken over by the SNS parliamentary group is to propose a solution to simplify the application of the Public Registration Act in six months. What if the Government of the Republic says it's absolutely impossible, that it takes a much bigger deadline, that we can't set up a public record system in six months, that's been in place for years? In this regard, because of the responsibility it will assume on itself the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is important that it assumes the responsibility of proposing this law. Above all, because of the problems that have arisen during the application of the Law on Public Records, the problems observed, perhaps the best solution has been in this month since the formation of the Government, that the Ministry of Justice has seen these problems, and I believe that there has been a lot of information and problems in application and that today it has come out with amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records in general and with a proposal for a decision on the prolonging of application, because this law is above all not good. We've heard different stories here, that it's great, that maybe it's not good. What happens if the Government of the Republic of Serbia says the law is wrong? We have implemented a law that has its own norms, which produce legal consequences despite a series of institutions that participate in the formation of public records institutions and then Minister Selakovic comes out and says – we absolutely disagree with what was adopted here, this law is no good, we have to change it. It is a very serious law and very important consequences are being taken over because public records are taking over the authority of the state. It is a great responsibility for one MP to take on the proposal of a law giving authority to the state to natural persons. We have heard stories here that this law is urgently to be adopted, especially the law on out-of-parveillance procedures, because it should help Serbia comply with EU rules. That's what several heads of parliament suggested. In light of the law, it literally states that there is no regulation in the EU to bring this law into line. I also ask the legislator and ask him to give me an answer – is this a request from the European Commission or the European Commission's office here in Belgrade and, if so, simply to see how it is possible that there is a regulation to bring this law in line with. We've heard things here today that are very contradictory. It speaks of the insecureness of the state and the previous governments. When the first version of the law was proposed in the National Assembly in January 2012, it was said that 30,000 people were concerned. Proposer's representative said it's from 15 to 20 grand. The bill speaks of 6.5 thousand. We as a state don't know at all what number of persons it is, and we need to apply one very serious and important law. Why were we talking here about the outsider law issue? There was talk of how they could produce consequences and even abuses. We can't rule out the possibility of some law being misused. The point here is to make such a law that the possibility of abuse is minimal, and the essence of this law is who are authorized persons who are initiating the procedure and who are involved in the proceedings and how the proceedings are conducted. In that sense, my colleague Milica Radovic said about the amendment that we have submitted, which can prevent problems in implementing this law in terms of spreading evidence for this very important thing. I'd like to get an opinion or an answer from the motionary's representative. Within 15 days in the National Assembly, we had two draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on non-partisan procedure. One was filed on August 13th, so he was withdrawn, and the other was filed on August 21st. They're different. They differ in a very important matter. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. They differ from who is authorised to initiate the procedure. In the first draft of the law, these were, in addition to the authorities of custody and persons interested, the Authority of the Administration responsible for the management of the parent books and the person concerned with the protection of human rights. These two authorised persons to initiate the procedure are in fact excluded in the new draft law. It's very broadly given the right. I know it's a rubber norm, that it's a legal standard, a person who has a direct legal interest in it, but there can be great abuse right here. Who are those persons, besides a direct person, means the person to whom the law and custody authorities apply, who is who else can have a direct legal interest in launching this procedure, which in most cases, by looking at the norms of this law, will end up with a solution that adopts the proposal. Two witnesses, I believe there won't be any problem. Why was it important not to rush with this law and to arrange this matter well? It is not a matter of solving the problems of our citizens who currently exist in Serbia. This law is applied in the future as one general norm. Looking at what's happening at this point in Europe and everywhere, we don't know what can happen and what kind of situations can happen that will make it easier for someone to get into their home books, and then citizenship and electoral law also very important. One more thing I have to say, there's a lot going on here, this law has nothing to do with refugees. Anyone who has read this law sees that this law does not solve refugee problems. So that there is no confusion in the public, that's what's been quite a bit of an issue. There's a lot of problems, and there's a lot of questions that stayed open. We don't think there should have been any rush with one of these two laws and it would have been better because of the seriousness of the matter, to avoid the problems in application, that these laws were proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1335	Eight minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The floor has a representative of the motionor, MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a feeling I've been constantly answering the same questions since this morning, only different parliamentary groups are asking questions. So, since this morning, we've already discussed what number of our citizens we're talking about when we adopt a law on non-partisan procedure, which regulates so-called. Legally invisible faces. We've already drawn attention to the fact that we've put a 6,500 figure in the explanation, because we've respected the UNHCR results. To be precise, in fact even they are not accurate, official UNHCR findings. Well, there's 6,500 on one of them, and then there's 6,750 on the other. The former Justice Ministry, when it proposed a similar law, talked about 30,000. Here we are, I've personally used a couple of times an estimate of 15 to 20 grand. So we cannot know exactly how many legally invisible people there are in Serbia. We'll know when this law is implemented and we'll see how many people have come forward. We have also repeatedly explained here that if the law is of quality and when I see that we adopted it unanimously on committees today, it does not matter whether it is proposed by the ministry or by the SNS parliamentary group. We need to take care of the fact that the Department of Justice and the whole government are in a really big business right now. Let the unofficial information say, we'll have about 80 new laws in a regular session. So a lot of laws have to be passed, a lot of regulations have to be passed. This is a good law that, why not, of course, SNS MPs can write quality. I'll tell you directly why they have two draft laws. In fact, somewhere in the meantime, it was finally formed to the end of the Legislative Secretariat. The new director of the Legislative Secretariat, distinguished counterpart Dejan Djurdjevic, a science doctor, a professor at the university, had some suggestions about the law, analysing the opinion of the professional public, NGOs and international organisations, and considered it the director of the secretariat and we thank him, as well as showing co-operation between parliament and the government and the Legislative Secretariat that some amendments should be introduced. Finally, at no time did we say today that we, by adopting the Law on the Vanparnical Procedure, agree in any way with EU rules. We have explicitly said several times that in the last 10 years the former regime has had the opportunity to pass such a law on the basis of explicit criticisms from international organisations, and even in the opening presentation I said UNHCR, UNICEF, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Committee of the United Nations for Human Rights, the Committee of the United Nations against Discrimination, the OSCE, I have certainly forgotten someone, but at least 10 international very important, very relevant organisations have said in official letters to the former regime – people, solve the urgent problem of legally invisible persons. That's not settled. We're putting the law in the process now. Of course it will be and that it is a alignment, we can say freely not only with European standards. This law proposed by the SNS, I mean legally invisible persons and their enrollment in parent books, is in fact in accordance with civilization laws. For these reasons, he is in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1337	National MP Jovan Palalic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1338	In short, just to look back at the authorised proposer, of course, the question. I asked the question - did the government give an opinion on this bill? This is very important, especially the law on amendments to the Law on Public Registration. The law must be applied by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration. We do not have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia so far. What does the government think of this proposal? Did the government sit down and deliver an opinion? It's not a simple thing when you pass on serious responsibilities to someone about deadlines that he's not consulted on, or he's consulted on. It is very important to hear whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been consulted on the fact that six months is enough to implement the Law on Public Registration. I remind you once again, after the establishment of the entire public records institution, the significant rights that the state has will be transferred to natural persons. I fully understand the condition in which you found the judiciary and how important it is to form an institution of public records. We at this point, not counting the seats of the basic courts, in the largest number of cities and municipalities where the judicial units are, we have empty courtrooms, empty court offices and crowded offices where various documents are certified. And it is undeniable that the public records institution is important, because it will relieve the courts of this very job, a colleague, unfortunately because of the very bad, terrible reform of the judiciary they now have. But let us be aware that it is difficult to understand that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the executive body of government, should transfer a number of powers without being consulted on this issue, or if so, I would like to get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1339	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, followed by National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, there are only two members who extend the application of this law from 1 September 2012 to 1 March 2013. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to point out that the introduction of public records into Serbia's judicial system is necessary and that is why I would present to you a broad picture of notaries but also the reasons why Serbia is the last country in a region where neither the law is applied nor we have an institute of notaries, as well as the reasons why citizens of Serbia unfortunately still run through courts for the smallest legal work, waiting for rows, instead of, as they go to the selected doctor, being able to use the selected notary. These six months of differences between September 1st and March 1st next year we need to bring in the most qualitative way all the necessary sublaws, and that sublegal act that the former regime did not bring in, I guess, I guess they had some kind of shortcut to work instead of dealing with the needs of citizens. What I'm going to risk right now is breaking the Rules of Procedure and I hope you won't remind me and tell my dear colleague and friend, Mr Palalic, that the SNS is of course communicating with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The SNS parliamentary group is communicating with a top lawyer, current justice minister Mr. Nikola Selakovic. I don't know why he's been running around all day why this law has been proposed by a parliamentary group. Should we be ashamed of the initiative that comes from parliament? Should we be ashamed of the initiative that should come from every messenger of the people? Is it a little bit of an instruction that MPs come to the National Assembly just to go to the restaurant and distinguish two from four, buttons against and buttons for. I don't want to be part of that cliché. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to return one level to this National Assembly. That's why I'm asking you to accept our tactics. There'll be more moves like that. The initiative should come from both the National Assembly and from us as representatives of the citizens. I'm sorry Mr. Djuric isn't in the O.R. anymore. Some colleagues also asked for a guarantee that the notation would take place since 1 March 2013, which is also the need and desire of both the citizens of Serbia and the SNS and our partners in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, I would also like to ask Mr. Djuric and all the skeptics whether if all of this applies and if we do this whole sublegal thing in the next six months and apply it from March 1st, will this skepticism go away? Will it come out and say – we support you, we support this government that is ready to regulate both legal and all other systems in the Republic of Serbia? I'm not, and I'm planning on talking about the beginnings of the notaries, which are at the Institute of the Roman Tabilons, that the development of public records and notaries, as we know today, is started in the middle of the Middle Ages, about the Bologna Law School, about being in France, like, so on. The 1803 Ventoza law defines the notary as a trustee of the state, which gave him the state seal and part of public authority. Imagine, in France, an orderly country, and I would like to welcome that we live in such a Serbia, it has notaryism since 1803, governed by law. Serbia and in 2012, more than two centuries, unfortunately, has no law defining the area. As for the countries of the former Yugoslavia, a notary has been established in BiH by the adoption of three special laws that have been fully harmonised. The Notary Service first began work in the Federation, in mid-2007, in Brcko district a few months later, in early 2008 and in Republika Srpska. The Public Note Service in Croatia was renewed by the Law on Public Registration on July 29, 1993, and the third of the regulations adopted under that law. Slovenia and Macedonia have also introduced a notary service, only in Montenegro is the end of the implementation process and both laws and sublaws. I'm telling you all of this, not looking back a lot, but wanting to get the best out of the past for the future that's waiting for us and for which we want it to be as high-quality as possible. At the responsibility of the former regime, because the public notification has no application in Serbia we are late for Europe, we are late for the countries in the environment, and that is not the speed that SNS and partners in the government of the Republic of Serbia want Serbia to go that way towards the EU. The SNS advocates the introduction of public records into Serbia's legal system, both because of the Madrid Declaration that prescribes the basic principles of public records in Eropa and because public records should lead to a faster, more efficient and cheaper procedure, and thus to a more quality rise in the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Registration has been imposed on us. It was imposed by an intruding former regime that had the opportunity and I'm sorry, as a citizen of Serbia, I'm sorry that you failed to do so in the previous period. The Law on Public Registration was passed, I will remind you, on 9 May 2011, and since then, unfortunately, a dead letter has remained on paper. No sublegal acts. The public-book chamber is formed pro-form. Where's the statute? Where are the other acts of the chamber? The bodies of the public-book chamber don't exist, and it's been over, I'll remind you, for more than a year. In Serbia, the devastating fact but true, the public-book exam passed 41 notes, and if we know that one notary comes to 25,000 inhabitants, we see that the current number of notes is enough for less than half of Belgrade. What about the other half? What about the rest of Serbia? What I would like to say and what I would like to say – that all those who passed the public-recording exam, 41 citizens, should not worry and that everyone who passed this exam, according to the rules and the law, will start working, I hope and I am convinced, on 1 March 2013. The analysis of the Public Note Act shows that the Ministry's obligations were, and mentioning only some of the obligations: Article 15 to determine the number of public-recording places – not specified; Article 21 to prescribe the working time of public notebooks – has not been established; Article 135 to determine the public-book tariff – none of this has been done. What about the public-book rules and all the things he's targeting and treating? The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia will bring in all necessary sublaws over the next six months so that the law on public records can be applied from 1 March 2013. For SNS, the reasons for the adoption of this law are crystal clear, which will bring us closer to full membership in the EU, on the one hand, and on the other hand, not less important, which will relieve courts, lead us to a faster, more efficient and cheaper procedure for citizens. Once again, as I expect when I vote on these draft laws, I will say that I am glad that this support comes from the parties of the former regime, who understand mistakes, that they have missed out for a while, that the citizens realized that they did not have enough capacity, they sent their message in the May 6th and 20th elections and that this is an opportunity to make amends. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1341	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic, and he is the last registered speaker for today's debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1342	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've talked about a lot in the O.R. today, but we've talked a little bit about the laws that are ahead of us and how much trouble they're trying to solve the bill that's before us today. One of the problems, and I want to talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Extraparnical Procedure, one of the major problems in this country is apathy and these are actually legally invisible persons in the state, people who do not have documents, are not included in birth books and are simply persons who do not have the right to any civil and human rights, if other citizens of Serbia have such rights at all when we look at the situation they live in, fulfill – the right to work, the right to health care, the right to social protection, education, and ultimately the political rights to choose and to be elected. In fact, they are citizens and those who absolutely do not participate in the lives of this country and this society. Of course it is quite clear that the collapse of the state, poverty, migration, everything Serbia has been living in in the last decades of the 20th century has contributed significantly to the problem. But what's constantly going through today, and Mr. Cvian is trying to explain to us, and I think it's very important that we make that clear to the end is that the exact number of people who live without documents and the number of people who aren't listed in the parent books doesn't exist. The exact assessment doesn't exist because no one did. The UNHCR has worked backwards for years on this problem and with people who do not have documents, but in fact do not know the exact number of people who do not have documents and persons who are not listed in the parent books. I will use the data provided by Mr Sasa Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector, at a conference that was dedicated, here in the Assembly in early 2012, this particular problem and this report speak of 30,000 people who do not have documents and are talking about 6 thousand people who are not listed in the books, which further deepens this existing problem. It is clear that it is the people living on the margins of society, the poor, the people who have low education and cannot deal with this problem alone and that the thing is that the state has to deal with it. It is interesting, for example, that the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Human and Minority Rights missed the opportunity to use the list that was in the autumn of 2011, in order to find out the number of people who do not have documents and are not included in the parent books, but unfortunately nothing has been done on this issue. The ministry also had one project and gave about five million dinars to find out the exact number of people not included in the parent books, but the data was also not found out. On the other hand, this ministry was the proposing of the Law on Parent Books and one step was taken in that direction. In 2009, 9,573 people entered the law, and 9,876 requests were filed. So 303 requests are not accepted. In 2010, there were 9,072 requests and only 7,996 requests were accepted. So 1,176 requests have been denied and these are the persons that appear in this group of people that this law is likely to have to solve. The Ministry of Local Self-Government felt that there was indeed a problem in the regulations that already existed, that these regulations should be better applied and that it was only that, but it was this ministry that had been tasked with applying these regulations, to control how they were applied and to resolve the question that these people could lead to having documentation. Unfortunately, the ministry didn't recognize it. It is obvious that procedures and bureaucratic practices of the national authorities that are being overcomplicated are at stake. The bill before us went to a completely different extreme. He made it so simple, that these abuses and the possibility of abuse we're talking about are very real, and that's where we need to find a measure. With our amendment, we tried to make it right. It is clear that this is about marginalised social groups and that it is necessary to simplify the procedure. We think that in the proposal that you made as a parliamentary group on August 13th, you may have been better for shades than you were fixing on August 25th or 26th. I don't know what happened in those 13 days to make so many things change. The citizen's protector reacted in 2012, in fact, submitted the initiative and requested that both the Ministry of Justice and the Assembly do something about it. Unfortunately, none of that happened. One group of NGOs, which has dealt with this problem in the past, has made one proposal for this law, but it is true that this bill has never come to the agenda, because then the president of the Assembly said that the initiative came at a very bad time before the elections, so it was a clear message to the citizens, and I see that it is still being passed, that when the elections are then the state stops and everything that needs to be done in the country has nothing to do with it, it can't, the elections are. So it can't be that reason. It is obvious that this law was then left for a better time, when the state should guarantee the equality of all citizens in the exercise of human rights. Here's a few technical issues you're trying to answer. I see both MPs and an authorised representative. It is common that the promoter, of course there is another variant, in front of the National Assembly of Governments, because then the government stands before the bill of its laws. Of course, there's a possibility that the MP group might be a proposing, of course there's a possibility that you used to make one bill once, and then after 12 days, another bill. Of course, it's very clear that we don't actually have the government's opinion on these bill proposals, and that's something that leaves one clue. On the other hand, we who have been in parliament a little longer, whenever the motionary on behalf of the Government is someone else, behind the hills is something that leaves a question - what's wrong? And then this number that we're talking about, I'd like to stop thinking more about these 6,750, 20,000 and so on. I think we need to say one thing. This law will apply in the future. It won't stop by law enforcement when the 6,500 norm is met, or 700 and so forth. So that's what we have to take care of. The next question is, and I'm ending with you, have the countries in the environment, which also have this problem, solved this problem? How did they save him, and why are we running in front of the ore, as I would say, because it's obvious that we're running in front of the ore because someone's forcing us to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1343	Eight minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. The floor has a representative of the motionor, MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really agree that there might be better ways to address the problem of legally invisible persons, and it has been, as I said, 10 years of time to respect the recommendations and international organisations, and the professional public, and the Nautilus, and everyone who has dealt with this issue and nothing has been done about it. The most elegant way to actually solve this problem was, and it was well noticed in one of the discussions when the list was made. When the list was made, the censusors, which cost a lot of money, went from house to house and were able to take over all the information in such a way as to create one database of legally invisible persons. But it's obvious, and there's going to be an opportunity to talk about it here in the Assembly once, that the list had more to do with getting all kinds of dead and similar in order to vote, and that everything would happen in the polling stations, which we had a chance to see between the two electoral circles and see, of course, the situation that we have the minority more per voter list than we have the residents. But those opportunities have been missed. Many opportunities have been missed for this truly important area to be resolved and there was no other area now, and that is why, as SNS MPs, we have submitted a bill of law that solves this area. As for what I heard in the discussion so far, as it is said, it is common for the laws to be proposed by the government. Also, in the last 10 years, and especially in the last three years, we've been listening before the election, while the former regime was still in power, as the Assembly has been transformed into a single body where 250 people sit, raises their hands when they're told from a headquarters, for example. At Andric's wedding, and many analysts, many experts, many party people said it was extremely wrong. We want to stop with the usual and wrong practice that has been so far, which is that all laws are proposed by the government. Why would the government propose all the laws? It is important that we, as a parliamentary group and all of us working together well with the government, work closely together in the case of these laws with Minister Selakovic, listen to their opinions, listen to suggestions, coordinate our work, let's say with the Director, I mentioned earlier, the Secretariat for Law. This is much more important and in this way comes to quality laws and to a quality situation in the state, which is that the Assembly is what it really should be, not a mere voting machine. Finally, the government's opinion on these laws. Well, apropho that doesn't say in any regulations that we're obliged to have the government's opinion. So, I assure you, if anyone thinks I'm lying, they'll have Minister Selakovic here tomorrow. Tomorrow, here, at this very time, in 24 hours, Minister Selakovic will sit here and you will see firsthand that we have done all this in full, in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, that the SNS has passed the law in accordance with the agreement with the Government and the Secretariat of Law. When it comes to the law on notaries, that is, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration, the deadlines have pushed us. We must decide today on this law, if we are to prevent its application from being applied on September 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1345	National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, two minutes, clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1346	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm very glad we're thinking the same thing about the list, but I didn't answer for the list, because that's perfectly clear. I answered because you said exactly what I keep saying and all of us in the DSS. The minister was supposed to be here today, even if we could hear what he's thinking today. Tomorrow he'll answer some other questions. You won't be able to ask a question about it. So, as far as we're concerned, it would be very effective to have the minister here today, and to talk about it today. I believe your word, but it's not the way the Assembly works. It would be very good if each and every one of us could hear it. On the other hand, you haven't answered my question – what has changed so much in your understanding of solving the problem compared to what you gave on August 13th and on the basis of what you gave on August 26th? I am particularly interested in that part – who is it that should initiate the procedure before the court? Is it any citizen who's interested in it, or is it some authority, or is it a custody body? What changed so much in that part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1347	The word is proposed by a representative, a National MP, Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1348	Obviously, we agree on most things. As for the change in two draft laws, I repeat once again, we have had extensive consultations with experts. Apropo of these other versions that entered the procedure, we thought this version was better. I wouldn't go into details right now. Because we think that this version, which we have now submitted, is not much better, but better and better solves this matter than the first version. For one very simple reason, and that will be the day we discuss the amendments, because one of the amendments of the DSS parliamentary group is about the procedure. Indeed, it is unfortunate to balance it, on the one hand, and recommendations from all international organisations, including the Citizens' Protector, say it should be simplified. We're talking about poor people, we're talking about people who are poorer education. On the other hand, we have to have some balance, some control system. It must not go to any other extreme, because if we were to overcomplicate the registration procedure of legally invisible persons, then the law itself would lose its purpose. I repeat, because we are talking about poor and poorly educated people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1349	National MP Miroslav Petkovic, followed by MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1350	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the first speaker in his presentation this morning said we were talking about a law that only has two members. One member is not technically correct. At the same time, I was able to sign that we were going to discuss these two members all day. We have heard various things here today, different proposals, from historical data, to the need for Serbia to finally get a notary system. What was fascinating today, which is that in this area, in the afternoon, the representatives of the former government, who deformed the Serbian judiciary, who destroyed it and that will cause every citizen of this country to have a huge problem with the inexplicable consequences in the future. Countless times, DSS MPs, when laws were passed from a set of judicial laws, spoke and pointed to problems, and repeated after their adoption that reform did not mean changing the building and changing the name of the court. Today I expected to hear explanations, answers, which is why the Law on Public Records did not apply. We had a chance to listen here today – whether it's plagiarism, whether it's been prescribed by the former regime or not, I don't know which law. This is absolutely of no interest to us, as MPs, and I am certainly not even citizens of Serbia. Let's get one more thing straight about the proposal that came from one of the MPs' groups. No one slows down, one MP can propose a law. That's why we fought. I support Mr Babić, we are not buttons either, but let me just say, that is a reminder for both the president of the Assembly and the secretary, when the new government withdrew all the proposals of the law of the old government, the proposals of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the parliamentary groups and individual MPs who taught this and are no longer on the Assembly site. Believe me, we know well as DSS MPs, what it looks like when the legislative activity initiative comes from a single parliamentary group, because we can boast that we have referred the largest number of legislative proposals to the procedure. What interests us today, when we ask the question – where is the minister, none of us said the minister was afraid to come, but I don't see the possibility of tomorrow asking the minister about some of the things we care about today when we talk about this law. We didn't hear, we didn't see the government's opinion. You know how many powers and powers natural persons take over, which will have a huge job to do when this notary system comes into life. I'm interested in the minister telling me – is legal security increased in the meantime? Whether the public affairs provided for by this law are entrusted to a special service of public trust. Serbia was said to be the last in the region to pass the law. Nobody slows it down. Meanwhile, Serbia has become the last and at the rate of earning in the region. Now are the courts where there are working more efficiently? We heard today the announcement that the obvious Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors would be changed. What we pointed out when the law was adopted, when the courts were abolished, both in Gornji Milanovac and in a number of other cities in Serbia. Did the new minister educate the exam committee? Do the new minister meet the powers provided for by the current law? We pointed out that in the Kingdom of Serbia, the minister of justice had no such authority as Mrs Malovic took on herself, since the formation of the commission, since the appointment of 100 first notaries to deal with it. Then we asked, why is that number? Why isn't 34, how many basic courts are there? Why isn't it 150? We didn't get any arguments back then, except for the 25,000 inhabitants, and it's simple mathematics that can determine that it's not 100. Why are no criteria or criteria developed in the law? Fifty-three amendments were sent as a parliamentary group to a set of laws. Let me remind you of the emergency procedure. We discussed five laws, lawyers, security, enforcement and, among other things, this Law on Public Records. I need an ambulance. And in 15 months, nothing's been done. I understand that you want to fix that condition. None of us dispute that Serbia should have the law, but moving the law in six months is moving the application of bad law, because this law is not good. What we're proposing, and no one slows it down, and so can you, as an MP group, can we, too, suggest changes. That it's lucky that all the amendments were accepted, so that the law was passed. I just want to ask you a few more things, it's short notice. Is this law, whether it has proved based on it a good solution, that persons who have completed specialist studies have no advantage in the appointment of public notebooks. I am holding here a programme of specialist judges for the area of notary, a public notary of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which was adopted in 2008. Did a large number of people, including colleagues who spoke today, Mrs. Milica Radovic, attend specialist studies, complete specialist studies, here are lecturers, Sima Avramović, Olivera Antic, Mirko Vasiljevic, Marija Draskovic, Nebojsa Jovanovic, Dejan Djurdjevic, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber, who participated, who created this law. That is what we heard in the explanation, when Minister Malovic proposed this law, that he is in line with the needs of Serbia's EU and the World Trade Organisation. Prof. Hiber, author of this law, that he trained and trained these people to teach and interrogate students. Forty-one men passed a public record exam. What does that guarantee him? What's he gonna do? Here I have the confidence of one of them who attended and passed from Nis. A specialist in the field of public law, just to see him and to throw him away, is worth nothing to him. They won't have any advantage based on it. He can hang it on the wall and say, "Son, this is the upgraded knowledge that Mom acquired, because she attended this, which she paid 1,000 euros in tuition, which she paid 1,000 euros in the exam, and now we're waiting for the Justice Department to form a commission to take the exam and probably cost another 1,000 euros. But let's not talk, or I have information that it's going to cost 60,000. Those are questions for the minister. That minister can't answer us in the 332 tomorrow, how much time do we have to ask him, and he can answer us. That's why we suggested, so we simply pointed out today the need for the minister of justice when such important laws are adopted to be present in the O.R. Let's not talk about this money much, I guess we'll hear about it. I get the impression, or I'm just afraid this isn't just another one in a series of cheap demagogues we're discussing on a still expensive current during the day. I'm sure by March 1st we'll be discussing this law again, that it will have to come to a change and a supplement. I'm afraid by March 1st, we'll be moving in three or six months, as it happens, believe me, 10 years alone here and with laws, and about IDs, travel documents and a series of other laws when a good estimate of the time it takes to determine, that we've got the government's opinion, the minister says, all of which I can do in six months, and then we wait for March 1st and we say – ministers of all honour you did, or as Mrs Malovic did today, to experience a series of criticism, because she's completely incompetent and her ministry would have done these jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1351	National MP Predrag Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1352	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, this may be a good opportunity, since I see that a large number of MPs, MPs' groups or parts of parliamentary groups will vote for one or both laws. It may be a good time to remind ourselves that when we talk about the law and when we talk about politics, especially when we talk about laws, their deadlines, which they predict, often lightly, often because of some political profit of one who is currently proposing the law, and then it is established that it is not possible, or that it is possible, or that all deadlines are met, and then in the Assembly, when the parts of the law are changed, there will always be a discussion of who is guilty, and the Assembly is never, there will be. So it might be good not to say individually who it is when it prevents us from doing what we should do to each of us, if it is responsible, when we want in one area where it is standardised in most of the countries we want to compare ourselves with and in most of the countries we can compare with, what we really need to do, what is part of the assembly, and what is part of the executive government. I think today's discussions mentioned several times. Yes, in 2005 on 2006 we adopted a strategy, we envisioned the obligation of adoption, we are talking about the Law on notaries, or, as usual, we have spoken before, about notaries and we have organized, this is what Mr. Petkovic has now been alluded to, in agreement with experts to start and prepare interested people who would like to be involved in the future when the law is brought into the potential notary, or notary service. It was 2006, headed by Professor Hiber, and thank you very much for mentioning him, because he's put a lot of work into him and all those people in law school. Several courses and specialists were organized and those who served only to meet, but immediately to say, Mr. Petkovic, everyone who invested in it, it is their choice of free will. They invested without guarantees, as is usually done, invested in achieving another chance for themselves. The law was not passed when it was ready and it was in the 2006 assembly, because some parties did not want to go into the assembly to vote for it, some came in, so it prevented them from voting for it, but you will already argue about it when there are political upgrades, and I am only talking about costs here. The law was passed only in 2011 if I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Comic, I assume you're more accurate in 2011. Thank you. There's still a whole series of things to do to get a notary service. September was a deadline when she was supposed to start working. In September it is the day after tomorrow, and of course that the responsible people in the executive power are totally whatever you will call the previous, recent, former, realized that it is not possible to meet all deadlines I think there is even a proposal to change this member who is now proposed, who was also here in the Assembly, who has been withdrawn if I am wrong about it and there is no reason why if we are serious people to discuss who is when proposed, it is one or two members, which he withdrew. The important thing is that we lost six years. Who lost? Citizens because the establishment of this service we make one problem that exists in the judiciary, and there are all these years, is determined to dissipate the courts, to dissipate citizens primarily from all those lines, necessary links, trying to complete some extremely simple work in a legitimate way, and that they do not have to move around an entire institution and finally discharging lawyers. For six years, all these three categories have suffered damage. Today we are in a position to all agree on this and from all these discussions it is clear that probably everyone will vote yes, although people should not be trusted when they promise. I was in this room when they all came to me for five laws and told me – we'll vote for it, thank you for noding your head you were one of those people dear MPs, but of course they didn't make it to the vote. It's something else that matters. We are missing the opportunity now to speak to those MPs who have proposed these changes. One MP is enough to propose the law. When proposed by such a large group, it immediately has political significance and of course you will suffer charges from other political parties that you want to make a political profit. They're not accusations on my part, it's just advice from an older man, if you want principle, then play on that principle till the end. The principle is one MP, and he is sufficient to propose a law since it is a technical matter that makes it easier for everyone, then let one MP suggest it. Let me tell you right now, I only stand for those things that I'm willing to do myself. The law on archives and archives has been established with all parliamentary groups. He technically didn't make it to the agenda. He was withdrawn from the Assembly procedure if he was not returned by the government, since he has all the opinions, of course, that I would propose him as an MP within a week. Why? For the same reason that it doesn't happen to us that now the law that was here, not in this building, but in this home in the second building in 2006, the current minister of law is a young man, I don't think it's an advantage or a flaw, but at the time he was 22 years old, I guess he was a student. Today, we are creating a prerequisite for the implementation of a law that may have been implemented in spring by all professional and serious people, including all of them politically agreed in 2006, but did not arrive to agree, because they had a political impediment, and in the meantime, each of these political parties once went out to put their objections to the whole judiciary, and that a key area that engulfs the judiciary simply in this assembly was not easy to reach consensus. Sometimes it is difficult, precisely because the Assembly is the highest, because it is the only legislative one. Even in the morning, I've been listening to someone say that this is the most legislative body, like there are more legislative ones? But it's also political. The political arena, although you want to remove any political overtone within something that is really better, a improvement for everyone, even if you want to point out that if I understand correctly, someone has made such an insinuation that this contest, this test that has been passed by potential notebooks disputed by many things. I understand you well, Mr. Petkovic. Right? Just in preparation. I know for a fact that it's controversial in many things, I don't know if it's someone's will or what's often happening in Serbia, simply with general sloppyness and it's eliminated, if you want to show that you're principled one more reminding you there's a way to show it. One MP, however, who proposes such a kind of change of law and thus makes it clear that he does not want to mark a single space as a party, nor to take any kind of political profit, but simply that in the time that we have, and the Assembly now has it, we can bring a whole series of corrections to what was not done in the meantime for whatever reason or what we believe should be done differently, because it was seen that it was simply not well planned and that it was necessary, and very easy to change it, will then change the picture of the Assembly in the eyes of citizens. That's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1353	Eleven minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. I hereby inform you that on the lists of MPs there are no more entries for the word. Before concluding a principled search, I would like to ask whether the President, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96, wants to do so. A rule of law for a word in the debate in principle? If any of you will, please sign in. National MP Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1354	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to respond to a huge lie said by MP Janko Veseinovic. He said President Nikolic's inauguration was invited...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-29-0.u1355	People's MP, please, the course of the session is that the debate is in principle over. The Presidents of Parliament's groups, authorised representatives of parliamentary groups or independent MPs who did not exercise their right under Article 96 shall have the right to say so. So, in this part of the session, as a member of the parliamentary group, you can't get a word because you're not registered for a word on the list of MPs and the debate is over. Thank you. So does one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward or anyone who has not exercised his right? If not, pursuant to Article 98(4). I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a joint principled review on the draft Law amending the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on non-partisan procedure. This concludes the work for today, and we will continue the session tomorrow, August 30th, at 4:00 a.m. with a session asking questions from Members of the People's Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, according to Business, last Thursday of the month from 16.00 to 19.00 hours. Thank you.
