ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4621	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum in voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Ivan Bauer, Neven Cvetićanin, Meho Omerović, Mileta Poscurica, Jelana Mijatović, Zoran Bojanić, Biljana Pantic, Irena Aleksic, Milanka Karić and Slobodan Veličković. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amnesty Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all MPs on the draft law giving amnesty for criminal acts. I'm putting the amnesty bill to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 11, the abstentions – there are no, no four votes, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to Article 4 which together have been submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski and the 7th MP Zlata Djeric. I would like to remind you that during the review of the draft law in particular, the draft representative of the motions has adopted amendments to the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government on Articles 1, 2, 6 and 7, and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers these amendments to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that these amendments have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 131 of the total 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – five, abstentions – there is no, 143 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – three abstentions – no, 142 of the 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – five, abstentions – two, 143 of the 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – three abstentions – there is no, 143 of the 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 3 with a correction. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – three, abstention – one, 25 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – three abstentions – there is no, 143 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – four, abstentions – two, 150 of the 160 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 153 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the amnesty bill on vote, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 19, abstentions – there is no, 12 of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Amnesty Act. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Completings on the Protection of Personality Data I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's Proposal in principle, and since all amendments have been submitted to the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on the Protection of Personality Data. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – eight, out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personality in general. We move to the third item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF MIGRATION As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Migration Management, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, no vote - nine, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: together with Lasla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, who, after Article 3, adds the title and the new member of the 3a and together Donka Banović and Milice Vojić Markovic to the title above Articles 18 and 18. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 2nd amendment with the correction, MPs Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic submitted together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no, no – 154 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 147 of the 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 147 of the 158 MPs. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that the title and the new member be added above Article 3. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 144 out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 149 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Petar Petkovic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 5. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Shin submitted an amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that the title and a new member of the 5a be added after article 5. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not stated. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. I'm putting this amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 29 of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Petar Petkovic together submitted an amendment proposing that the title and new member be added after Article 5. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 152 out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment to Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – for nine of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 9th amendment together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 150 of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 150 of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted – 161 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – for nine, none of the messengers who are abstentions – 152 out of 161. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – for nine, none of the messengers who are abstentions – 152 out of 161. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 151 of the total 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 149 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 19 and 19. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none, with abstention – did not vote – 150 of the 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft migration management law to the vote, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – nine abstentions – there is no, no vote – 15 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on migration management. We move to a decision on the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Funds I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since MP Milica Vojić Marković, 23 October 2012, has, by written means, withdrawn the amendment to Article 1 which was the only amendment submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote of 25, of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 5, 6 and 8 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will vote only in general on these draft laws. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The fifth item of the agenda – PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK (AD SERBIA Railways: REHABILITATION OF THE PRUGA) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN NETWORK BANK I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (and the Railways of Serbia: Rehabilitation of the railways) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – nine, abstentions – there is no, there is no vote 17, of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT ASSESSMENT OF THE GOVERNMENTAL SYSTEMS IN SURVEILLANCE) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN NETWORK BANK I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Programme of Water Systems in Subotica) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, not 13 votes, out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The eighth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Saradication and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues I place a vote on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Affairs, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of 159 MPs, for – 135 against. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the tenth item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION TO THE STATUTION OF THE SERVANT ENERGETICS OF THE REPUBLIC After the National Assembly has carried out the search, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Statute of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, no 102 vote among the 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Statute of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to a decision on the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for A DEVOLKSBANK A.D. BELEGRAD, VojvodjanSKE BANK A.D. NOW, SOCIETE GENERALE BANK SRBIA A.D. BELKRAD, UNICREDIT BANK SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE, AMSTERDAM TRADK NETHERLANDS AND DEUTSCHE BANK AG LONDON A.D. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I also remind you that, according to Article 105(3) point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on this bill by a majority vote of all MPs. I remind you he's a member of 12. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In particular, the government has cited the reasons for the entry into force of this law earlier than the eighth day since the day of publication in the light of the draft law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 9, the abstentions, did not vote – 20 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. We're moving on to a decision on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, Volksbank a.d. Veograd, Vojvodjanske banka a.d. Novi Sad, Social Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Amsterdam Trade Bank Netherlands and Deutsche Bank AG London under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbias" Novi Sad, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 10, the abstentions, did not vote – 20 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, Volksbank a.d. Veograd, Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, Society Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d., Amsterdam Trade Banka Netherlands and Deutsche Banka AG London under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Jadranka Joksimovic, at a session on 30 October 2012, at 15.14 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one with abstentions voted – 150 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. The next session that's scheduled begins at 12.00 hours. (The session is closed at 11.45 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4622	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The fifth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 8 November 2012 (The session began at 12.15 hours. The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4623	I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since Thursday, and on Tuesdays and Thursdays after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, on the basis of Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to request information and explanations on work related to Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4624	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SVM Parliament Club, I would like to refer a question to the Ministry of Agriculture. On a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture on 30 August, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Regulation on the terms and conditions of use of the funds to regress diesel fuel for the autumn work in agriculture in 2012. For farmers, 40 litres of fuel per hectare of declared farmland is available, which is purchased at valid retail prices at NIS pumps, which are subsequently regressed. The action lasts from 15 September and will last until 15 November 2012. According to the Regulation, fuel can be purchased multiple times, but agricultural producers may only submit the regression and deduction of paid excise duty to the competent branch of the Treasury Administration by 22 November 2012 at the latest. A few months ago, there was a second system, a bona system, when agricultural producers took fuel through the bona fide. Now they have to pay off the entire amount of fuel, and then they'll get one piece of the funds back. Unfortunately, the deadline for buying fuel, November 15, is approaching. In the field, agricultural producers say they do not have enough resources to buy all planned fuel. We all know that the droughts of agriculture and agricultural producers cause huge damage. Despite all the difficulties, agricultural producers work hard and hard, but unfortunately, not all have the resources to buy fuel by 15 November. Some have submitted a request for subsidies per hectare and are waiting for funds, after which they want to buy fuel. That's why I'm asking – will the deadline for the purchase of diesel fuel be extended for a while and does the Ministry of Agriculture think about it? There is another problem, and that is a small number of NIS pumps and a large distance from the village. For example, in the municipality I come from, there are 23 settlements in Bačka Topoli but only four NIS pumps. Some agricultural producers had to travel 10, 15 kilometers to get fuel. We have information that since 15 November, only two NIS gas stations will remain on the territory of the Bačka Topol municipality. This fact can be a problem in the future. I think it's in the interest of all of us to get as many agricultural producers as possible subsidized fuel. Also, if we really want to help our farmers, agriculture, then the Ministry of Agriculture needs to find a way to solve this problem and extend the time limit for resuscitation and resuscitation. Finally, I appeal once again to the Ministry of Agriculture to check that there is a possibility for agricultural producers to extend the deadline for the purchase of diesel fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4625	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4626	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the diaspora. Namely, the diaspora ministry was founded, I will remind only in 2004, in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. There was also a second government of Vojislav Kostunica, as well as the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. In 2011, in the reconstruction of the government, the Faith Sector was complemented, and it was called the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. Our people are estimated to have about four million in the world, and about half of them live in the diaspora and half of them in the region. Annually, according to the World Bank, over $5 billion in Serbia, our people from the diaspora are being sent to the diaspora through a signal. We agree with the government's decision to abolish the Ministry and form the Diaspora Office, all in order to rationalise jobs, but we do not think it is good that the Office has not yet started work, which is losing continuity with all the good things that the Diaspora Ministry has done since 2004 until today. So my question is -- when is the Government of the Republic of Serbia planning to activate the work of the Diaspora Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4627	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4628	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to you. In fact, the National Assembly of the 30th of this year received a bill to supplement the Law on the Budgetary System, which was sent to this assembly by the Vojvodina Assembly, which used its constitutional right to propose law in the National Assembly for adoption. It is that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has taken a stand to amend and supplement the Law on the Budgetary System, which was adopted immediately before in this assembly, is not in favour of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and to harm the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. My question to you – have you started consultations with the heads of parliament, which would refer to whether this law will ever come to the Assembly's agenda? I am asking because I consider it extremely important that this bill, which was referred to by the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, be adopted before the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because the budget, as it was prepared and as it came into this assembly, as the basis for part of the money belonging to the AP Vojvodina benefiting from what was established by the old Budgetary System Act, which means that the AP Vojvodina budget, if adopted without amendment and addition of the Budgetary System Act, would amount to 57 billion and 319 thousand dinars. However, if the Serbian Parliament had previously considered and then adopted amendments and additions to the law sent by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, in that case, the AP Vojvodina budget would be 75.5 billion dinars. The difference is 18 billion dinars, or a third of the AP Vojvodina budget. In addition to amending the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, which was referred to by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Vojvodina budget would be higher by a third. You know that the government of Vojvodina has asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law and be prepared to, if the budget of the Republic of Serbia is adopted without amendments and addition to the Budgetary System Act, which requested the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the LSV parliamentary group will, on the same day after the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget, launch a request for the assessment of the constitutionality of the budget, given that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clears the AP of the Republic of Serbia's 7% of the budget, and not 7% of the tax revenues, as provided for by the law adopted by this National Assembly. In the previous period, you have shown that if you consider that a law is important, you do not hesitate to interrupt a session that is under way, you may hold talks with the heads of parliament, at least to discuss a law in the National Assembly. My question to you is, do you intend to do the same thing with the law of the assembly of the Duke? Is this your evaluation, whether it's important or not, depending on the legislator or on the content of the law itself? It is very important that these changes and additions, directed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, be adopted before the budget or, at least, at the same session when the budget is, that the basis for the calculation of the AP Vojvodina budget may be greater. In addition to failing to adopt these amendments as damage to the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, it would also be a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think you as president of this house should let that sort of thing happen here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4629	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4630	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not going to ask you my question and I am not going to ask you for a notice, but I am going to refer my question to the Government, given that I really have no illusion about it, Mr. President, that you are autonomously deciding in this House, which laws will arrive on the agenda which you will not. I think, however, in relation to parliament and executive power, the government is dominant. The question would have been, it's very similar as Mrs Jerkov asked earlier, and that's-- is it going to come to the agenda this bill supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted by the circuit assembly? I ask this question for this reason, because one practice that has been going on for 20 years indicates that the outcome cannot be expected to be positive. Since 1990, no republican parliament has discussed the law, a bill that would come from the province's Assembly. It's a very good indicator of how the Republic goes back over 20 years to the province. Otherwise, in Serbia, the situation is very lax, as it strengthens the central government and threatens the AP Vojvodina. It is being threatened in a financial sense, and it is being threatened in this sense, which is being humiliated by the prime minister and all other top people of the province of Vojvodina, because when an agreement is reached with some of the republican ministers, the agreement is being fully analysed after a while, so that not all of what is being taken seriously as an objection, i.e. as a recommendation, is proposed by the province institutions, the regional authorities, the province government, etc. It's really a serious violation of Vojvodina's autonomy. In addition, it is very clear to everyone that we have no decentralisation here, and if this topic was one topic for pre-election stories and with this topic are elections and won by some parties currently in the coalition in power. In addition, in Serbia today, it is very worrying that the electoral will of the citizens at the place is being annulled, all under cover of the government's premise, in order to actually paint the republican government at the local level. It is only a step to make tomorrow's administrative decisions on how and who will form power at the bar, and normally, all in the interest and all for the needs of whoever makes that administrative decision. In my opinion, there is also a real threat to the democratic principle of choice, and the right to elect Serbian citizens. When all this is considered, I would ask, among other things, the question -- what was the government doing when it decided not to participate in the financing of the Exit Festival? Was it a decisive fact and a decisive argument that the festival is held regularly every year in the capital of Vojvodina, Novi Sad?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4631	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4632	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is Mitrovica, the glory of many citizens of our country, and I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all those who celebrate Mitrovica, today congratulating Christian glory and to wish them the next glory in a better, better and more humane country, with fewer problems. As issues of violation of the Constitution began today, to remind me that on today, six years ago, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. It seems to me that the right time and opportunity to remind ourselves of that day and ask some questions that have just been related to the violation of the Constitution. He has been violated in previous years by top authorities, which unfortunately continues today by representatives of the government, especially in terms of the territorial integrity and integrity of the Serbian state. It's a serious and big issue, so I'm going to focus on one other violation of the Constitution regarding human rights and freedom. Namely, there is one chapter in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that defines human rights and Article 21 says that all are equal before the Constitution and the law and that any discrimination is prohibited either directly or indirectly on any basis, and especially based on race, gender, origin, social origin, status and the like. During the years of transition, many factories and collectives have failed, and their workers have lost their jobs, without being able to collect their profits from the companies they worked in. Some have resorted to a model of suing your own factories and earning their rights in court. The processes have run and there have been executive solutions. The state resorted to another model, driven by a likely desire to preserve the property of these collectives, has declared restructuring of these companies, thus blocking executive rulings. Many of the workers have addressed the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in order to exercise their rights, after which the Strasbourg Court ruled in their favour, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, on the basis of this ruling, adopted a regulation this April that gives the possibility for all those who have requested their rights to other profits and have executive solutions, to register with the Privatisation Agency. This puts a large number of workers in an unequal position who have not resorted to the action of their firms, so that they are not treated in any way by this regulation and will probably not be able to exercise their rights. The regulation said that all who wish to make their claims can address the Privatisation Agency and the deadline was September this year. In September, the government adopted a new regulation extending the deadline for application under the regulation by the end of the year. My particular question is to ask the government and the prime minister, Mr Dacic, as well as the finance and business minister, Mr Dinkic – how will workers who have not sued their businesses be treated, and how will the government bring them and those who have initiated court proceedings? My second question is – until when does the government plan to delay solving the problem through constant prolonging and moving the deadlines and making new regulations? The third question is – how and when does the government intend to pay off other profits and thus correct the injustice against tens of thousands of workers who today are unfortunately the biggest and most difficult social cases in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4633	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm asking you to put your card in the other machine, because this one's not working.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4634	In the past few days, I have received a series of remarks and citizen representations, and they all have the same problem. This is also my question which I refer to the Minister of Health, which is – is it true that the new Regulation, i.e. to the amendments to the Health Insurance Correction Regulation, has denied the right to treat members of the families of farmers and entrepreneurs who have not reconciled the contributions? This is a very important topic, because if it's really true, then there's been a rude discrimination against children, pregnant women, farmers and entrepreneurs. I note that it is the category of population that is most vulnerable and most sensitive, which is protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under Article 68(2). If this claim is indeed true, I insist that the Minister of Health directs the immediate interpretation or correction of this Regulation to all branches of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and that it requires that children, pregnant women and maternity care be treated, i.e. to be certified by health books. I also have to express my concern because if this is a way to solve the problems of lack of money in the health system, I think it will most affect the worst parts of our population, and that if that is really not a good way, it is the wrong way. I'm also looking for an explanation if it's really so urgent that the Minister of Health act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4635	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4636	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to request a notice from the finance and business minister, Mr Dinkic, regarding the Vienna Agreement on Sucession. As known, the Vienna Agreement on Succession was signed by representatives of the former Yugoslavia's co-excessor states in 2001. After ratification in our parliaments, it took effect in March 2004. In the past seven years, the successor states have been working to normalize the first four annexes of as many as seven. This is Annex A – mobile and immovable assets of the former Federation, Annex B – diplomatic and consular representations, Annex C – financial assets and liabilities and Annex D – issue of archive construction. Unfortunately, in the previous seven years, the successor state of the former Yugoslavia has not discussed one key annex, which is Annex 7, Annex G of the Vienna Agreement, and it is called Private Property and acquired Rights, and it says that all citizens and legal entities will be returned to their rights on the day of 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded under pressure and threats during the war will be annulled. This Annex G, Annex 7 of the Vienna Agreement directly concerns hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiled persons from the former Yugoslavia, but also concerns a large number of Serbian citizens who were not refugees and exiled persons, but have acquired property from 1945 to 1990, have had a working internship, a dinar foreign savings, etc. It's not just about dinar foreign exchange savings, it's about business premises, houses, apartments, back-up pensions, agricultural and other land, etc. A single body for its implementation was formed under the Vienna Agreement on Succession. It's a permanent mixed committee. The committee has held three meetings over the past seven years and is made up of one high representative appointed by the governments as successors of the former Yugoslavia. Our representative in the previous period was Mr. Gassa Knezevic, who resigned two months ago as High Representative in the Permanent Mixed Committee. At the last third meeting of the Standing Committee, held in September 2009, in Belgrade, the need for Annex G to come to the agenda was first discussed. There's been a difference of opinion about his implementation. The Serbian and Slovenian sides felt Annex G could be applied immediately, while the Croatian sides insisted that a bilateral agreement should be signed for its implementation between the successor states. The Slovenian and Serbian sides accepted this Croatian version and, therefore, the Serbian government sent a draft of a bilateral agreement to the official Zagreb for the implementation of Annex G. Since then, the official Zagreb has not responded to the draft. We asked the former prime minister and former Finance Minister, Mr Cvetkovic – did he ask for an explanation during 2010, during the first half of 2012, which is why the Croatian side refuses to declare the draft, is it good, is it bad, do they have their version, etc? Unfortunately, according to our information, Mr. Cvetkovic did not ask for that explanation, Mr. Gassa Knezevic did not ask for that explanation. We are now asking for two notifications from Mr Dinkic. First, when will Mr Dinkic initiate the appointment by the Serbian government of a new high representative in a permanent mixed committee for the implementation of the Vienna Sucession Agreement? I recall that on 26 September the Serbian Government appointed Mr Dinkic as a representative of the Committee for the Implementation of Financial Activities and Passives at Annex C. Secondly, will the Serbian Government, or Minister Dinkic, ask for an explanation from the official Zagreb, when will the response be related to the draft bilateral agreement on the implementation of the G Vienna Agreement on Succession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4637	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to ask a question? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Ivan Bauer, Neven Cvetićanin, Meho Omerović, Mileta Poscurica, Jelena Mijatović, Zoran Bojanić, Biljana Pantic, Irena Alexic, Milanka Karić and Slobodan Veličković. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of double taxation against property income taxes, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 136 out of 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Georgia on avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 134 out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of the National Assembly's public funds suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the election of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstention – voted 15 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic's budget and the control of the spending of the National Assembly's public funds proposed that the draft decision on the selection of the Director of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Institution, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Arsic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: a draft decision on the election of the National Bank of Serbia Board of Governors and a proposal for a decision to elect a director of the Supervisory Authority over financial institutions. Does MP Veroljub Arsic want a word? No, I don't. ) I remind you that the Parliamentary Group is the Unique Serbia, in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on 7 November 2012, submitted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was delivered to you. According to Article 45(2), The Rules of Procedure, on the termination of office and election of a new member or deputy board member, shall be decided by the National Assembly at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliament Group, which means that this proposal, by force of the Rules of Procedure, is included in the agenda of this sitting. We're going back to the vote on the merger debate. Please insert cards, i.e. to vote in favour of a proposal for merger, a unique review of the motion for a decision on the election of the National Bank of Serbia Board of Governors and a proposal for a decision to elect the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 out of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 out of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask the National Assembly to make and deliver the consolidated text of the agenda. 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions; 3. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group Serbian Progressive Party - one hour, 19 minutes and 19 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, three minutes and 13 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 31 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 26 minutes and two seconds; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group - 19 minutes and 50 seconds; the Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 17 minutes and 21 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - 14 minutes and 52 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 11 minutes and nine seconds; the Group of MPs of New Serbia - nine minutes and 55 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - eight minutes and 41 seconds; the delegation group of Serbia; the Democratic Party of Serbia's six minutes; and the six minutes of Serbia's Democratic Group of Serbia -- the six and the sixth group of Serbia -- the six minutes; the former members of Serbia -- the former members of Serbia's Democratic group of Serbia -- the six and the six minutes; the six minutes; the former members of Serbia's group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the election of the National Bank of Serbia Board of Governors and a proposal for a decision to elect the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. Does the proposing representative, or MP Veroljub Arsic, member of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4638	Dear President and fellow MPs, the proposal for a decision to elect the Board of Governors of the NBS is a very important assembly act and a very important decision. When we look at the biographies of the Board of Governors of the NBS, it is clear that there is nothing to object to when it comes to their past work. However, it should be seen what their plan and work programme is in the future. Somehow, when we look at how many powers the Council itself and the members of the Council has, we are asked whether it is a matter of non-seriousness if these people are public, both professional and general, do not tell what their plan for the future, for the recovery of the course of the dinar, for the adoption of a strategy in the management of foreign reserves, for the decision on membership in international financial organisations and institutions, for the financial plan of the NBS, for the selection of the NGO's organisation units for business and internal audits, how will the choice of external auditor be done, how will the external auditor's reports be discussed, how will the application of the recommendations of this auditor in the NBS and how will carry out work in the domain of very important economic issues, which are crucial for Serbia's economic recovery, for new jobs, for the implementation of families that are threatened? I'll tell you what we at the SPO and the Democratic Party of Serbia expect. We expect the NBS Board to perform its legal role in a completely impartial and professionally sound manner in times of its mandate, which fall within the most critical years of our monetary and financial stability. We are not quite 100% sure that this is possible, given that the NBS Act, adopted on August 4th, had to return to the assembly procedure despite all warnings from our parliamentary club that international financial organisations would react quickly, would strongly oppose the NBS independence attack. Then, to remind you, only one member of the Council, who, if the ruling majority so decides, will decide, will be re-elected, remained a member of the Council, and all of his colleagues resigned to their posts. However, by composition, when we look at the names and working biographies of Miladin Kovacevic or, for example, Professor Stojan Stamenkovic, there is no place for more serious doubt, but fiscal authority and reforms have not yet gained trust in either professional or general public. It seems to me that the tycoon rent of the economy continues to vehemently fight for the last financial foothold, which is the National Bank's foreign reserve, the mandatory reserve on the savings and capital of banks, believing that some development and filling of liquidity can rely on funds that do not serve such a purpose, but the purpose of preserving stability and external liquidity. It is also known that in the past there has been a single string of bankers and tycoon and is now in each other's embrace, not so much because of new credits for development and expansion of work, but because of the mutual maintenance of living heads under the sword of enormous debt and difficulty in serviceing them. It is now also part of the sovereignisation of private debt through public borrowing and state deficit financing, without the public seeing it clearly enough. From here we see that the old model of complementing public finances, infrastructure investment and consumption continues to reign, and that is, to metaphorically express itself – be in debt or sell, so spend it. The Board of Governors of the NBS must be the last to defend monetary credibility and stability. This is what the professional public says, and this is what the SPO and the Democratic Party of Serbia say. When we talk about the independence of this body made by key decisions in the NBS, we must also talk about warnings of a political aspect coming from abroad from international financial institutions. We have to do everything to make these people impartial, independent of political parties in their decision-making. I am therefore surprised that individual members of the Council have been elected for a period of one, two, three or four, and the president for five years. At the same time, in a united debate, as a proposal for a decision to elect the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions as a cowardly egg, the selection of directors of the Administration has been planted. In what way? In the sense that if, for a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, Dr Ivan Nikolic is elected for a period of one year, I ask the professional public, I ask the MPs in the Serbian Parliament - is it possible that one man can show or meet his plans that he would be able to implement when it comes to the NBS? At the same time the Director of the Supervisory Board is elected for five years. I don't know why someone should have a five-year term without the director's name. As far as I know, the president of the state has a five-year term in office, and the director should be at the head of this control institution as long as time shows he's doing his job well. Then I wonder, if this is an independent body, and some of its members are elected for a year, so, after a year, they can be replaced and others can be asked because the question of re-election is not mentioned as an obstacle. Then I ask the question why this institution will be impartial, that is, this body, the council, and by which the Director of the Supervisory Authority of financial institutions will be independent in its work. My parliamentary club and I do not personally question the quality and intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority when it comes to people who will form members of the council and who will create monetary policy in the future. At some and previous sessions, I said that everything that is good will come to the support of the SPI and DHSS parliamentary club, and that everything we see as bad for the interests of Serbian citizens, we will face criticism and we will be a sharp opposition. That's when I said that Miladin Kovacevic and Stojan Stamenkovic were candidates who I would probably have if our parliamentary club had asked. But the time ahead, given the problems of the election, the problems when adopting amendments and supplementing the NBS Act must show or show whether this election, which will be unequivocally final after the vote in this assembly, is going to be good for the interests of the Serbian citizens. Once again, I express my dissatisfaction with the election of members of this important body in a joint debate, debate, and then vote on the director of the Board of Supervisory over the financial institutions elected, to repeat, as president of Serbia for five years. His biography is not at all controversial, but I hope that we will separate politics and finance in the future. As for, once again, the Council of Governors of the NBS, support for individual members of the SP-DHSS Parliament Club. As for the election of the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions, it would be useful to get some clarifications, plans, ways of controlling financial institutions in the future. I don't want it to be party personnel, I'd prefer it to be independent people who will do their job by profession, by biography, according to all that our possibility of Serbia being a well-recovered country in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4639	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4640	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have an important decision in front of us to elect members of the Board of Governors of the NBS and directors of the Banking Sector Control Board, which is important because we are currently present at a rather riot in the banking sector. When we see a mess in the government and elsewhere, which in the banking sector would be better. Let's go in line, why do I think it's a mess? Agrobanka went bankrupt, then "New Agrobanka" went into bankruptcy after a few months, EU shareholders announce the lawsuit, these are all circumstances in which the council will take over its obligation, and since there are no members of the Council and we have no opportunity to find out what their concept is, then we can only for citizens to assess the situation in which they assume an important function in the state and possibly give them some advice when we can't hear their concept and plans about how they intend to put this mess in order. So, Agrobank is what it was, deposits were transferred to the Post Office Savings, and I hear there's also a recapitalization of the Post Office. On the other hand, it's rocking the Vojvodina Development Bank, and we see that the government wants to literally shut it down, by transferring the deposits to another bank. In Vojvodina, they oppose it and they want to capitalize on it. In recent days, government members have often made statements about the percentage of non-payments in Vojvodina Development Bank, which is certainly not a contribution to the stability of the financial system in the country, which is, in addition to inflation, the most important function of the NBS, including the gentlemen to be elected to the Board of Governors. So, on the one hand, we have really problems in the banking sector, PBB, the Serbian Bank, etc., and on the other hand, government members who should still be mindful of what they're saying, because they're kind of jeopardizing the already threatened bank. Let me remind you that in just a few months when it comes to Agrobank because of what was going on around Agrobank, I'm not saying that it shouldn't have happened, I'm just saying that it should have happened more and more earlier and deeper. Foreign deposits of 260 million as many as there were in Agrobanks fell to 150. So people react normally, like all of us are afraid for their savings. So these are some elements of a situation in which the Council should take over its role. But before we go on about the Council, let's say a few words about the candidate, the candidate for director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority. His name is Djordje Jeftic, I don't know him, unlike most candidates for members of the Council. It wasn't hard to ask a little about what this man was doing even though there was a biography. It says he's been employed by the NBS since March 2001, meaning 11 years. Prior to that, he worked at Invest Bank, perhaps the symbolic fact that yesterday or yesterday, the European Court of Human Rights ruled on claims by some BiH citizens that "Ljubljanska Banka" and "Investment Bank" or "Investment Bank" or translated Slovenia and Serbia must pay old foreign currency savings to BiH citizens who have been saving in these banks in the same way that savings are paid to citizens of Slovenia when it comes to "Ljubljanska Banka" and Serbian citizens when it comes to "Invest Bank". It is the branch "Invest Bank" in Tuzla, because some BiH citizens have sued for the foreign roles of Serbia and Slovenia over the "Ljubljanska Banka" in Sarajevo. The court ruled that the two states were also obliged to pay off the old foreign currency savings. Since the gentleman worked at Investbank, it may have been symbolic, however, he did not just work at Investbank, while this Mr. Jeftic was in the National Bank, at one point he was appointed to be a bankruptcy, or forced manager of Metals Bank. He was not alone, he was with some Petrovic, and that was the period from 23 August 2008 to 16 November 2009. During that time, according to the NIN, the Metals Bank issued a bank guarantee to Darko Saric for the purchase of newly-sad hotels Putnik and Vojvodina and one of the 18m euros worth of a Belgrade-based company. This happened at a time when Jeftic was one of the bankruptcy managers, or the forced managers of the Metals Bank, and there he was sent by the National Bank. The other one, Petrovic, was arrested later in 2010. Somehow, it seems to me that this part of the biography that doesn't exist in the official biography, and it exists in the media, had to be found in this biography. Somehow it doesn't seem to me that it's no coincidence that a man who's been at the Metals Bank is a forced manager whose management has happened to all sorts of things, that he hasn't been chosen by accident, that he's not proposed for such a responsible function, especially if we have in mind that the Ministry of Finance continues to announce the deployment of the Vojvodina Development Bank under control. What the official CV in his e-mail address says is behind the manki (@) NBS. Yu, I think it's a printing mistake I doubt that the email address can get some email back two or three years, because yu doesn't exist anymore. What was in Metals Bank is a serious thing, and you've proposed it, you'll vote it, so we'll see what happens, but someone who's done so as to be a forced manager in such a bank, and the commissions and assets and the Metals Bank Passes is in the Vojvodine Development Bank, not exactly the best recommendation for the five-year term of office of the Bank and Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority. Let's go to advice, really sound names are people, serious biographies, from Professor Nebojsa Savić, Stolet Stamenkovic, Mr Kovacevic, and these two I don't know very well, the fourth and fifth ones, there is one principled remark when it comes to their biography. They are economic experts, they have been dealing with analyses, but there is no way to say except for Professor Savic that they are experts in monetary policy. The main task and legal obligation of the NBS is to conduct monetary policy, not some others, not to analyse, price stability and financial system stability, and these are the two obligations of the NBS, the only one. That is why I worry that these days from the Government is often heard from business circles of requests for coordination of the government's measures, business, or policy of the NBS. No coordination can be there, everyone has to do their job, the NBS to keep price stability, or not to allow inflation that is absolutely the most important thing when it comes to attracting foreign investment and citizens' standards, and on the other hand, the government to run fiscal policy and move towards the gobber. We literally see that now, and we warned about that when we talked about NBS changes in early August, we see that the NBS is trying to put itself in a function and budget that is wrongly planted and in principle set up by wrong assumptions, so we say that it is not realistic and attack by some who have reinvested and committed themselves, and it speaks of those who are usually called tycoons in the people, attacking them on foreign exchange reserves. It seems to me that the gentlemen who will be elected to the Board of Governors of the NBS will indeed have a serious job to return the NBS to what the law says it must do, to safeguard the stability of the price and the financial system, and the government, even if it loses the elections, if it can't run an economic, first of all, fiscal policy, to attract foreign investment, the government's government's business. What can we say as a possible problem besides talking about the banking system, which will be faced by the gentleman who will be in the Board of Governors? We see the current manipulation of course and don't joke, this course isn't real. The consequences of such an unrealistic course are objectively stimulating imports and destimulating exports. What does that mean on the trade balance of the country, what does that mean on the balance of payments, in a situation where debts grow, I don't have to speak. I believe that the intention of such a course that has suddenly come with the election of a new governor is a way of reducing Serbia's duty. If the course were realistic, there would be 55% of Serbia's debt to GDP, but it would be 60% or 70%. In this way, it helps the finance minister to grant the next year's budget so that he can say that he has reduced the deficit, but I'm afraid that in the long term this course will not even open the way to exports, and only worsen the trade balance. This is a measure called – hold the water while the masters leave. On the other hand, the release of inflation, and it is clear that inflation has gone too far, far from all projections since the beginning of this year, has already gone to 12% in this quarter and will probably be 15% by the end of the year, and this is in some way additional taxation of the citizens of 15% and thus a false picture is being taken when it comes to this budget, because all citizens are taxed with an additional 15%. The third thing that the members of the Board of Governors have to think about, is a very strange thing that most looks like the borrowing of citizens, if you remember in the Swiss francs, and then, although they were returning the loans neatly, the debt was growing, and that issue, the government's debt to fill the budget gaps in dollars. It seems rather unusual to be in debt in dollars, when one, you have very little dollars in foreign exchange reserves, when two, you have big expenses in dollars, and that's oil, and now you have a debt in dollars, and you don't have income in dollars. You have the most income from exporting to the euro. I'm afraid someone has overlooked that the potential risk of dollar growth relative to the euro and exchange rate differences that will fall back on the burden of Serbian citizens and we think that the people who advise the governor must take account of this, because we cannot imagine that the finance minister does not understand why the interest is in dollars 2% and interest in Euros is 4 or 5%, because the dollar is expected to grow. And if the dollar grows because of this debt in dollars, you've been eating at us, there's an extra cost to the citizens. What can we possibly advise the governors, or the governors' council? I believe they're thinking about how to fix what's going on in the banking system right now and change something, because something has to change. We have a state in charge and basically, rich citizens. I'm kidding when I say rich citizens. I mean, foreign savings. It is estimated that the foreign exchange is around 8 billion euros. The state is constantly in debt with domestic banks at the cost of money, i.e. interest of 6-7%, and citizens of these banks get about 4-5 of those eight billion euros in foreign exchange savings. There's hardly gonna be any interest in this week's savings, if it's still going on. So, in some ways, through intermediaries, banks, citizens finance a wasteful and consumer state. It would be more logical if those two circles were combined, for citizens to directly credit the state. The State can, the National Bank can issue foreign bonds. Citizens, instead of keeping money in banks, can buy these foreign exchange bonds for, say, 5.5% interest. This will make the state cheaper than it is now, in debt in foreign exchanges through foreign exchange bonds from domestic banks. So the state would be winning. She'd pay interest percentages, up to a percent and a half, maybe two, smaller, and the citizens would get more interest than the one they get now in the banks. It's not hard to accomplish and it's not hard to come up with. I hope that in this direction, people who will take over the management of the National Bank, that is, policy making, because not to lie, we don't expect it from the governor, as dear as it is with their blue eyes, that they can respond to what the National Bank is waiting for in the future. So one of the possible solutions is that -- the actual foreign savings. That would give the citizens portfolios, they'd have securities of value. We wouldn't have to charge extra money to pump into apartments, houses, that run empty, and then banks finance the loans of those who invested money and wait to sell a square of three thousand euros. Everything would be different, and then domestic banks would have much more motives and liquid assets to possibly credit the economy, because it's often heard here that banks won't invest in the economy. The question is, do they have bills? After all, they certainly have no motive at this point, when they always have a secure job with the state. The state says a little bit – give the money, we spent more than we earned, the banks place by 6-7% and what they would risk with some kind of investment in some kind of company that objectively for everything could not repay those loans. This would pave the way for banks to finance higher levels than businesses and businesses so far, and citizens to finance the state and everyone to win. One of the possible ideas is to try foreign exchange bonds on the international market, so let's see what the interest will be. Probably no less than seven, but so factually and now we're paying as government bonds to domestic banks. In that case, domestic banks could also have more interest in financing the economy, because on the international market, they would sell the bonds to the European market, not domestic banks. The danger is, of course, that their headquarters are then bought, so that everything remains the same. So we think the idea of directly funding a wasteland by citizens is normal. What's the guarantee that citizens buy? Some collateral would have to be. Let's say Telecom, two billion states, if you'd be in debt from the citizens, could be guaranteed to give to Telecom. It's about as much as it's worth, so the citizens absolutely make sure that their crediting of the state has cover in real material values that need to be returned... (President: Time. I'm done. ... He pays back his debt and he can sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4641	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4642	The Honorable Chairman, Art. 96, 103 and 107. Taking into account the powers of the Board of Governors of NBS, and for the sake of the public, it decides on membership in the international financial organisation, confirms the dinar course regime, adopts the strategy of foreign reserve management, adopts the annual financial report, adopts the NBS financial plan, conducts the selection of NBS managers for internal audit tasks, conducts a selection of external auditors, discusses the reports of the external auditor, follows the application of...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4643	Excuse me, what does this have to do with the members of the Rules of Procedure you listed?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4644	We'll get to that. What's the matter? The dispute is that members of the Council, or candidates for members of the Council, are not present. So, the public, nor the MPs in this House, can know who they choose for mandates that are of paramount importance to the continued functioning of the state. According to article 87, you can tell me that you have the right to hold a session elsewhere. However, it says here that 24 hours before holding that session, you would have to inform the MPs. So that's not the excuse, if you want to use it, it doesn't stand. We simply cannot accept the fact that candidates who choose for such functions are not sure where, that the public and that the MPs of this Parliament have not met them, or the plan or programme of their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4645	Mr. Jugovic, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken in all of these members, which you have listed. In fact, candidates for members of the Council are not invited because the Rules of Procedure do not require the invitation of members. Chuck, I don't even know if the president invited them. I don't think he's and he doesn't have that obligation. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4646	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two points of the agenda are in a united debate. We elect members of the Board of Governors and Directors of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. After voting on these points, the constitution of full leadership and NBS officials and the National Bank will be completed and will be able to work with full capacity. In just over three months, three months and a few days, the first was in late July, or the Law was passed on August 5th, the National Bank Act was amended. The day after that, August 6th, the governor was elected. Shortly after that, the governor proposed three vice governors, so after the debate in the O.R., they were elected. A few days ago, the agenda was a new amendment to the law. On Monday, the debate is over. As the Law changed, the duration of the term of office was also changed, the point – The election of members of the Council had to be withdrawn from the debate. Today we have two points. In short, in just over three months, six times the National Assembly discusses topics related to the National Bank. This may mean that the relationship of the National Assembly to the National Bank has changed and that the National Assembly will be much more monitored by all those activities that the National Bank has. Today, some of the most important officials, five members of the Council, president and four members of the Council and director of the Supervisory Authority are elected. The disadvantages of the Rules of Procedure, I have drawn attention to this and earlier, the Rules of Procedure do not allow and leave no possibility for the most important officials to be managed by the NBS, not only by them but also by others, to participate in the debate. The truth is, all the candidates on the Finance Committee were invited, but the Finance Committee is not the National Assembly. The Finance Committee is just one congregation committee. We will come to a rather paradoxical situation, so that a large number of MPs could not identify some of the most important state officials. I think if we're all aware together, and if we agree that this is a lack in procedure, then it's clear that we need to launch the initiative. Consider me launching an initiative at the moment to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which would allow the most important officials elected by the National Assembly to be present at the session, and not only that, Mr Jugovic, to take part in the debate, and not just to see what they look like. As far as the DSS is concerned, the election of members of the Board and director of the Board is by no means a personal question. In this debate, I'm not gonna say anything about these people's biography. When I get to it, I'll look back on it. For us, first of all, it's a program question. The Director of the Administration has a very important duty, it's a newly established administration, the Council has great powers for us it's important to hear what their program is. I think this is for who knows which time, not only in these few months of this term, but also in the previous term, where we have initiated, we have insisted that we hear these programming things, and we have not been able and then with Mr. Soskovic it was what it was. He also couldn't come here, and he couldn't tell us anything about the choice, so after all – what's going on, right, that we didn't hear anything from him during the debate? The Director of the Supervisory Authority shall be elected for the first time. Amendments to the NBS Act have established a new organisational unit – the Supervisory Authority of financial institutions. Something similar existed before, it was called the Bank Control Sector. This established sector has far greater powers, a team before I personally opposed it and a team before it was elected by the National Assembly. There's complete confusion, let's remind ourselves once again, of what the confusion is about choosing functionaries. The Board of Governors proposes to the Committee on Finance and is elected by the National Assembly, the Governor proposes the President of the Republic, is elected by the National Assembly, the Vice Governor is proposed by the Governor, elected by the National Assembly, and is elected by the Director of the Supervisory Board of Finance and elected by the National Assembly. This is all further complicated now, as the first term of office takes three, four, five and six years and for this reason, to change one official each year, in the first term the director of the Board is elected for five years, not six years. I think it's complicated enough, with all those obligations that these officials, when elected, will have to deal with. Director of the Administration, I say newly established and with great authority, the question is whether such a administration should, but given the state of the banking system and what else we will hear in the coming months, it is obvious that such a administration should be established in the transitional period, until things are brought into order. I took a look at Mr. Jeftic's biography. I don't know this gentleman personally. Now I've heard some new details from his biography. I can only conclude that he worked 11 years in the NBS, first, as a field controller in the direct control of banks, and then since 2003-2012 as deputy director general of the Control Sector. If nothing else, he must know the situation in the banking sector and at least he won't know everything that exists in the banking sector and all those problems. He's got a very hard and terrible job ahead of him. Unfortunately, we saw what happened to Agrobank. The Agrobank problem was solved by making the "New Agrobank" so it turns out it's in no way a solution to the problem. The Agrobank was then attached to the Postman's Savings. We've heard there are serious problems with Vojvodina Development Bank. Based on what we heard in the Assembly Hall in the previous weeks and days, I am not sure that 150m euros, how much will be capitalised "Vojvodine Development Bank", can solve problems in the functioning of Vojvodina Development Bank. Then we'll probably have another problem to discuss in one of the next days. Obviously, the director of the Supervisory Authority will have to pay special attention to the state of the state banks, banks where the state has capital. The time behind us has shown that it is not necessary for the state to be the majority owner. The state managed to destroy banks in which, as a minority owner, it had control over the functioning of these banks. A serious problem is a low level of credit charging, first of all, in state banks, banks where the state has its own capital. A serious problem is the inability to collect collateral security. Those two problems will certainly continue to generate losses. The next step, if this continues, I sincerely hope not, but there is no encouragement that will be different, the next step is that there will be a threat of saving, private savings for all of our citizens. If the savings are compromised, the banking system in general will be compromised. If the banking system is compromised, fiscal stability will be compromised. If fiscal stability is compromised, macroeconomic stability will be compromised. Am I right? (Alexander Jugovic, from the post: Yes. Thank you. It turns out that over the past year, the state has intervened 600 million faiths to resuscitate the situation in the banking system. It turns out that 600m euros is not enough. It is likely that another few hundred million euros will be needed, if nothing else, for Vojvodina Development Bank. The Vojvodina Development Bank needs 1 '50m euros. These are not the funds of the republican budget, but these are the funds of the consolidated budget. These are not the funds of the Republic of Serbia, in budgetary terms, but are the funds of the AP Vojvodina, but in the consolidated budget everything comes to the same. Turns out there's no money. The deposit insurance agency has about 200m euros to secure the eight billion euros Mr Ostojic was talking about. If the Agency doesn't have the funds, who has to help? It's got to help with the budget. It's the same one that guaranteed "Serbiagas" 190 million yesterday that "Serbiagas" can't pay back. It's the same budget that has to jump into any situation where there's a problem. In a situation where the budget can no longer react, fiscal problems will arise. In a situation where fiscal problems arise, full macroeconomic stability will be compromised and that is the fact. It can't encourage anyone and I don't believe that anyone in this country can make anyone happy, whether he votes for the laws that this government or the past government proposes, whether it doesn't vote. He won't have an easy job as director of the administration. No easy job will have a council of governors either. Five candidates have been proposed. I know all five of them myself, I'm friends with someone, I'm friends with someone. They have a mandate from one to five years. As explained, they are proposed under the NBS Act. I am reading the explanation, which is a quote from the NBS Act - the choice, incompatibility of functions and conflict of interest of the members of the Council, the provisions of Article 19(3) and Article 20 shall be applied accordingly. The law. In addition to the conditions laid down in Article 19(3). The law, at least one member of the Council, must have 10 years of experience in accounting and audit affairs. For a member of the Board of Governors, a citizen of Serbia, who meets the general conditions for establishing a working relationship, has a higher education in second-degree studies and at least 10 years of working experience in the areas of economy, finance or banking. Five candidates have been proposed and, as I have already said, the choice for us is not personal, but a program thing. We regret that with the members of the Council and the future president, we will not be able to open all those important issues, and that is why we need to open them today, because the first report will arrive in a few months, so we can discuss it. It's paradoxical that the candidate for president, not paradoxically, has given the interview, but it's paradoxical that during the election, from his interview, we can read certain programming things, and we don't have the opportunity to discuss it today in this room during the debate. The council has enormous authority. These powers have been changed and further strengthened by these two amendments to the Law. The Council shall adopt the Statutes on a proposal from the Executive Board. I'll only quote two, they're first and second, so by nature things are among the most important. Under one, the Statute adopts and, under two, determines the regime of the dinar course on a proposal from the Executive Board with the consent of the Government. Until the changes of a few days ago, the Statute was confirmed in the Assembly. It's gone. In the future, only the Council has done so, which has further increased powers and increased the responsibility of the Board of Governors. The second thing is that it determines the dinar course regime on a proposal from the Executive Board with the consent of the Government. I think the government's consent is necessary for a simple reason that, despite some international institutions insisting on full independence, NB Serbia is not in a situation where some other countries, which have regulated financial markets and where the role of the Central Bank is completely different from Serbia. There must be coordination on some important things, because the essential things that developing countries need to solve are different. The basic question, if we are talking about the regime of course, what the government's position is and what the Governor's Council's position is, because that is a fundamental question that will break many things in economic policy for the next year, two or three. We don't know what the Council's position is. We know what the government's position is. The government came up with a fiscal strategy in which it answered the question -- how it sees the course regime. The fiscal strategy says the following thing – the basic macroeconomic framework for the next three fiscal years will be to accelerate economic growth with a reduction in macroeconomic imbalances, notably inflation and current account deficits. The government says it's a priority. As a priority, that's fine. But when you look at the projections the government is making -- the next three years GDP growth in Serbia will be two, three and a half and four percent. Inflation will be 5.5%, at least that's how it's projected, then five, and in 2015 4.5%. When projections are compared over the next four and a half years, GDP growth in the euro will be 23%, and GDP growth, we are talking about real growth without inflation, will be below 10%. In other words, the government is projecting to boost 14% in the next four years compared to the euro. In other words, the government is sending us a message that in the next four years the situation in Serbia will be 14% better than it will be in the EU. The problem of inflation and current account deficits will be resolved by the government by strengthening the dinar. What does the Council have to say about that? How can a dinar strengthen in a country where no macroeconomic indicator is balanced? If inflation is between 12% and 15% in 2012 and 2% in EU countries, if productivity in EU countries is far higher than in Serbia, if all our parameters are imbalanced, how is it possible that the dinar will increase compared to the euro? It will be a serious conflict with what Mr. Savic was saying in his interview. He said something completely different. One, not the only reason for the current account deficit is course. If it's balanced, then it can't give away these parameters that the government is talking about. Professor Savic is among one of the experts in macro-economics and is an expert in competitiveness. If the euro is strengthened over the next three years, how will Serbia's economy compete with the EU's economies? It's a question we're interested in and we'll expect an answer in the next few months. It is difficult to secure a stable course if the main macro-economic aggregates are not balanced, i.e. they are in serious imbalances. It will be a serious challenge for the government. It will be a serious challenge for the governor's council. Unfortunately, in this debate, we cannot get an answer to that question. It'll only be a question, and we'll get the answer in the months ahead. At the very end, I think it's a technical slip that can be corrected by the day of the vote. Article 19 refers to provisions for the selection of members of the Council, as well as Article 22. Article 22(5) says that, in addition to the conditions laid down in Article 19, at least one member of the Council must have at least 10 years of experience in accounting or audit operations. I carefully looked at the biographies of the proposed members of the Council. Mr. Savic is a professor and deals exclusively with monetary economy and macro-economics. Mr. Stamenkovic has graduated from the Faculty of Natural Mathematics, has immense experience and I have no objection to him, but he deals exclusively with macro-economy and some other things. Mr. Kovacevic has an impressive biography. I have no objection to his biography. He's graduated from Natural Math College and he's a macro-economyist. Mr. Nikola Martinovic is a businessman, a well-known businessman and deals with finance. As far as I know, he wasn't in accounting and audit. Mr. Ivan Nikolic, his field of expertise are macroeconomic movements in Serbia and the environment. I'm guessing it's a random slip because one of these five would have to be an accounting and audit expert. I looked at the website of audits and accountants, they have 47 authorised auditors and 7,300 authorised accountants, and none of the five candidates are on that list. I would like to ask that we receive information that out of five candidates meets the requirements of Article 22. The NBS law, because it wouldn't be good if the election of such important officials was a violation of the law by the National Assembly. There's plenty of time to get us information that out of these five meets the conditions and then we can pick out a functionor. We won't vote against this proposal, and there's plenty of time to get all this data by the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4647	Thank you. National MP Vuceta Toskovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4648	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. – the dignity of the National Assembly, indirectly and directly through the MP from the LDP who found out that there was malignancy in the government, that disorder in all segments of society. The government is trying to put order in all segments because it is not the merit of this government and these authorities, so all the culprits for this state of business in the country until three months ago are most likely these representatives, who have now commented on the NB. That's why I'd like to make a statement in the voting day for the violation of this member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4649	You're not even letting me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're asking me to vote. All right. If you insist, we'll vote in the day. I have no obligation to explain. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Article 127(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it is great that you gave me the opportunity to speak after Mr Toskovic, because he says that the perfect order is in place. I think that there is a perfect mess and that at this point the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is being violated by the fact that between 25 and 30 parliamentary cards of members of the SNS parliamentary group standing in parliamentary units and the system shows that they are present. They're not in the O.R. I do not belong to people or to MPs who claim that MPs must be constantly in the O.R. I think they should take part in the debate, that the quorum is given to those who are interested in such a debate. I don't mind that many MPs aren't in the O.R. It bothers me that it violates the Rules of Procedure, which is a mess, which is done to damage the dignity of the National Assembly and that someone is pushing an internship or minutes in the O.R., and it's not in this room. Please ensure that these cards are removed and that the Assembly can continue in a normal manner. I don't mind the Assembly voting on whether Mr Ostojic was in banks during the previous period. I believe not. I'm sure he didn't. He wasn't part of the government. He was a client of some bank, I guess, just like all the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4651	Thank you. I ask professional services to ensure that the cards of MPs who are not in the O.R. are removed from the electronic system. Mr. Stay, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4652	You allowed a violation of the Rules of Procedure of a gentleman who resented what I said in the discussion. So, will the ruling majority now prescribe what we of the opposition say? How can it not be a mess? It's a mess. Do you read the paper? You don't know who's listening, who's cutting off the column. Does that have anything to do with us? Is that the previous government? Half of the previous government is in the current government. I don't know if you mean these new ones in the government or the old ones when you say the previous government. If you mean old, you mean SPS, Dinkic, Rasim Ljajic. Why are you accusing the opposition of making arguments? It's not a court of law. That's the facts. If they are not acceptable to you, say you're right, Mr. Stojić, it's a mess, that's a fact, but it's an unacceptable fact for us. He was an MP from the early '90s who confessed to the truth, but said it was unacceptable. I think we're a step away from having such a valuable court of the ruling majority imposed on the opposition. Maybe you'll impose on someone. Believe me, LDP is hard, impossible, failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4653	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) We move to the order of speakers according to the application for word. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go. One moment, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4654	I'm sorry, but this time, the Rules of Procedure got hurt too. There's another mess in the government and even in society, and as far as I know, the newspaper they're writing, it's not like that. The opposition has the right to say anything, but something like this to say -- that there is a riot in the government and banks and in the economy, I think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's no way to treat the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4655	I understand, but you've advertised the same member of the Rules of Procedure. If you have carefully watched the Rules of Procedure, you cannot advertise twice the same member of the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm asking you to keep an eye on the Rules of Procedure when we take our word for it. Excuse me, Mrs. Batic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4656	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will agree well with my colleague Obradovic, because it is a shame that the members of the Council, as well as the proposed director of the Board, are not only present, which cannot be justified, but it is pointless not to take part in today's debate. To a good extent, I have to rely on everything that is, quite correctly, said by my colleague Ostojic of the LDP. It is interesting that in the biography of the person, proposed as director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority, there is no standing anywhere, there is no indication that Mr. Jeftic was the bankruptcy manager of "Metals Bank". I remind you that Mladjan Dinkic, in 2008, introduced an emergency payment with Mr. Jelasic in the then stable "Metals Bank", and that then the bankruptcy managers were the proposed directors of Srdjan Petrovic, who, I will remind you again, was arrested for washing Saric's money. Srdjan Petrovic, also a bankruptcy manager, who together with the proposed candidate director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority, Djordje Jeftic, changed the computer programme from "Peksima" to "Antegra" to hide and destroy traces of Sharic's money laundering. I remind you, Mladjan Dinkic was the finance minister at the time. I ask the question – how is it even possible for Djordje Jeftic to be proposed by the Finance Ministry Committee whose head is Mladjan Dinkic? How is it possible for the office to be proposed and proposed for a term of office of five years? I will again point out that he was a bankruptcy, or forced manager of the Metals Bank, along with the arrested, later and convicted, Srdjan Petrovic, at the moment when the Charic money laundering affair broke out. They were then appointed by Governor Jelasic, who is also today a co-worker of the finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4657	The word is Mrs. Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4658	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107. – violation of the Parliament’s dignity due to the public’s guidance on wrong conclusions. I don't understand what Mladjan Dinkic has to do with someone who was laundering Saric's money. I think bringing such things into a relationship absolutely disinformations the public and leads to wrong conclusions. I don't know who the gentleman is, I don't know him, based on some of his references, and then to commit any crime. Mladjan Dinkic, then party G17 plus, and neither the URS has ever stood behind any crime, nor have they ever been linked to any perpetrators. I want the public to have that in mind. If I'm not mistaken, the party you belong to had a lot of members who ended up in prisons, but that doesn't mean you're a criminalized party. Please do not mention the name of the president of a parliamentary party and do not bring him into contact with criminal circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4659	Thank you. The word is Olga Batic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4660	First, I have to answer to an esteemed colleague, if any of the parties are connected to criminal activity, that's exactly G17 plus. You and your party have countless criminal charges in front of the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime. For the DHSS, the public knows it's not true and the prosecution knows it's not true. If you need proof, go to the D.A.'s office and take for yourself a bunch of copies of criminal charges. I mentioned Mladjan Dinkic, because in 2008, Mladjan Dinkic, president of your party, was minister of finance. Yes, he was. Did he introduce an emergency management with Jelasic in then stable Metals Bank? Yes, it is. Were the bank's bankruptcy managers just proposed director of the Financial Institution Supervisory Authority? Yes, it is. Was Srdjan Petrovic a bankruptcy manager? Yes, it is. Is Srdjan Petrovic arrested and convicted of laundering Saric's money? Yes, it is. Don't mix the thesis and blame the others. I may know that the truth bothers you, but it's your problem that you and your party have to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4661	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4662	My colleague spoke directly to me. First of all, Mladjan Dinkic was not the finance minister in 2008. You completely twist the facts and use incorrect information to deceive the public. I repeat again, your basic thesis is incorrect. Mladjan Dinkic was not the finance minister in 2008. There was an assembly of parties who were communicating with us this way saying that G17 plus the party was a thief. They're far below the census now. I don't recommend this kind of political struggle. [[Olgica Batic, from place: Right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4663	I'm breaking up the line. Mr. Djuric, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4664	I'm reporting in the order of the registered speakers. I'm surprised you interrupted this debate so quickly. Not to get into it, maybe the debate was interesting. Not many reported for discussion. Which way are we discussing in these three, three and a half months about the National Bank? You see how much damage has been done, how much instability has been brought into this entire sector which, I must admit, in the previous years or in the previous decade, no matter who was in charge of financial sector issues in different governments, was still relatively stable. It's pointed out in the local public. It is also highlighted in reports from international organisations. Meanwhile, in just a few months, with some problems, with regard to the functioning of state banks, which were obviously problematic, you have almost succeeded in destroying the very little stability, and those stable, sustainable relations, guarantees of financial stability that have been linked to our banking sector, especially the National Bank of Serbia. That's why I don't think it's right to talk about candidates for members of the Board of Governors of the NBS in this way and in this atmosphere. You have formally responded precisely to the remarks made by Mr Jugovic and some other MPs that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not oblige the Assembly or require that those who are proposed for certain functions, in this case in independent institutions at the National Bank, attend the session. I must say, because of the fact that they are not here today and because of an image that, for less or more reasons, follows this Parliament, citizens, those who follow this transmission, can be referred to the wrong conclusion. It's true that the candidates aren't here today. It may be a mistake, a failure, a neglect of those who run or run the ruling coalition, but I must say that all candidates who have come in neatly attended the Committee meetings or meetings of the Finance Committee and spoke very closely about their biographies and what they intend to do as potential members of the Board of Governors. It has nothing to do with the parties, it has nothing to do with the ruling coalition, I think it was simply part of the education or professional integrity of these people, and they met that condition, which I am certainly grateful for. Those MPs, who are not members of the Committee on Finance and Public, unfortunately remain deprived of the possibility of their argumentation or their biography, especially since those who are actually politically proposing them, who created today's agenda, did not feel the need for the National Assembly, Parliament, or the public to highlight the most important parts of these people's biography, as well as how they see their future engagement as members of the NBS Board. Here we come to the key question, what Mr. Ostojić spoke about and what Mr. Obradovic was talking about. So this is the thing that's beyond party interests. We have a serious problem right now. Since members of the Board of Governors, most future members of the Board of Governors have a healthy view of public finances, has a healthy view of the economy, has a healthy view of the state organisation system in this regard. These attitudes differ dramatically from what the ruling coalition does in the first months of its government, especially from what different parts of the government do. The objectives of the future composition, or future members of the Board of Governors and the objectives declared by the Government, although it is quite difficult to determine exactly what are the objectives declared by the Government, given that these statements and announcements are very often or mutually opposed or legally, politically and economically at the level of absurdity, what will happen when these two intensities, when these two intentions, when the expertise and politics, to use this syntagma that has been popular in our public policy for years, come into conflict? It's about the biographies of those people that are proposed here. The biography of some of them is impressive. I agree that nothing can be resented either career, nor what he did, nor behaviour, nor honesty in Mr Stojan Stamenkovic's views. Such assessments apply to others or at least some of the other candidates, but if you look at their biographies, you will see that they have in one way or another influenced the creation of economic policy or some parts of economic policy, that they were parts of different regulatory bodies, commissions, institutes in the past few decades. They did their job the best they could during those periods of their lives. The problem was always when politics got rough, when she denied all the laws of science or all the laws of smart economic policymaking and began to come true at the expense of those interests of some of her private interests. So it was before the 1990s in some segments of our history, so it was throughout the 1990s, and so it was in the largest part since 2000. None of the proposed members of the Board of Governors agree with those projections that our government defines as projections, as measures, as performances of our economy, our budget, our country next year. I remind you that they didn't agree with these 2011 and 2012 projections either, that I was talking about years when Serbia was run by different governments. So nothing has changed in this manner and it has proved that they, as well as LDP and representatives of other parties, were right. Mr. Obradovic was partly talking about it. So these people will hardly agree to function in the system not to say anything, to suffer some kind of pressure, when they see that inflation next year will not be 5 or 5.5%, as it is deliberately unrealized by the foundations of economic policy, i.e. the 2013 budget, as it could not be and as it could not be in 2012. And then it was projected at 4 or 5%. It'll be three times bigger at the end of 2012. That's not what we're talking about, that's what economic experts in this country are talking about, that's what some institutions and an integral part of these institutes are talking about, part of their methodology, people who are doing these research, some of them are candidates for members of the Board of Governors. When you try to impose these people in January, February or March a measure that will destroy the 2013 budget, such as the previous government, each in its own time, destroyed the 2012 budget, you will have a terrible conflict, first in the National Bank and then between the National Bank and the Government, and then in the government itself between individual ministers or individual centres of power, in a much more drastic way than you have at this point, even though these conflicts exist. Let us once stop looking at ourselves, at our coalition and inter-party relations in parliament, and see what the world is doing around us. The European Central Bank and the European Commission projections came out yesterday or the day before yesterday as regards the movements of countries' economic parameters in the environment and EU countries. In almost all countries, the decline in social product will be greater than originally thought, only Serbia claims it will remain at a 1% decline. This is so optimisticly claimed by the current finance and economy minister. It's gonna be a lot more than that at the end of this year. Almost every quarter of this year has already been well above 2%. I was already talking about inflation, it's going to be three times bigger than it was designed. It's almost pointless to talk about. The only thing she wanted the ruling coalition to offer, alone through the government or through a newly elected governor, was to preserve the relative stability of the course. That didn't happen. The dinar either falls sharply or grows sharply. Neither, nor is it good for the domestic economy, it is not good for the state and it is not good for the citizens, or for the citizens, I must say again, we often talk about it, it reactivates one of the greatest traumas that exist, if it can be said, there is Professor Korac, perhaps I am wrong to use that term, in the collective consciousness of the citizens of this country. For citizens, fear of returning to the 1990s is not a fear of returning to turbo folk, so it is not even a fear of returning to conflicts and wars, it is a fear of inflation, of price instability, of empty shelves, of those prices that were photographed in New York by Vuk Jeremic these days, making an illusion that they are reminded of prices from Serbia in the 1990s, although I am not sure how much he can testify about it and how much time he spent in Serbia in the 1990s, but it is a completely separate topic. So, in all the countries around us, the gross social product will fall this year, next year too, or be around zero, and in this country alone, ministers, Prime Minister, we can forgive him, there may not be enough knowledge needed in that area, the governor of the National Bank and all representatives of the ruling coalition speak of optimistic growth of 2%. What happens when it becomes obvious in January that it cannot be realized? As in the previous government of the ruling coalition, which did and supported it, it was clear that the 2012 budget could not be realised but at the time of the adoption of the budget, at the end of December. Let me remind you, some of us were MPs in the previous assembly of parliament and the problem with the IMF last year began in January 2012. I must say, you've outdone the government even in that. We were here when the budget was prepared and announced, about two weeks ago, were Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dinkic and talked about a projected reduction, i.e. halfing the deficit to 3.5%, to 3.6%, and meanwhile, Minister Dinkic appeared to boast that the IMF was ready to agree to a significantly higher deficit, i.e. the deficit around or something above 4%. Only in this country can it be political praise. The IMF's assessment that it is ready to agree to a 4% deficit also does not talk about the IMF and other international financial institutions' prices and trust this government. On the contrary. The International Monetary Fund tells you that it doesn't believe in your projections, that it knows what you know, that the deficit in 2013 won't be 3.6% and it won't be 4%. In the meantime, you demonstrated it through several announcements. Through new public enterprises duties, you have adopted a 190m-euro guarantee to Serbia, and you expect another 170m-euro loan. You loudly announce by taking on debts in health care. This is one of the quasi operations because the state has actually been in debt so far, only this has been shown on the part of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. These are all parameters that will affect the projected policy of both the state and the NBS in 2013. Every single one of these people you've proposed for the candidates knows that. It tells you in a more or less direct way. None of these people depend on the appointments you're preparing. The Liberal Democratic Party just doesn't want to push these people further into this awkward situation. They're professionals, not dependent on the government, they can survive, they can function, they're successful, they can earn, and they can live members of the Board of Governors or not. But when you bring them into conflict with you in your own politics, when you drive them out of the NBS for a future period, as some previous governments did in the same room in the 1990s, who will then be faced with the problem? Will they be the culprits, will they be the culprits of those who are politically appointed to the NBS? As representatives of the ruling coalition read here, it is very important from the aspect of this debate, a statement, a message from the governor that the government is sticking to its work and doing its job. It's a key question for this debate. We'll solve the problem of whether anyone has 10 years of experience in accounting and audit affairs. For the balance of this country, it doesn't even need any particular experience, or any particular knowledge from it. There have been situations in previous years that have been wronged even on tables and budget additions, except for these political frauds and political cheatings I was just talking about. All other countries are taking steps. They're being taken over by their National Banks, taken over by their governments. Only in Serbia is everyone pretending like everything's okay and we'll be able to function on these principles forever. If you had brought candidates for the Governor's Council, if we had talked to them here for an hour, if that were possible, I think it would have been more useful for this country and this Parliament than anything we've done in the last three months. But, no, you and this process see it as an interpolitical or inter-party struggle, and very soon you will face an economic, economic and then a political collapse. Then it will not help press conferences, or attempts to get the government across Serbia in line with the republican model, or anything else. We're going to be in a situation where we've been in trouble five or ten times over the past 30 years, and we've never once been in touch with measures of serious reform, of modernising this country, of creating a system that can sustain and sustain itself. What's happening today, the way it's being discussed here, the replicas, the injuries to the Rules of Procedure that come from the ranks of ruling parties or the biggest ruling parties, are hardly capable of bringing us some kind of optimism. Therefore, the LDP will refrain from voting on proposed members of the Board of Governors. I have already said that compared to some of them, it is difficult for us to vote against, but we are warning you of the huge problems you will make for these people, this Parliament, this state and all the citizens of this country because of your irresponsible, above all, economic and economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4665	Thank you. Mr. Marko Atlagic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4666	Dear Chairman, the previous speaker has injured the Rules of Procedure of 107th Dignity of the National Assembly for a reason, and I will quote what he has said – the failure of those who have created the agenda of this assembly because there are no candidates here to elect members of the Board of Governors. To avoid this assembly being deceived, and to the public, candidates for members of the Governor's Council are not required here to be present, so much about it. Please, yes, in the future, because several members of this parliamentary group from which the predecessor discussed not the agenda and some of the lies were spoken. Thank you, whoever suggested it, and you know who suggested these candidates because they're highly educated, highly skilled and above all moral people. If there are no objections to the members of these candidates for the election of the Council, then it is really hard to talk about the difficult economic crisis. We could especially talk about who brought the country into collapse, and Serbian citizens know very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4667	Thank you. I'll respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Atlagic, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed since I warned Mr. Djuric about the subject during the discussion. As for the 107th and his injuries, I also disagree with you. If you wish, there can be a vote in the Voting Day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Olga Batic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4668	Thank you. I've reported for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure before the presentation of MP Bojan Djuric, but you haven't stopped me three times already. Namely, I am advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 27, paragraph 2 and the violation of Rule 108, since I was first reported in accordance with the order of the People's MPs for a word in today's search. The colleague who replicated me twice, spoke directly to me twice, and twice direct instructions are the name of the party to which I belong. I didn't hear from you that you warned her in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4669	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. In fact, she's replicated your discussion twice. The first was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica. Later, you called each other by giving each other the right to the line. The word has Bojan Đuric. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4670	Mr. Atlagic's replica, he practically commented on my presentation... I'll respect it if you think there's no basis for reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4671	Mr. Djuric, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, no discussion. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4672	It is good to hear from the ruling majority MPs that the proposed members of the Council do not have the obligation to attend the plenary session of the Assembly today. The same attitude was in the election of governors. We got the biographies, what's the governor gonna do, what's the plan, etc., we didn't know that. So this is the best example of the newly created good practice promoted by the ruling majority that full control over all that is going on in the NBS will have this Parliament and all the amendments to the law are justifiable that I need to literally know everything that is going on, what are the plans, what are the intentions and what is the business of the NBS. Therefore, you can have these excuses by calling on the Rules of Procedure, but Serbian citizens can right now see how I need it now, as in the election of governors, to discuss the assumed programmes of the Board of Governors' jurisdiction. We all agreed that their powers were great. Secondly, the ruling majority is also trying to show one harmony in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Minister Velimir Ilic says that with his fellow ministers, not because of this harmony to be heard on the phone, but only have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4673	The theme, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4674	I'll be back. I forgot about the subject. By choice of governors, the governor's primary task was to halt the growth of the euro course and to stop growth, above all, basic life supplies, to establish price stability. After the governor's election, since we also elected the governor under the assumed programme, under political pressure, which is inadmissible, given the constitutional position, as regards independence and independence of the NBS, we have an increase in basic life supplies of 30%. Therefore, I would like to stress, on behalf of the SP and the DHSS, that this debate would indeed have full meaning, that you should have invited the proposed members to choose the board of governors of the NBS, that indeed in one reasoned discussion we at least see signs of what they will do and what their relationship will be with international financial institutions, since we also have members of the government, such as Mr Krkobic, who boasted that "it" said several times to the IMF and other financial institutions, and now we see that we are still in a position to... (The MP was interrupted by the chairman, due to the end of time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4675	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing up a joint... Excuse me, Milorad Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4676	Just a few sentences, the SDPS fully agreed with the proposal of members of the Board of Governors and we consider it to be very professional people and some objections that were made that these people had no experience in the revision, international arbitration, I can say that they do, above all, think of Dr Miladin Kovacevic who participated in a multitude of audits and above all "Gallenika", "Mobtel", "Parking-servis", "Azotare Panchevo", etc. Also, the candidates were in session of the Finance Committee, questions were asked, we received all the necessary answers and a certain democratic procedure was respected. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-08-0.u4677	Thank you. It concludes a joint single search. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the JS parliamentary group. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the debate is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group of Serbian Progressive Party - one hour, 19 minutes and 19 seconds; the parliamentary group Democratic Party - one hour, three minutes and 13 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia - 31 minutes; the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 26 minutes and two seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 19 minutes and 50 seconds; the parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party - 17 minutes and 21 seconds; the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - 14 minutes and 52 seconds; the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 11 minutes and nine seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 55 seconds; the parliamentary group of the United Republic of Serbia - eight minutes and 52 seconds; the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Hungarians – the six minutes of Serbia's six and six seconds of business group – the six minutes of the Serbian group – the six and the six minutes of the group of the Serbian group of the six; the six seconds of the Serbian group of the Serbian group – the six seconds of the Serbian group – the Serbian group – the Serbian group – the six seconds of the six, the six seconds of the group of the six seconds of the six seconds of the six seconds of the former, the group of the group of the Hungarian group of the group of the Serbian group of the six; the six; the group of the six; the six; the six, the group of the group of the six seconds of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the six; the six; the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the six; the six; the six, the six seconds of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the women of the six; the six; the six of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the women of the women of the women of the group of the women of the women of the six; the six of the six; the six; the six of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the women of the group of the group of the women of the According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that according to Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a single search for a written application, have not been submitted by any MPs. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a single search into the draft decision. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a draft decision in the voting day. The honourable Members of the People agree. 27th and 87th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this is what we are finishing today's work, and that the session will continue on Tuesday 13 November 2012, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
