ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1469	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Zoran Bojanić, Milanka Karic, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, Miodrag Nikolic-Feman, Aleksandar Radojevic, Slavica Savic and Milorad Stosic. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC TEXT You have received an amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on the draft law. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Does anyone want a word? On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments to Article 2 have been submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a five-minute break for professional services to prepare a reminder to resume the session. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. I ask the service of the protocol to introduce new MPs. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MPs in the National Assembly to the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the National MPs' mandate to complete the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a Report of the Administrative Committee which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate to the Members of Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs. Tanja Radovanovic and Radovan Raicevic, selected from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, SNS, Nova Serbia, Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Businesses of Serbia, Coalition of the Association of Refugees in the Republic of Serbia, Movement of Serbia-BK Force, People's Peasant Party, Bosniak People's Party, Democratic Party of Macedonians, Roma Party, Movement of Vlach Unification, Movement of Socialists, Movement of Business Revival of Serbia, as well as Jozefu Shandoru, elected from the election list of the United Regions of Serbia – Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for the MPs Tanja Radovanovic, Radovan Raicevic and Jožef Shandor. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. The President reads the oath, and the Messengers repeat it. "I swear to do the duty of the people's emissary in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution. To defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and for the best of all knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia truth and justice." I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We're continuing our work on the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Ljuban Panic, Radmila Gerov, Olgica Batić, Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Nedja Jovanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The Committee on Justice and State and Local Self-Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ljuban Panic. Here you go. Sign up, please, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1471	Thank you. I have proposed an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Out-of-Parking Procedure and I will look back on a few things that I consider important for the law itself. Since the Citizens' Protector submitted an initiative to amend and supplement the law in the previous term, he said we have about 6,750 legally invisible persons in Serbia. I consider it particularly important to accept part of my amendment to Article 71a, to add Article 2, where the managing authority in charge of the management of the parent books would be obliged to immediately and without delay notify a person who wishes to exercise his right to enroll in the parent books of the possibility to initiate an out-of-party procedure. Why? Because it is expected that people who have this big problem, when they come to the authorities of the administration, can remain uninformed about the possibility of exercising their right and in the out-of-party procedure being entered and become legally visible. I also suggested that Article 71g be added to Article 5, which provides that in the event of an out-of-party procedure, it should be established that the person is already listed in the parent's book and automatically suspend the procedure, and because of the economics, and the savings that we now need, and thus, to delete Article 71l that regulates the matter. I suggested to Article 71d that the words "and the half" should be added to point out that, apart from establishing age, access and identifying half of the people enrolled, how, although this is a rare case, they would not leave a certain part of the area unsettled. Finally, I just want to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that this law has been given twice. Once on August 13th, that we were preparing to discuss it, and then on August 21st, again, even though it was a summer break and there was no rush, this law was directed by an urgent procedure, and then instructed by MPs, although we know that this law is an initiative of the Citizens' Protector together with the Citizens' Associations "Pracsis" and the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies. Given the charges we have, which is that there is nothing left of the previous government that has come, it is a little inappropriate not to write whose initiative is to amend this law and to say, to do so, to do something that is still the work of some other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1472	Here you go, Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1473	Ladies and gentlemen, when we hear stories about what is correct or incorrect behaviour, I would just like to remind myself that for the amendments sent by my colleague Panic, I asked yesterday on behalf of the Legislative Committee that he be contacted in order to possibly correct some amendments, or technically arrange some amendments, precisely with the desire to make good amendments to the opposition, even if these good amendments come from the former regime, to be adopted. I think it was my correct behavior and I think it would be correct to mention it at the pay phone. So much for correctness. As for the other amendments tabled by my colleague Panic, I must first point out that a good amendment actually concerns the matter it regulates, in my opinion, the Law on Parent Books. Yesterday, i.e. the day before when we had a discussion, we heard that the whole set of laws that should regulate this area is already being done, that, with the co-operation with the Legislative Secretariat, it is also working on a law that regulates the parent books, ID cards and other laws, so that this problem of legally invisible persons can be resolved to the end. Finally, whether it is correct or incorrect for SNS MPs to pass the law, I think we talked about it the other day. We have heard at least 30 times from representatives of the opposition and the former regime that this law should propose a minister of justice, as it is within the jurisdiction of the minister of justice. I heard from some who said, it was Wednesday, that the minister of justice was afraid to come to defend the law on amendments and additions to the law on non-partisan proceedings, and then yesterday we had a situation where Minister Selakovic sat here for three hours and that no one asked him any questions about the Law on Public Records, or the Law on Out-of-Parcial Procedure. So this speaks of how in fact certain MPs of the former regime are inconsistencies in that criticism who should propose laws, who should not propose laws. We in the SNS believe that the law on extraparnical procedure, which we have proposed, is more than quality. We're completely behind this law. The day before yesterday, I also publicly thanked the representatives of the non-governmental sector headed by PRACSIS and Centro for improving legal studies for helping us draft this bill. I mentioned at least 20 times that one version of this bill entered the Assembly by the protectors of Mr. Jankovic's citizens and of course, and today I thank them for helping us, and experts. They repeat today that they are prominent lawyers, such as Dr. Dejan Djurdjevic, Professor Oliver Antic and many others wrote texts on this subject. Dr. Sasha Gajin wrote several books. We used his materials to make this law. Let's stop this discussion of whose law this is, as it's written. Once again, the resolution of legally invisible persons in Serbia has been initiated by the SNS and thanks to the SNS, the final text of this law will be adopted in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1474	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP Radmila Gerov submitted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has adopted the Amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does he want a word? Mrs. Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1475	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, given that the Committee did not accept it, that is, it proposed the Assembly to reject this amendment without a single word of reason, which is why the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the LDP was not accepted. When we talked about the text of the law in principle, I was talking about that the Law on Parent Books is a parent law and that the procedural law cannot introduce new terms that are not defined by the Law on Parent Books. A member in 71a. in your proposal for text – it is proven to be born. There's no need to prove birth, because a man submits a request and is seen to be born. The law on birth certificates says it proves the fact of birth, which is the time and place of birth. For this reason, we have made a full proposal to amend Article 71a. and position 1 and point 2. We're also in Article 71v. Did the suggestion to delete the word, but to add the words, by which the person is known. Of course it was necessary for the board to accept it, because if you live in a small environment, everyone knows that you are Happy Djokić and you can't ask to be Dobrivoje Petrovic. For that reason we asked to be a member of 71v. fill in the words by which the face is known. Also, in article 71. We have added words – it can't be for more than 30 days, because you are in Article 71z by your proposal of law. provided that the time limit for a solution to determine the fact of birth is 90 days from the date of submission of the proposal and that that period may be extended for a maximum period of 30 days only if a decision has been reached on the ground of suspicion that the person has been resident in a foreign country. I therefore consider this proposal to be in line with your article in Article 71z. A better solution to this article 71g. Finally, the proposal also referred to Article 71g. where the promoter says the face had a place to stay. We made a suggestion to say - the face was staying. The residence law defines what residence is and is the place where citizens are temporarily staying outside of the residence in the Republic of Serbia for more than 90 days. This is defined by Article 5. The residence law, where the citizen is required to report the residence to the competent authority by place of residence within eight days of the day of arrival at the place of residence. Since you have not adopted this amendment, and by law you have defined that person should have a place of residence, it will not be able to exercise its rights before the court, because the judge will surely seek confirmation of his residence. In order to confirm your place of residence when you go to the MUP, you need to register the place of residence personally on the prescribed form, where the following documents need to be attached – the valid identity card of the applicant, proof that the person will be staying at the address at which he declares his residence. a statement by the owner of the apartment and proof of the fee paid on behalf of the Republic of administrative fee for the application of the residence. These people who are not in the legal system, invisible persons, can't have a residence certificate because they don't have an I.D. For this reason, we have submitted an amendment and considered it appropriate that the term – the residence, which exists in the Law on residence, should be replaced by the words – that the person was staying, that the term would not be used, because the procedural law cannot change the terms that have already been given to certain parent laws. We've had opportunities to hear that many laws will change because of this law. I guess it's enough to compare this law to the Law of Parent Books, with the terms of the law and the term of the Law of Residency, but now we're doing it later. For this reason, the LDP also said that this was not the most appropriate way to solve the problem of these persons by supplementing the Law on non-partisan procedure, but that the most comprehensive solution was to supplement the Law on Parent Books with a special chapter that would talk about all of this that you are saying here in this bill. I'm really sorry, and I don't understand why you refused my amendment, especially without a word of reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1476	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an explanation in this case can be given orally. So, I'm happy to give an explanation today at the session. It doesn't have to be in writing. I even think it's better this way, because then the argument can be heard by all colleagues and fellow MPs on the one hand, including the citizens of Serbia. The pillars regarding the amendments and what we have heard many times now in the presentation of colleague Gerov, which is – parent law and other laws, as I remember there is a Constitution and laws with us. There is no law of more importance and the law of lower importance, the parent law and some other laws. All laws are equal, all laws are equal. In this context, there is one saying in the theory – system laws and ordinary laws, and even that, we have to agree, is not right. In this context, whether a term is used in one law, such as the Law on Parent Books, and in the law that we have proposed is used another term I see no problem. The termins will agree later. The case-law will bring them into line but I would still have to explain that we did not directly accept this amendment to stress that there is both practice in law and court procedure, which is that however, procedural laws, and the law on extraparation is such a law, dictate terms in all other laws. For this reason, we did not want to accept amendments concerning certain technical items. As for the amendments to the deadlines, listen, we, as SNS, have defined precisely in the proposal. If one member writes a deadline, I do not see the need to repeat that time limit in all other members and to indicate it again. It's enough in one place, otherwise the text job would be too heavy. As for the other amendments, and especially the amendments concerning residence, you know how, and on Wednesday when we discussed this law several times, we have all agreed that this law wants to help legally invisible persons who are poor in most cases, they are probably lower education, they are largely members of the Roma national minority, but there is no need to discuss it. So they're often people who live the nomadic way of life and have lived for 20, 30, 40 years, and now they're just going to be enrolled in their home books thanks to the law proposed by the SNS. It's hard to talk about a place in one word when we talk about nomads, I agree that the law that regulates the matter of residence and residence is accurate on that matter, but here we have a specific community. Finally, there's another reason. Now I'm going to explain why some of the amendments have been rejected, and this explanation will later certainly be related to some other amendments. So, when we carefully studied all the recommendations of international organisations, which led to the proposal of this law, I will only mention, for example, the position of the UN Committee for the Rights of the Child from 20 June 2008, is explicitly requested from Serbia, directly, that when a law that regulates the status of legally invisible persons is done in a way that is simplest to make the procedure as simple as possible. At the very end of the line, I have already mentioned this report by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child since 20 June 2008, specifically at point 33), and it is repeated in point 34) as part of the conclusion. So all the amendments that complicate the procedure are for that reason, for example. It is these recommendations of the UN Committee for the Rights of the Child, which is directly addressed to Serbia, that have rejected all amendments of this type. The exact same is true, for example, in the European Commission Report on Serbia since 14 October 2009, the same is repeated in the Ekri report on Serbia since 29 April 2007, etc. In one word, of course we appreciate the effort made to write these amendments. We find them extremely and technically high quality, but I think I've explained why we don't want to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1478	Thank you. Radmila Gerov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1479	Mr. Cvian, you didn't convince me that there were enough good reasons why you didn't accept the amendment. In Article 71a. You say that a person who is not listed in the MKR, and the time and place of his birth cannot prove in the manner provided for by the regulations governing the keeping of the parent books, can submit a proposal to the court to determine the time and place of birth, and to the brackets to prove his birth. So, that person, who lives in Serbia, has to go to the municipality first, into the home service, so you define the position one, and first try to enroll, and only then, if rejected, has the right to out-of-pared procedure. You didn't write anywhere that such faces don't have to go to the home service. You have defined that only by the attitude of one, Article 71a. So, you're sending in the municipality, they're applying, the Home Book Act is quite clear how such an ex post enrolment is done, so you have these deadlines, and then that face goes to court. You say those faces live like nomads, I think I understood you so, and all the laws are equal by our Constitution. I really don't see a reason, no valid reason, that if any law defines a term, now we are, by supplementing the law on non-parny proceedings, introducing another term. So, you're going to change the whole law on birth certificates instead of the fact that you're going to change the whole law on birth certificates by proof of birth. It was easier to say "the fact of birth" here, and the problem would be solved. We didn't complicate anything compared to your law, except that we just put in terms that are used in the Law of Parent Books. When you say residence, that the judge in the outsider procedure, he has to ask for confirmation of a place of residence that that person doesn't have. Secondly, I really think that the most complete thing was, when you're already sending a person to a mothership's municipality, that you've introduced a special chapter in the bookbook law, and you wouldn't have any problem with it. Matricians would end up doing a better job. I think legally invisible people are far simpler to go to the municipality and finish their work than to appear in court. It's far scarier and more difficult for them, and I suppose such faces and fear the court. Secondly, in the light of the law, you stated that no funds were needed. That's when I told you that, and how much skill you need, which you're going to have to define to the courts, and plus the courts you're going to bury, you said here with 7,000 cases, and then someone at the press conference told you about 20,000 cases. This now exceeds more than 100 million needed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but we will reach 300 million. I think you should accept our amendment. What's wrong with saying the face was staying? Today he can stay in Negotina, and the next day he can stay in Leskovac, but he has no confirmation of his stay. Now I wonder – how will the judge in the outsider procedure, when you introduce a term of residence, identify that person. He'll ask for confirmation in accordance with the law. Does this mean that we will now wait for the amendment of the Law on residence, the amendment of the Law on Parent Books, so that judges in the outsider proceedings can work? Indeed, we have made this proposal very well-intentioned to speed up the process of these persons and I see nothing terrible. Why didn't you want to accept this part where the face is known? Can't do that if it's known in a town that it's called that and so on, that it logs in under another name. I really don't think you're right. I think it's the most comprehensive, so I'm still saying it in front of the LDP, the fastest, most efficient either to amend the Law on Parent Books, because you first send that person to the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1480	Thank you. You have received the resignation of MP Vladan Vasic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly. On the occasion of the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case set out in Article 78(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, it proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of that Law, establish the termination of the term of office of the People's Parliament. Accordingly, and in accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 1 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased, before the time it was elected, to the MP Vladan Vasic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. We're continuing our work. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to have to agree in part with the presentation of my colleague Gerov. What kind of justice we've been left in an amanet by the former Justice Department, we should all be afraid of this kind of justice, but that will be settled. However, an organ must decide. So why don't you court in an out-of-pard procedure. The courts are state authorities. They have a flag. We all have to respect them, but now that most of the cities don't have them, that's the credit of the former Justice Department again, but we'll settle that, too. As for the rest, however, there is one reason why we did not accept the name under which the person is known. Just by proving and enroling the MKR will take care of the original human data. Perhaps, by means of a diplomatic aid service that will provide information from abroad, through witnesses, it will be determined that a man who is known by a name is called otherwise. Let's find out this way, and later a man can change his name and name. There's a procedure for that. In one word, I did not dispute, but said that the amendments submitted by the LDP parliamentary group were of great quality. I have no doubt that they were well-intentioned, even on the contrary, extremely high-quality, certainly well-intentioned, but I think I have now explained in detail why we did not accept these amendments. Most of these things will soon be passed adequate laws where terms, if necessary, should be changed, where deadlines will be specified. As far as the courts' jurisdiction is concerned, it somehow seems to us that it is the most logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1482	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Olga Batic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Mikovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1483	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it is a huge thing that the MP has on the basis of article 107. The Constitution has the right to propose laws. Also, what is provided for in Article 40 is very important. The Law on the National Assembly, that a People's MP, in accordance with the Law and Rules of Procedure, has the right to propose laws and other acts, including amendments to the proposals of laws and other acts. During an earlier period of work of the National Assembly, we met with an attempt to abuse the amendments in order to obstruct the work of the National Assembly. During the duration of this call, I don't think we've come across such a case yet, and I hope we don't run into such cases when someone's been putting up with the amendments just to slow down the procedure. And that's why it's hard for me to talk today, that I don't misread myself by those who think I'm against putting up with a certain amendment, or if I do well-mean that a certain amendment is not quite complete because, again, I have to tell you that Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly define that the committee responsible will reject the incomplete and offensive amendments, which will be reported to the National Assembly. The fact is that when a person submits an amendment, it is necessary to clearly determine which member of the bill is subject to the amendment. We have two papers in front of us. One was written on 29 August 2012, and submitted on 30 August at 19.20. The second was written on August 30 and delivered early at 18.20. It's obvious that this paper that was dated was made on August 29th that it was a printing mistake and it was probably written on the 30th. So I suggest that if you keep your papers in front of you, you can follow one and the other amendments, or amendments to the correction. The fact is that in the papers submitted to the National Assembly Office on 30 August at 18.20 it is clear that amendments have been submitted to regular numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4 where the material proposed in Article 1 has been treated in some way. Proposal for a law supplementing the basic Act on non-partisan procedure to be added to the basic law in Article 71v, second amendment 71g and 71d. In the paper that we received as a correction to the amendment, there are only two amendments, Amendments Regular No 1. and Amendment Regular No. 2, where it is practically defined essentially that these first three amendments are grouped into one, to concern Article 1. The bill and if it doesn't say anything, while that practically fourth amendment now becomes an amendment with a regular number 2. I didn't want to put this dilemma at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, just expecting that the MP who submitted the amendment would be here in a position to make an explanation. In that sense, I tried to contact her on the phone just so that such mistakes wouldn't happen to us in the next period. It is good that the Secretary-General has in some way also concluded in the reminder that, after all amendments to the amendment have been made, it is practically necessary to discuss the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 2. True, it doesn't say in the papers that came from the amendment promoter. It is, in that sense, to warn us not to have similar inaccuracies happening in the next period, and especially so as not to be able to reject a certain amendment on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I am especially saying that my conscience is clear because so far I have asked for the rejection of only one amendment during the term of this National Assembly. This is about MPs from another parliamentary group, but that is why I believe that in the next period that anyone who submits amendments, even in the process of preparing a session, if such a technical error happens, we should point out to the well-meaning amendment that something that is most difficult does not happen, and that is to reject the amendment and that the amendment does not come into debate. Right now, there are legal possibilities for these submitted amendments to be discussed here in the Assembly. There is even a legal possibility for a certain amendment to be adopted in the procedure to become an integral part of the bill, i.e. the law. I am most confident here, because most likely within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we will be forced to reject amendments if such inaccuracies occur in the coming period. That's my contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1484	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The First Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The First Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on the Constitution of Questions and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Milica Radovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted four amendments to this bill and I thank you for having heard of these amendments and for accepting of the four total three. I think that, to a significant extent, this bill will be improved, primarily because in situations where it is necessary, deadlines are extended, I primarily think of delivering in writing through diplomatic and consular services. Everyone who knows how it looks knows a 30-day gift isn't enough to do something like that. On the other hand, we think that the deadline for the appeal should be reduced from 60 to 30 days, that's also good that it's accepted. However, this amendment that I have submitted is a key amendment, because it removes all the doubts that we have discussed during the principle debate. The amendment to which we have responded says, i.e. the text of the law says – once the report has been received, that is, when the deadline for the report is passed, the court shall appoint the hearing to be called by the applicant and the person whose birth is proven. We felt that in this case we should react and say that the court calls on all persons whose presence is necessary. Why am I saying this? It is primarily because it is not usual for the court to order which persons to be called to the hearing for determining the time and place of birth. I simply don't get it, why was the law's authority to narrow down the circle of the court's calling? Why is it not possible for the court to call on those persons who believe that their testimony could contribute to the determination of certain facts or at least in that these facts that are not indicated or proven make it likely that the formulation that we have given is far more accurate, I will explain why this is so. If we look at other procedural laws, we won't find any such provision of the law where the court narrows down the possibility of calling the person that he thinks their presence is necessary. Here, I'm only going to bring up three situations, and I'm sorry that the promoter isn't here, based on which I'm going to prove that I'm absolutely right. We have a situation, if we say that the court calls only a proposing and a person whose birth is proven, what happens when their statements are completely different? So what do we do? Will the court, of course, by the law on litigation, set up a temporary representative, or what will he do in that situation, if he is already limited to the right to call? On the other hand, the promoter jumped himself into his mouth, so to speak. In the second position, when he said that the court had to listen to two witnesses, it means, if we go to a logical conclusion system, he and those faces call. So my amendment had to be accepted precisely because it was a legally logical amendment. Because that's how every kind of abuse is used immediately at the beginning. We also have two more situations. We have a situation where a birth-finding procedure is triggered by a person who has a direct legal interest in it. He knows that the person whose birth is determined there is, it physically exists, but is unable to reach it. There is no information about where he lives, where he resides, he may be staying abroad, but it is impossible to deliver his written, or invites him to come to the hearing itself. What's going on in that situation? In this way, the provisions of the legislator have already been condemned. That's why we're proposing this amendment and helping the promoter get out of this trap. Look, let's say the third situation, I'm making this argument on purpose to make it clear, I'm sorry again that the motionary isn't here to answer me, because I really don't think there's any argument to this. The third situation, the person whose proof is determined, is a minor. Whether the court will insist on the child's presence in the process given his psycho-physical properties, I justifiably believe that the number of such cases will be large. Are we going to insist on bringing a face to court? We know that every exposure to such unpleasant situations, because, of course, showing up in court is not pleasant to anyone, not especially to a child, means, given his psycho-physical properties at his age, to his general possibility of being a litigator in the process or of course the person represented. Do we think that this way will not contribute to further and greater trauma of his personality? I say and repeat, there will be a situation in practice when there will be no possible person whose birth proves to be present in court, there will be such situations. Life, of course, is unpredictable, they may not be in large numbers, but we will be in this situation, so I suggest that the amendment be accepted. He is legally harmless, he on the one hand only allows the court to have absolute freedom in its decision and in making the decision itself which it will call, because that is, in fact, the essence of his work. If the point is to determine the truth why to narrow the court's ability to do what he or she has the right to do. On the other hand, it is precisely the biggest complaint that we have put on this bill that, because of its inaccuracy, it leaves the possibility for many abuses. In order for that to not happen, I think it was in this particular article of the law that we were supposed to intervene. It was necessary to feel the need for court proceedings in these particular cases to be regulated more strictly. What happens in a situation where the entire evidence procedure will be brought down to the testimony of two witnesses, what happens if both witnesses consciously entered the proceedings and consciously accepted that they falsely testify, if we assume they are corrupt. Will the solution resulting from this process justify the purpose of adopting this law? Of course not. Will the objective of passing this law be satisfied? He won't be satisfied with the goal. Therefore, please do not deny the court the possibility of calling the persons it considers, whom it is convinced that their presence is necessary, because the evidence and their hearing would contribute to clarifying certain facts which may be partially disputed in the given procedure. Why not allow the court to decide, on the basis of its conviction, whether the matter is clear enough, and if it is not, that it invites other persons. This amendment was exclusively and only had that purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1486	Here you go, Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have already said once in the previous, one of my statements that all amendments that complicate the law and complicate the procedure will be rejected as proposings, as SNS, precisely because we want to respect the recommendations of international organisations and recommendations of domestic experts, NGOs and citizens' protectors, i.e., recommendations that they say, do not one day solve the problem of legally invisible persons to solve it in a complicated way. I mentioned a report by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child from 20.06.2008 at 33rd and 34th. I mentioned the Ekri report, I mentioned the European Commission's report on Serbia, I don't know if I mentioned the report, that since September 9, 2010, the second European Commission report on Serbia, also pointed to the problem of legally invisible people and insisted on solving, not only problems, but solving the problem in an efficient and simple way. It's not the end. The UN Human Rights Committee in its March 19th report again criticised Serbia for legally invisible persons and sought what would be said in English "sex performance", the right to enroll. Furthermore, the UN Committee for the Elimination of Race Discrimination repeats something similar on 10 March 2011. So, respecting the recommendations of international organisations, respecting the findings of the Citizens' Protectors, specifically about his 2011 report, page 34, which again states that there is a need to reduce complications, to help people solve their problem of legal invisibility, just by respecting all of this, and we have made a law that is as simple as possible, and for these very reasons, the SNS will not accept any amendment that complicates the procedure. There is another reason, just by reason of the circumstances, one amendment to the DSS is not accepted, and all that court can do accordingly, therefore, thinks that it can invite anyone in the code to call and any of the witnesses should be called by or by a third party, if that is the case, or if it does not violate the rule, the basic principle of out-of-party, litigation or criminal proceedings, which is to go to efficiency. So these are the reasons, now we're giving an explanation, because you know how, you said, what if two people decide to testify falsely? I will tell you what, there will be a criminal case against them, and they will drink five years in prison, that is what will happen to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1488	The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1489	I want to speak on the amendment, of course, about the argument that the Proposer's representative made here, about finding the simplest solution to solve the problem of legally invisible persons. I think you were wrong not to accept my colleague Radovic's amendment, and I'll tell you why. We once had a principled debate on the effectiveness of the law. When the laws on litigation and criminal proceedings were on the agenda, a representative of the promoter, then Justice Minister Snezana Malovic told us that we must solve problems in litigation and criminal proceedings as easily as possible, because I have a large number of pending cases. At the time, the DSS parliamentary group had just discussed the subject, which is more important, time or truth. We felt that there was no need to shorten the evidence process, to deny the parties the right to propose evidence, only because the court would have more cases resolved, and that, in most cases, in such a procedure, the citizens would suffer and the states would suffer. We have just submitted this amendment and wanted to minimise the possibility of abuse of the law. You know, if you go with logic that you need to find the simplest way to solve the problem, then the simplest way to be just a person who's interested in making a statement, and we can eliminate both of those witnesses and that's the simplest way. There's nobody but a face that says, so I was born here and there, then and then. It's the simplest way. If we go one step further, and we say we need two witnesses, then we're already opening up space to talk about determining facts based on the witness hearing process. Why? Any more means of proof would not have been used to prevent the state from being abused. We're talking about it here, and no one here slows down the need to solve the problem of the right of the invisible. The Democratic Party of Serbia has pointed to this through various laws for several years, which we have already talked about, which were here in the National Assembly. But let's not now, when we get into a situation where we solve this problem, we open up a space where the state will suffer the consequences. Or, at the end of the line, let's cut you down. We in Serbia have a big problem in applying or the consequences of law enforcement. The application of one of these laws can produce a lot of bad consequences. In the previous period, we had a large number of laws that we had passed in the National Assembly and that absolutely proved to be inapplicable. I think Serbia is the champion of non-applicable laws. Here, if an analysis were to be made, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, and it would be good to do so by the National Assembly's committee to analyse how much it is so-called. Pro-European laws adopted here. To make an analysis of how many changes and additions to the law were made in the previous assembly because at the time of the adoption of the basic text proved to be inadmissible. We're not just talking about the law, we're talking about decisions. Another problem is making decisions or making laws and simply keeping quiet. We were here in the National Assembly talking about it. Here, we have an example of the Constitutional Court's decision to determine the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the Duke's jurisdiction law. Everybody's quiet. Twenty-two provisions are unconstitutional, the story of how it will be negotiated, and we talk all the time cannot be agreed on the application of the law and the Constitution, but must be respected. Therefore, pay attention to the application of the law and the consequences of the laws. Our attitude here is extremely well-intentioned and our attitude is on the line of what we've been saying all along. We want to pass laws, especially procedural laws, which will determine the truth, which will prevent the possibility of abuse, and which will prevent new procedures, as we have said, that the consequences of the Law on Prosecution will be numerous complaints, numerous repetitions of proceedings, so now precisely because we want to prevent abuses from happening that we have a lot of criminal proceedings because of false testimony and all the problems that can arise here. Therefore, I ask the proposing's representative to think carefully, we have put up with extremely well-intentioned amendments. We thank these three that you adopted, they were more technical, and this one is essential. We believe it improves the law and contributes to the quality of the law, and it is about matter where this quality is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1490	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1491	So we have no doubt that all, in all four amendments, are to submit extremely well-meaningly. At the very end of the line, I repeat, we have three and accepted and I would not quite agree that these three are merely technical character, the change of deadlines in some cases is indeed welcome, and in particular the extension of the deadline in the first degree of decision where we are also as legislators, of a really one wish to solve a problem that has not been solved for 10 years, perhaps a little too short of deadlines, but the good 60 days will be quite enough. I repeat once again once again after the consultation and with the Legislative Secretariat, we believe that the amendment, which is this fourth, which we do not want to accept is in some way already regulated by the successive application of other laws. So, you realize that's not a malice either, which we don't want to accept the amendment. In any case, we thank those three who have accepted and truly appreciate the contribution to making this law even better and we have no doubt that it will apply in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1492	Thank you. Milica Radovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1493	I called right after Mr. Cvian, but I can explain it now, because the arguments are the same. I am, of course, sorry we don't understand each other on this point, and we could understand each other on all previous issues when amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia are at stake. You said my amendment complicated the procedure. First of all, he's not put up with that kind of evil intent, you said that all four amendments are well-intentioned, if we can accept that kind of classification at all. He's not complicating the procedure. He simply allows the court to determine the truth. Did I understand you correctly, that you are prone to the process of making it easier for you to sacrifice the truth? If that's true then, even though my thinking is true in that direction, then your argument in no way can I accept. You said these were recommendations from many international organisations, citizens' protectors and everyone else, which, of course, I support and I don't mind. But neither did they give an opinion on the amendments tabled nor did they write this text of the bill. If, in your explanation of my amendment, you are referring to their opinion, then you should have given them the right to write this bill. Also, you told me in the end about false witnesses. I believe you know very well what misery most citizens in Serbia live in. You know very well that someone for 1,000 euros for false testimony would accept even such a risk knowing that his responsibility and punishment in a process that could last many years would be nothing. Since we know what kind of justice system we've been left with and we know how effective he is today. Of course, please once again, if we need to read aloud what is written in the amendment, let us use legal logic rather than arguments that do not stand in this case. I call once again on you to consider the amendment and not to deny the possibility and the right of the court to call on all those persons who consider their presence in the process important to clarify the facts that have not been established or proven. Please read the text of the law again aloud in the position I have responded to and read my amendment in order to make it clear to the public what we are talking about here today and what we are arguing about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1494	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will fully agree that our judiciary has been left in a catastrophic state and I understand some suspicion that the judicial authorities will respond quickly in case someone falsely testifies. Thank God, the regime has changed, thank God we have a new justice minister, and I'm sure that very soon the judiciary will work much, much better. As far as the discussion on this subject is concerned, this time I will report to you last time, so all the amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group were very correct, very high-quality, and I'm just under the impression that we disagree on this one amendment as lawyers. I agree with you everything you've said, but I'm convinced that without that amendment, it can all be done. I can call myself a third party, but come on then we'll discuss this obvious legal disagreement later, but you know what our people say: "two lawyers - five opinions". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1496	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1497	I called earlier, but you didn't notice. I wanted to react to the non-refuse of the untimely amendments by Ms. Olgica Batic, or Miss, which two of the committees in charge failed to reject as untimely, since they were proposed on August 30th at 18:20 p.m. So, after the principle debate began. Also, her technical correction, and we were here to witness how hearty she was. Its technical correction refers to an amendment that had three rows, and its technical correction allegedly consists of a number of pages. So, what I'm saying is that we're like legislators, and I'm one of the ones who signed this bill on a non-partisan procedure, that we're, like, too kind. It has been mentioned here several times that the poor are very corrupt, that our people are poor and poor. Our people are honest and honest, and the misery and poverty of that people are unsustainable to see. I couldn't agree more. And our people, though poor, this mostly poor and poor people, are mostly honest and not the subject of bribery. Mostly bribery and corruption, it should be sought on other sides, it should be sought in health care, but let's say about this law, we can look at the police, we can look in the judiciary. With that in mind, I mean, unless the poor girl is bribed, unlike the others who have, I'm saying that because of the network of courts here, we're resented that we're going to let the birth of people who aren't being led here or born. Em's poor, they can't be fooled by any books that were born at all, so if they die, then there's no record of their existence. So here it is said that we are easily allowing their enrolment. I say it won't be easy, given the network of our courts. The poor and poor will be on their way to prove their birth. Seeking a competent court, some will travel hundreds of miles, since the former minister of justice or injustice has allowed us to have such a judicial system, that we have the court of its party. I think that poor people are going to charge transportation costs like this, and if they walk, they're going to travel ten days to the competent court, try to prove the fundamental right to be born and that one day when the time comes to get married, one day when the time comes for them to die so they can be enrolled in the books of the dead. I am not asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure on that amendment by Olgica Batic, but I would like to say that future committees are taking care of the untimely amendments and that they are rejected, so before the amendment's proposings honor us with various inaccuracies, let's say that the amendment is late and one day at a time, and their technical corrections are longer and five times more than the amendment they have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1498	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The First Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The First Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1499	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank the promoter for having the hearing to accept the amendment, although I must say that he really is of a technical nature and I'll tell you what it is. It is a solution to the time and place of birth that the court is obliged to make that decision within 90 days. In point 3 of the statement of appeal, the court shall decide on the time and place of birth within 60 days of receipt of the appeal. My suggestion is that this deadline be reduced to 30 days. I thank the promoter again because he accepted it, although I would prefer that he accepted the previous amendment from my colleague, Milice Radovic, because he really is fundamentally changing something in this law, and mine is just technical. In an oral explanation, which Mr Cvian's proposing representative gave during the previous day, that is, the day we spoke in principle today. Among other things, it is said why this law, such changes and additions to the Law on Procedural Procedure, are proposed immediately at the first extraordinary session, immediately after the summer break, is the need to solve the problem of legally invisible persons, i.e. persons living without documents in Serbia. Especially those who are not enrolled in both parent books and on this basis cannot exercise their civil rights, such as the right to work above all, although I can see that other citizens of Serbia who are enrolled in the parent books that have neat documentation, this right cannot be realised. They also cannot exercise this second right to social protection, to health care, to education, especially higher education, and of course I'm talking about these first citizens now, meaning apartrids, they can't really participate in society's lives. My amendment was on the trail of this speed the promoter mentioned, so I see he accepted it, because he understood that I was well-intentioned, as he said. Otherwise, I ask that we no longer discuss these categories of well-intentioned and unfavorable amendments, because it is simply not the essence of parliamentaryism, and I think it is a bit of a hairline and a logic that I bear an unfavorable amendment. I just can't stand him because I think he's fixing something. I'd like to put that aside for another debate, not here in the O.R. My impression is that there is little talk about the other side, today Mr Cvian spoke more about it and I would like to talk about it, which is that another need is behind this quick submission of the proposal, which is the need for EU pressure to address the problem of apartrid in Serbia. To resolve the issue of citizens living without documents, or persons, are no longer citizens if they have no rights. Serbia should therefore be the first country in the region to solve this problem, and I will read the statement because I do not want it to be in my mind. He says – Serbia is aware of the problems of apartrids, people without citizenship and, together with the UNHCR, is working to resolve it, and by adopting amendments to the Law on non-partisan procedure, it could become the first country of the region to address the issue of aparttria, the head of the UNHCR office for Serbia, Eduardo Argoleda, said today. So, there is indeed, and Mr Cvian read today and the opinion of the European Commission, i.e. one and the other report on all this, and the Committee on the Rights of the Detect, which is certainly one way of pressing the EU. I must mention another fact that is very important for what I want to present later, which is that Serbia only joined the '61 Convention in December 2011. A year. So in 2011, we approached it. Which is why Serbia is, in fact, rushing through this whole procedure. I'll try to answer that, citing a few facts. The first fact concerns whether Serbia has official data on the number of people without documents. That's what I was saying in the principle search. Mr Cvian spoke of some 15-20 thousand, a very stretching term, a face, Saša Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector in his report in the spring of 2012 talks about 30,000 people. When we talk about the number of persons that aren't listed in the parent books, we come up with some different data again. Mr. Jankovic's report says 6,000 people we have that aren't listed in the parent books, Mr. Cvian has also spread from 5,000-6.750 of such persons. So we don't have accurate data, we agree on that in principle. We don't have because we missed all sorts of opportunities between each other and a list that could have come up with that number. We need to pass the law in order to solve the problem of 6,000 people who need to be listed in the parent books. When we solve the problem of those 6,000 people, will the law stop? Of course not. Then we come to regret why the European Commission, why Europe, why the EU wants and hastens us to pass this law. It seems to me that they actually want to solve their problem for our citizens living in their territory, as unwanted citizens, and they want to deliver them to us, or return them to Serbia. Which is perfectly normal for no one to interpret as I said, Serbia must accept its citizens, that is the basic thing, Serbia must accept its citizens when they return to Serbia. What's the basic question is, where are these citizens now, if we haven't adopted this amendment, Mrs. Radovic, will be returned? Will they be returned where they say they were born with two witnesses, or where they were born or their parents? If, for example, they were born in my Valjevo, to return to Valjevo or were born in Pristina to return to Pristina. I think that's the basic issue this law deals with and should deal with, and therefore, Mrs Radovic's amendment is very important throughout this law. In fact, no one's saying, no one's proposing, no one from the parliamentary group who proposed this law, doesn't say what the essence of this law is. Don't talk about him referring to refugees. It's not about refugees, it's about how we're going to stand up to the 6,000 problem, or whether it's 6,000, or if it's going to be 100,000, or I don't know how many thousands, but I'd like to talk as responsible people, as MPs, openly about what this law is about, how we're going to regulate all that, because this problem is a problem, and it has to be regulated right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1500	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1501	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, I am first of all pleased with the understanding and recognition of the need to accept this amendment and be an integral part of the bill itself. Why? Because in one dilemma, only a legal dilemma, not to get in the way of a breach of the system laws, in particular procedural laws, we have recognized and I am pleased that a unanimous decision has been taken on the board when this amendment has been adopted. We have recognized the fact that the Law on Court Orders and the Law on Courts has not precisely defined the two-stage decision-making in these situations. That is why the amendment, which envisions the decision of the Greater Court in the second degree of appeal, was not only acceptable but also the necessary amendment. Again, the question arises - why? Because we would be in a situation where judges are neither guilty nor later called due to ineffectiveness, because of the delay in proceedings, that the proceedings are not followed by the principle of a reasonable trial, which would also lead the judges into a kind of vicious circle that is in charge of deciding in the second degree. It's normal that this shouldn't be a precedent, because this precedent would be in one dangerous situation for amendments to the system laws. Of course, this precedent will not come to life and, of course, this amendment will only improve the quality of the amendment proposal itself and the addition of the law on non-partisan procedure. In this direction, I will most sincerely thank my esteemed colleagues Cvian and Mikovic, who have given support in terms of recognising the need to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1502	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1503	The question raised by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic after consulting with counterpart Srdjan Mikovic, we failed to have a clear answer, so I repeat this question for both the proponent and the MP for clarification, because I consider it important that we also talk here about the application of the law as seen by any of us MPs. So, does a person with any documents, based on the rules on illegal stay, return to Serbia, have this person the right to seek, in an extraparate procedure, the date and place of his birth with two witnesses or not, on the basis of amendments to these laws? It didn't seem to me that this possibility existed. However, after co-worker Milica Vojić-Markovic explained, I simply think it is good that at this stage of the adoption of the law we hear the opinion of the knowers, therefore, lawyers, professionals or those who are here to interpret the proposal of their law. I fully understand the need and we advocate the adoption of amendments and additions to this law for all persons without any documents invisible in Serbia, to access the status of a legally visible person in the easiest way possible. What has now come to me as a question – does this member open up an opportunity for someone who owns any document to get new documents and enrollment in the birth certificate because it did not seem to me to read this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1504	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1505	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's finally clear this up once and for all. I can see that in public, somehow these two witnesses, especially people, have noticed that they are mentioned. Let's make a deal, of course the witnesses are just one way to prove some fact. In this case you insist on two, you can do three, you can do five, one isn't enough, but it's not the only form of proof of some fact. The court, irrespective of the acceptance or non-acceptance of certain amendments that we have discussed today, has the right to request and to apply additional means of proof. We stated in the law, in addition to the documents... What if he comes with some documents from Germany? So, additional documents can be sought, documents from our embassies can also be sought through international legal assistance, or whose diplomatic and consular representations abroad. So it's not enough and it can't be enough to appear, unless the court as an independent state body, at least it should be independent, but we didn't quite inherit it, it has the right to seek further evidence past two witnesses. Any evidence used in any court proceedings will also be applied in this form of outsider proceedings. So, I think I finally made it clear that it's not a matter of two witnesses, in some of the reasons I've read, some Afghan from the trunks gathering two witnesses and getting enrolment in Serbian-born parent books. It's not enough and it won't be possible to apply in practice. One more thing to clarify, it's that the birth certificate isn't enough to gain automatic citizenship. Under the Law on Citizenship, it is necessary to prove both origin and other circumstances, so that if we have talked here all the time about possible abuses in the application of this law, it remains the possibility that we have heard several times – whether some witnesses will falsely testify. People who falsely testify exist, but there's also some judiciary that's going against those who will react and send them to prison for five years. So I think I finally explained and explained. We are absolutely in the position that the court has the right to apply additional evidence mechanisms, regardless of the existence of the amendment that we discussed earlier. It is the assessment of the court and, of course, that the court can give both the third witness and the fifth witness and the 10 witnesses and the documents and international legal aid and anyone's help and skill in the end line, all of this is foreseen in the law, so I think we finally made it clear that it is not enough, unless the court otherwise assesses, appears with some two witnesses gathered on the street and say – I was born in, for example, the mentioned Valjev.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1506	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1507	I understand what you're saying, but I didn't ask you that. So I asked you if, on the basis of changes and additions from this law, there is a real face that is from any basis, anywhere, according to rules and regulations where it came from in Serbia. That's what I asked. What you told me isn't the answer to my question. Secondly, in your observation of the birth certificate's birth certificate, you say that's not enough for citizenship and that it should prove its origin, quote. I don't know that such provisions exist in the Law of Citizenship, but that aside. So I can't ask more clearly. For 6,700 or 15 thousand or 20,000 persons or 30,000 persons living in Serbia and the moss are members of the Roma community or members of communities who, by their choice, by their tradition, unfortunately, or however fortunately, do not have any documents, nor do they know when children were born, nothing, I understand it all. I'm not asking what you've explained, although I would have objections here, but does anyone who isn't in Serbia right now and no one know if he was born in Serbia and somewhere else, according to their regulations, come to the territory of Serbia, do they have the right to use the legal institute of this member of the law? It is my question which has raised as a misunderstanding with me, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and I find it worth the debate, regardless of whether there are amendments that define whether the provisions of this article are clear enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1508	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1509	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I did answer your question. I understand that if I'm not mistaken, as a doctor of physics science, I'm sorry if I missed, I understand that you may not have understood my answer. I'm sure you have lawyers who'll explain more in detail that I've already given you an answer to your question. As for the obvious talk here about abuses, so trust me, I don't know how they're gonna get you out of somewhere, so they signed up for citizenship. I suggest that for these experiences you may ask the people of Prokuplje, perhaps some people from Prokuplje, who, about 500, 600, 700 a year ago, some say 1,000 passports gave and sold and handed over to the Albanians from Kosovo, who had no right to do so, which is what the investigative authorities are now conducting a detailed analysis. I wouldn't be surprised if you found some of those people who were selling there and what they were already doing with passports that ended up with Albanians. I wouldn't be surprised if you could find them in the membership lists and high-ranking officials of exactly the party you belong to. I don't know, so how to do abuse. There will be an opportunity for the investigative authorities to say something on the subject, and I'm sure those who respond to the team will begin to talk broadly, as well as those from the bank, which we have a chance to read in the newspaper today. So I answered your question, and about abuses, I really don't know how these laws are abused. Jump to Prokuplje, you have your colleagues and colleagues, so ask them how passports, citizenship and all the other Albanians come to buy land in the area of Prokuplja are issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1510	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1511	People's MP and an authorised representative of the motionor, I'd be happy to jump up to Prokuplje if there was someone there who proposed this bill, but there's no one here, but you're the one who's proposing this law. With all the attempts to answer one simple question first or not to give an answer, or failed to try with ad-homic remarks, you haven't given me an answer to a simple question and I have to repeat it. So, is a person not currently living in Serbia's territory but living somewhere, based on the regulations of that system, where he is now, when he is returned to Serbia, does that person have the right to use this legal institute? You tell me - yes or no. Secondly, I'm a physicist by education, and you know, if you spend two-thirds of your time in verbal defense of the poor, formalally uneducated to acquire the legal statute of visible persons, and then explain to me that I, as a formally educated physicist, don't understand a member of the law that you stand by in defense of the poor and the uneducated, then I have to ask you an additional question - how do you think they understand that member? The constitution and all laws serve to be understandable to all people. And you may feel that you have hidden your insecurity or ignorance by the content of an answer that you have sent to me personally or to DS to which I belong any observations, but it will not help the people for whom I ask whether they have rights or have no right to use this institute. I don't want to argue to you that you have the right to any position on me personally or on DS. It's your right, and as long as you say it in a decent way, it can be quite interesting for the debate. But that's also not the subject of what I'm asking. The issue was raised in the debate by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, and I think it is perfectly normal for anyone to see the problem that can arise from the vague application of the law the proponent asks. If you think disqualification is disqualification and an attempt to offend someone who asks a question of style that you can introduce yourself as a proposing, I have to tell you that it's not exactly a style that entertains anyone. Since it's easy to answer, when you send me to Prokuplje, to repeat, that there is someone who proposes the law in Prokuplje, I would be happy to go to Prokuplje, as I gladly go to every city and municipality of Serbia to see different people who deal with things. But there are procedures in this room, and the procedure is culture. This procedure obliges you to answer any questions asked by anyone, as to what is your constitutional jurisdiction, which is to propose laws and amendments. It is just as my obligation, as it is yours, that when I think a member of the law is unclear or that the amendment proposed is unclear, then I should ask the Proposer. It is up to the promoter to say everything about himself and about procedure and culture, but when he doesn't say anything about the law, then we have a common problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1512	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1513	Miroslav Petkovic, a graduate lawyer, graduated from the University of Belgrade Law Faculty. I don't have much to do with physics, but I'm guessing Mrs. Comic knows that the smallest surface area is for the given volume of the ball. That's what I know. I don't have to do physics to know that. We have not received an answer to a specific question – do such persons have the right or do they not have the right, can they exercise that right or can they not do so under this law? It doesn't matter where they come from. We can give an example – a member of the Roma national community is coming from Germany to Prokuplje, initiating the procedure. Is it under this law that he can exercise that right or not? If you have no answer to that question, say – no. If you don't know, it's no big deal. It's a shame to steal and be a thief, not a shame to know. But we really didn't get the answer, because of all these people watching the transmission, who want to do it right. This is the essential question that we've raised. There's been a debate about this. Just tell me if he can or can't do it based on it or on it. There's no question of false testimony at all, five years in prison and all. It's irrelevant in this situation we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1514	Thank you. Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1515	Let's answer it one last time. Is it possible to initiate the procedure? That's a good question. You got it. Can he exercise his right? That's another question. That's what the court decides. Let's split up, since we're fellow lawyers, of course, I totally respect people who have finished physics and doctors are right, to distinguish two questions. One question is, can a man like that run, can. Is he going to exercise his right? The courts in this country will especially, I hope very soon, really work exclusively under the law, the Constitution and the internationally confirmed treaty. As proven, both through witnesses and through any other help, it is therefore the matter of the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1516	Thank you. Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1517	If I may, I would like to contribute to the quality of this debate today. In fact, what Mrs. Comic mentioned, it is the essence of our wintering, which is why we will not vote for this law, and that is all about the reason why we insisted that the representative of the Justice Ministry be the authority to propose this bill, because he knows what is behind the law. Mr. Cvian obviously doesn't know what's behind the law, and that's why it doesn't suit you directly. Your question was more than clear. I will try according to the knowledge I know and in accordance with the interpretations of this bill that I have ahead of me to simply give you my thinking. It's possible I'm wrong, but I need someone in this room to correct me. The bill does not have any mechanism to prevent persons staying illegally abroad from exercising the right to determine places and births in Serbia. So this bill is necessarily about them, too. If there's a mechanism, can someone tell me what member he's supposed to be in? So the basic assumption that this person could prove his birth in Serbia is that he is staying abroad illegally. He shouldn't have any other documents in that situation. To be clear, of course, I'm talking about reading and I don't want anyone in this House to realize that we have anything against it, but let us be honest about it. That's why this much, in our opinion, wanders between six and a half thousand, 30,000, 100,000. We don't mind that, we're just looking for a clear explanation. If this law that we're discussing today is the basis for their return, let it be said. But now I have to express my suspicion. Mr. Milan Markovic, at the time of the adoption of the law on parent books, Mrs. Malovic had not yet assumed jurisdiction, which is why I am saying it was Mr. Markovic, because he was then the Minister of State Administration, was also faced with all these requests coming from the European Commission and did not include it in the proposal for a law on parent books. Whether the basis for our suspicion today is established or not, we'll see. Based on what Mr. Cvian does to us, we don't understand the essence, and we're legally logical enough not to say professionally, to understand what's ahead of us. I really thank today Mrs. Comicher had the most courage today, much more than all of us lawyers here in the O.R., to clearly formulate the question we are discussing today. I'm going back to the essence of the amendment that I've submitted. If that possibility already exists, then court proceedings should be made more strict. We cannot narrow down the powers of the judges and say, yes, you will make your decision based on the testimony of two witnesses whose birth is determined and on the basis of the motion of the procedure. Gentlemen, that's impossible. You'll have cases like this. Then what are we gonna do? Then who are we gonna call? That's exactly the essence of the amendment I've submitted. I'm sorry the amendment promoter didn't understand the background of my intentions, but she was well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1518	Thank you. Mr. Shane, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1519	I would just remind Mrs Comic that we were Members together in 2007 and if you remember the discussion then, why I was against the law on readmission, which your parliamentary group then proposed and then adopted in parliament, and I supported all the laws that you proposed, I said the following - that Serbia is waiting for about 50,000 people to return from the readmission process, which is very easy to establish. This particular discussion of yours is about you not being well-intentioned, you didn't really want to put this law in the right way. This vagueness of yours shows that, together with Minister Markovic, you have avoided dealing with this issue, and then when this law is adopted and someone has gathered the courage to say, and that was the SNS parliamentary group that I belong to as the president of the Roma Party, then you find yourself asking rhetorical questions – and what happens if it is? The key question is, why is that? That is because in 2003, 2007 you continued to sign contracts with the international community in which you clearly accepted that all former SFRY people in EU countries do not have documents to return to Serbia. If you signed it then, then it should be very clear to you that this law applies to all those persons that you then accepted to return to Serbia's territory, and not now to ask the question of who is to blame if these people get the documents you signed to return to Serbia. I think it is unfair for these people to ask such questions, as I think it is unfair to play with the fate of these people, it is not wrong for people who have been in the EU for 10 or 15 years, and your government has claimed, both to Swiss and German and other countries, that people should return to Serbia, because they are guaranteed here to live normally, to have jobs, etc. You got over 70 million euros for that. You spent that money in the corruption process, you didn't provide those people with apartments, you provided them with containers, you didn't provide them with a job, instead you provided you with some things, and now you're asking whether those people you gave guarantees to return to Serbia, who may have been born there, but their parents came from former SFRY territory, you're asking the question – what are we going to do with them? That is when you should have thought about it, and you should have listened to my argument in 2007 that Serbia must primarily create conditions for those who accept to return, to create conditions for their integration into this country, not for what is happening now. I agree with you that the question is very serious. I agree that it's not easy to identify certain things that can't lead to certain abuses, but it's not the point. The point is, do we have a way to protect criminals or do we not? I think that this law, in line with all the other laws that exist in Serbia, has really certain procedures that every criminal who appears in this territory, regardless of whether he came from the reading, is actually being prosecuted and responsible for criminal acts, and if some people whose parents are citizens of Serbia or citizens of the former republics of the SFRY for which your government has signed that they can return if they don't have documents on Serbia's territory, then we simply have to admit that you are that law that you made, those contracts that you signed then, in fact created a condition that these people can get documents in Serbia based on all of this. Why don't we understand each other about numbers? We've got two things to tell. One thing is – how do people get and confirm the fact of birth that, among other things, enrolls in birth certificates and the question of citizenship? I'm talking about six and a half thousand people. When we talk about 30,000 people, then we're talking about the number of people who need to get IDs, or ID cards. But these are people who already have certain preconditions – they are listed in the parent books in Kosovo, however, these parent books have not come this far with circumstances, etc. I would also answer to Mr Stefanovic, who was not there, if I hadn't said it by heart, because I'm making it up, but because Bozidar Jaksic wrote in one of his research, which was very referenced and financed by international organisations, that there is a serious question whether there are not all the parent books, whether some of them are burned, and on this basis we have to have copies and to prove in other ways. Let's put an end to this question. For all those you signed in 2007, to return to Serbia because they are in a European country and have no documents and are returned here, on the basis of this readmission agreement, it is certainly a very serious issue, surely a burden on Serbia, but certainly no one from this parliamentary club voted for it, nor did I vote at the time, which I was a solo MP. That's what I've been paying your attention to. So we have to take responsibility, this government, and for what you've been doing and for what we're doing today, to correct another bad thing that's been done 10 years ago. Just this. You're right when they wander the numbers of those who don't have an estimate. Then I said that 50,000 people would come back and so far, about 20,000 received documents and you can see it very easily from UNHCR and others. There are, like, 30,000 people left. Of these 30,000 people, 6,500 are not included in the parent books, and the other number, 23-24 thousand are people who are enrolled in different parent books, but have no ID cards. And then our estimates were very clear, but then you told us it was okay. Then you convinced us, along with the Roma National Council, that the funds you will receive will be spent in the integration of these people. Then when we had to strike in Belgrade and elsewhere, that your mayors from your government instead of selling places where these people are, these money, they make personal documents to these people, you build them containers, you push them past the dog asylum, and now you worry, because you've been dealing with these people for 20 years, and you know these people the moment you need to give them a pair of shoes and give them one shoe before the election, another shoe after the election, so you don't accidentally be fooled, so they don't give you a problem. Therefore, my proposal is to seriousise this debate and to make it clear that those who signed those contracts in 2007 and 2008 created this situation, and we now have these people, for whom we have assumed responsibility, to be in this country only again can we assume responsibility. It would be best for you to negotiate with the EU and say that they stay there, that you will no longer receive them, so that we can see where your European commitment is that we heard about the other day. Neither did you negotiate for these people, as you should, nor for economic conditions, how to export from Serbia in the coming years, 2014 but only there was – give us a background and we will do everything you say just to be exclusive representatives of the European idea. That exclusion and we're doing everything we need to be Europeans has led to this. The question you need to ask that government that was then for you as part of the government that did it. I have to apologize to the DSS, it was then Prime Minister Kostunica, but it wasn't your activity that you were doing back then. In that government, some others did so and in that government were Milan Markovic and other people who had carried out some activities and we have to say clearly whose side it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1520	Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1521	Thank you. I listened carefully to the content of the presentation, and that's a nice speech, except it has nothing to do with me or my question. Since the procedure is culture, and I listen carefully to what I'm being told when I'm being spoken to, then I won't be saving a few information that needs to be shared, because everything's written somewhere, just now we're all reading. The law you're talking about is nothing to do with my question, the Readmission Act. The law on readmission has not been passed by any parliamentary group. It was submitted by the government, as we are all MPs here. No one here is the government. You have MPs who support the government and MPs who do not support the government. These are inaccuracies in keeping the usual in the congregation that builds their procedures and listen carefully to you I only heard one message – you have no right to ask. You see, that's a sentence that cannot be said in Parliament. Everyone in Parliament has the right to ask. It's up to the promoter to give an answer. It's up to the promoter to say if he knows or doesn't know the answer, but every MP has the right to ask. My question was, once again, whether this institute will be able to use, I heard from the proposing's representatives that it will, except it depends on what procedure will be in court. This is completely irrelevant to my question, nor does the law deal with what will happen in a court that accepts, in a non-partisan procedure, that a person is seeking registration in a citizen's book, namely to seek with two witnesses or in any other way evidence of his birth. My question was clear and in no way at all, but in no way, it is not about the Readmission Act, because such a person can be found in Serbia's territory for many different reasons. As far as the Readmission Act is concerned, when and if the amendments and additions to this law, which I hope will be submitted by the Government or the Parliamentary Group, then we can talk about an analysis of the application of the Readmission Act. These are reports that are otherwise available, so that it can be made available to everyone whether the Readmission Act is part of the work of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly to enter the regime without visas from the EU. If you are criticising this law, it is possible that your parliamentary group is intent on abolishing the visa-free regime. It's possible. I'll be against it, I'll tell you right now, because it's the job of an MP to read and listen to what you're saying. If you feel that this Readmission Act is not good and needs to be changed, it means that, consequently, what the Readmission Act has been passed, which is a visa-free regime with EU countries, should be abolished. I can hardly believe that's the case, but come on, okay, anything's possible. In the end, I want to remind all of us of the weight of the spoken word. We've heard from you twice that you have the exact details of how many people there are no documents, i.e. Not a copy of the MKR, and how many people have copies but no ID. It is a data that is now official because it is spoken in the Serbian Parliament. It's a piece of information that I could not find until the moment you told me, that there were 6,000 people without a copy of the MKR and that there were 24,000 other people who had a copy, and they just didn't have ID cards. It is a data that will be able to benefit anyone because it is officially given at a session of the National Assembly. That is why I am very carefully measuring the words that I address both the representatives of the proposings and the MPs, and I closely follow what the rules and procedures are in our obligations in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the procedure is culture. The procedure implies that when a MP for any reason has doubts, ambiguity, doubts about a solution that is said to have an obligation, not the right to ask a representative of the legislator. If your answer is that I have no idea and I can't ask, or because of my education, I can't ask questions from some area, then we have a much bigger problem than the nature of the solution that has been given to the amendments and additions of the Law on the outsider procedure. I don't want to believe it's serious because I want to believe that we all here know what the job of the MP is. What I'm doing is the work of a MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1522	Thank you. Right on the line, Mr. Shayin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1523	Mrs. Komic, I believe you listened very carefully to me, but a stenogram can tell that you obviously didn't remember what I said well. First, I didn't say it was me or that the SNS MP group was against the Readmission Act. If you look closely at the 2007 stenogram, the question that I asked you then, or the coalition that suggested then, which came from the part of the coalition that you were leading, was just as formulated as what you're talking about today. I just said that you would understand very well, in 2007, you should have asked your ministers, along with them to answer my same question, and today that we are no longer asking that question here in the Assembly, because in 2007, you ignored that question. Then she wonders, have you become more caring from 2007 to 2012, or have you become more concerned by the loss of power and look differently at socially endangered categories, or are we simply talking about the way we think about it, which I don't think is the role of MPs. I spoke like that in 2007, and today I speak like that. As far as the data is concerned, believe me, I didn't make it up. I take the obligation to provide you with the materials I used to prepare this session, where the evaluations of serious international organisations have been made, and which in the reports and the Dolphins and all the information, however, obviously that data did not tell what it meant to be entered into the parent books and to get citizenship, which means second data, that second information is to get ID cards. So they're not arbitrary data. I take it as an obligation to send it to you. We're not against the Readmission Act. (President: Time. ) The last sentence. We're just saying that no conditions were created, and we were saying then, who were promised to be created for those people who came back. That's why you were in a position to remove the white Schengen. Not because the law was passed, but because the conditions were not met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1524	The word has Gordana Komic, a replica, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1525	I'm using the MP's time group. I have no reason to replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1526	I'm sorry, he's right about Nedjo Jovanovic. He answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1527	Dear fellow MPs, without the intention of arbitration on the answer to the question asked by Mrs Comic, at the same time through an amendment that appears in the contents of what Milica Vojic Markovic and the Proposer pointed out, above all. As a result of the SPS parliamentary group's support for this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Out-of-Parking Procedure, I must point out that the answer may have already been contained in the law itself. Then let's dismember it. The first question is an active ID issue. So, who can be the promoter? Article 71a states that it can be any person not listed in the parent book. Therefore, it absolutely implies that they can be persons pointed to by counterpart Vojic Markovic. On the other hand, the question arises – how will the proposal be resolved? Can the rights that are defined by these changes and additions be realized, or can those faces also be realized? Yes, if they have met the requirement of Article 71g, and he says that if the MIP, the competent authorities, the parent service on whose territory was a person whose fact of birth is determined, it is only then that person who obtains the legitimacy to decide on the facts of his birth. So, what's the decisive fact? The decisive fact is staying. Did it reside in the territory of the authorities of the parent service, the authorities of the competent authorities of the MUP or not? I can accept that the term of stay can be replaced by another term, did it live in the territory where that organ is located or otherwise, but in any case a defining factor or fact which could be a guideline for decision making and for the persons indicated is whether they met the condition already contained in the law itself – did they stay in the territory of the authorities that care about recording their data in the home records? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1528	The word is Mr. Palalic. There are 13 minutes left from an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1529	It is this point at which we show the importance of the amendments submitted by counterpart Milica Radovic. So, indisputable is what most colleagues have now brought out, and how did a colleague Jovanovic say – who is actively legitimate? That's right. Those faces have the right to initiate proceedings. The fundamental motive that we had when we submitted the amendment is how to prevent abuses, and how abuses apply. And that is -- what facts are being established? We want the procedure to be conducted in this way and with such a degree of certainty that the facts will be correct. To determine whether these persons were even born in Serbia, in which place they were born, what year and what date. You know, someone who may have been born in one part of Serbia, really born, doesn't want that fact to be found in the parent books. Someone was born in Pristina, but may want to be found to be born in Bujanovac. The question is, is that possible with only two witnesses? We don't think so. We think that a serious evidence procedure must be carried out and that the court has the right to call as many witnesses as possible and to establish and use other means of proof as it can, because it is not the same thing if so many people are returned under the Readmission Act and all express their desire to return to one place or to one part of Serbia. It is very important to understand the seriousness and importance of our amendment. It's not the essence of defining the simplest procedure we've heard here, that it's a recommendation from a series of international organisations, but to determine the fact that this person was born. First, was born in Serbia and then exactly where it was born. Someone may have an interest in determining the fact that he was born in another place, which entails a number of other consequences besides obtaining the right to citizenship, and the electoral right of a series of other rights. Therefore, counterpart Milica Radovic has submitted an amendment that narrows this possibility of abuse. counterpart Milica Vojić Markovic raised a fundamental question that justifies the submission of our amendment and which supports all our doubts. We need to determine the exact place of birth of that person, an hour and a year, not only to leave it to two witnesses, who can be friends of that person, and who can be just for that very reason of friendship and kinship interested in having that person listed elsewhere. Give a wide range of evidence procedures to prevent abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-31-0.u1530	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, August 31st, 2012, starting at 4:00 p.m. as the day for voting on all agenda points of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you. Before we start deciding on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Before we move to a decision, we will confirm our mandate to the new People's Parliament. Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been told the RIK's decision to assign a member of Parliament to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been given a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Jelini Travar Miljevic, elected from the election list of the URS - Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the decision of the RIK Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of MPs of the peoples finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Jelena Travar Miljevic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to uphold the duty of the National Envoy to carry out my dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens, Serbia, truth and justice" I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We're going back to work. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Public Note Law since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Registration, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that 127, against which there were no abstentions, did not vote five out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments to Article 2 have been submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that there were 126 votes against, there were no abstentions, no six MPs voted out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this amendment. The decision of the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the day of its publication. I remind you that an amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has been adopted to Article 2 which provides that this law enters into force on the next day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia The laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 130 votes against, there were no abstentions, no four out of 134 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Registration, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 132 against no one with abstentions voted three out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a bill amending the Law on Public Records. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AUTHORITY PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on non-parony proceedings, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: 133 votes against none, with one abstention, did not vote one out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill became amendments to the MPs: Jovan Palalić to Article 1 with corrections; Miroslav Petkovic to Article 1 with correction; Milice Vojić Markovic to Article 1 with correction and Neda Jovanovic to Article 1 with correction. I also remind you that, according to Article 164(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 164(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, on amendments that have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly does not particularly decide. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: three, against three, abstentioned one, did not vote 128, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Radmila Gerov. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that for no one, against anyone with abstention, there was no one who voted 135, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by Parliament MP Olga Batic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that three, against two, were not abstentions, voted 130, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that two, against one, were not abstentioned, did not vote 132 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for no one, against two, abstentions, voted 133, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on non-parony proceedings, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: 135 votes against none of the abstentions, of the 135 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law supplementing the law on non-partisan proceedings. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of both agenda points and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you.
