ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5293	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs and fellow MPs, I refer my question to Finance and Business Minister Mladjan Dinkic and that concerns the possibility of a tax reform being carried out in Serbia. As we know, we currently have the so-called so-called "Serb" in Serbia. the regressive tax system, according to which those who have less, or poorer, pay more, and those who have more, or richer, pay less. My question is: Is it possible to implement a fundamental tax reform in Serbia with the introduction of so-called progressive tax rates, which will be greater for those who are richer and smaller for those who are poorer? That, I'd say, is not only close to a social democratic programme, which I stand for as a representative of the SDPS, but is close to common sense. I ask this question, not wanting to be subjective, the minister we as SDPS trust. I'm curious if the introduction of such a measure might be bad for our economy, would it drive away capital, and would it choke the economy? So in asking this question and suggesting this measure, I do not want to be unilateral, but I am interested in whether the minister, when he is at the opportunity, or in writing or verbally, can give an objective analysis of this problem and in some way inform the Assembly whether one of these steps is possible. Let me conclude at the end of this question as a sociologist that today society in Serbia is divided into two major parts, on the one hand they are poor, and on the other hand they are rich. If we don't do something with fiscal policy measures, similar to what the social democratic, socialist president of Francois Holland did in France, I'm afraid that the gap between these two parts will be growing and that they, not only don't understand each other, but today-to-morrow, if we don't do something, they might also come into conflict. Let me, at the end of this question, express the position of the SDPS, that we are certainly not in a position to reintroduce communism in Serbia and to shorten anyone who is a little bit squirm, who is successful and capable, but we believe that any successful and capable man should take care of those who do not have so much strength, those who do not have the strength to fight in this society and that rich people should be held accountable and directed in an institutional way to help the poor. We think, and that's why I'm asking this question, that the progressive taxation system is one good measure to do something like that, to make one social network under which no one can fall, and on the other hand, and climbing stairs to anyone who's capable enough to do something in this society. Finally, at the very end, I would like to say that the view of the SDPS is that the burden of the crisis is evenly distributed to all citizens, not as so far as the burden of the crisis is most borne by those poor. Respecting Minister Dinkic and his work in full, we believe that as a schooled economist and a man who is currently in a position where he best sees the possibility of all economic measures can answer this question. Finally, I am concluding this issue on the possibility of introducing a progressive tax system in Serbia, so that fiscal policy measures try to bring together the rich and the poor and reduce the gap that is growing and greater in our society. Thank you for your patience and I would like to thank the Minister for his reply in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5294	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5295	I will ask the government of the Republic of Serbia one question, which according to the SPO is a key issue for Serbia's future. That's the question we insisted on getting rid of in the next 12 years. We set it up for all governments and brought our programme on Serbia's decentralisation, on the fight against the white plague. We warned of a catastrophic demographic situation, but in reality, no government has done anything about it in the last 20 years. Before asking a final question, I will present some dramatic demographic data relating to the demographic situation in Serbia. Of the 4800 rural settlements in Serbia, the youngest population in 1200 is more than 60 years old. Over the next 25 years, if nothing is done, 25% of existing villages of 4800 will disappear. The labour market now employs about 3200 agronoms and about 30,000 with a secondary agricultural school that can make a major contribution to the resuscitation of the village. We think it was the wrong decision by the Minister of Agriculture that those 1700 graduates, who played an important role in the education and preparation of our farmers for European agricultural policy, should cancel. In 2012, 2000 fewer students were champions compared to 2011. More live residents than 65 years of age than children up to 15 years of age. If this continues until 2030, we will have 700,000 inhabitants in Serbia less than in 2012. Every year in Serbia, residents disappear for a city the size of one Ruma or one Jagodina. The average age of the population is over 41 years in Serbia and we belong to the oldest European peoples. In 370 villages no child has been born in the last 10 years. We think there's really a lot of daily stories about important political, social and economic issues, and in the view of the SPO, this is the most important topic that we think is being consciously or unconsciously pushed into another plan, and we don't really see the reasons for that. That's why we think it takes urgent intervention and the country's strategy to stop this negative trend as soon as possible. All demographic data indicate that negative trends in demographics continue. That the number of children born is dropping, that the number of deaths is increasing, that the rate of natural growth is more than two decades negative, that in the last three years, the rate of rate that reduces our country's population has tripled since 1991 to 2002. The issue of the village's survival will be impossible to resolve if it waits only five to ten years, demographic experts warn. Only Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad have a positive population growth, but it is primarily just for economic migration, rather than for some other measures. First of all, it refers to the devastation of Serbia's regions, especially eastern and southeastern Serbia, but also to Shumadi, Vojvodina and southern Banat. It is an astounding increase in speed that demographically empty border regions of the state. Demographically aged municipalities in southeastern Serbia, especially in the southeast. The intensity of population growth is only present for these economic reasons in these three cities. To conclude, the SPO believes that in addition to the existing problems at KIM, we will have some new Kosovo in our Serbia, if irresponsible state policy continues in this direction. Only a strong, strong Serbia can protect not only its citizens within Serbia, but also citizens outside our Serbia's territory. We think this is a question far beyond any political party, and I expect a quick response from the government to what it will do in this direction because the time to wait is no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5296	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5297	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for some silence, not for respect for me, but for respect for women who have had breast cancer here in Serbia, and have not received adequate medical treatment. I'd like to ask a question and refer it to the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health. Namely, Serbia has 3,500 patients, newly ill annually with breast cancer. That's a very high percentage of the newly ill. It's a very high mortality rate on the annual level, which is 1,600 women a year. So, a year ago, he dies of this terrible disease. Serbia has another 30 mammographers. These are the mammographs from Japan's donation worth five million euros that are out of service. So, in addition, Serbia has a huge debt that turns the new legal proposal into a public debt because health institutions owe huge money, 13 billion dinars to wholesales. So that's all Serbia has and what Serbia doesn't have? Serbia has no responsibility for the citizens and citizens of this country. So we wonder where we can find that responsibility. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, I'm sorry, Minister of Health, and it's also very connected to the Ministry of Finance, what will he do to put these mammographs in office? Because first of all, they're not in service because there are no radiologists who could be working on them. So, no trained staff, reportedly looking for a new donation from Japan now to train radiologists and technical staff to put these mammographs into office. So it's kind of a state shame even more because if you receive one gift, and this is the way you derogate it, you expect another gift, what to say about the authority that has some ambition to become a serious authority. So, if for two years it wasn't enough to train radiologists and technicians to work on these mammograms, and to increase the number of women who were sick yearly and to grow mortality from this severe disease, when does the health ministry think they're taking concrete steps? How does he plan to train radiologists? When he thinks he's gonna do whatever it takes to complete their training? What deadline does the last mammographer require to be put into office? You know, I'd like to ask you a question and if someone will answer in two years of delay in using a very human and beautiful gift from a foreign country. We have opportunities to seek responsibility, given that the Ministry of Health has held, among other things, this party that currently has a minister of finance over the past eight years. So half of the current government is made up of ministers who have also worked in the previous government. Thus, space for finding responsibility could be found and it would really be useful to find that space and finally make it clear who is responsible because two years of not using such necessary mammographs for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Serbia, and above all for those women who have breast cancer. So it's a very specific question and I'm really looking for an answer to finally say when you think you're finishing the mammogram procedure we already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5298	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is about what Mr. Chikiriz and Mrs. Popovic were talking about. I'm giving my question to the prime minister. In his exposé here, the prime minister told us that one of the first tasks the government will take will be to deal with the white plague and the biological disappearance of the population. Also, I have to say again what was said here last Thursday at this part of the session. It is said that, unfortunately, the third tender for the inclusion of private institutions in the out-of-body fertilisation project on the cost of the state has failed. The main question is whether the RFO has given up its tender twice over a very short period of only a few months, or whether the tender has failed because of the lack of administrative nature. It is simply amazing to me that a special hospital for the treatment of the sterilities of our famous geneticist Mr Stojkovic would be able to falsify deliberate errors by filling out documentation so as not to come to the list of hospitals carrying out artificial insemination on the cost of the state. But, of course, we don't have an answer to this question, but there's no doubt in any case about that argument that RFO gave. It is clear only one thing that time is going on tirelessly and that the possibilities for those who have long waited for artificial insemination are less and less. Of course, this news has been the most disappointing to those couples who are today awaiting artificial insemination, who are now more than 500, but it certainly has disappointed those citizens who are very aware of the dangers that Serbia, or the nation today, is at stake, and this is a major demographic danger. What's this about? In a literal sense, Serbia is dying demographically today. How else do you call processes that say that every year 30,000 people die more than they are born? When cities the size of Paracina disappear for only a year, and in 10 years, the city of the size of Novi Sad disappears. Just imagine the number of inhabitants this is all about. How else to call it, if schools sound empty to us, not only in rural areas, they unfortunately began to sound empty in the central Belgrade municipalities. How else to call it, when every fourth village is shut down, and when an average Serb entered the fifth decade of life, and in the fifth decade of life, unfortunately, it is no longer born. The fact is that our nation is extremely old, and our cemetery is unfortunately younger and younger. The basic question is, what is the state doing right now? Can he in any way ignore reality? Is it taking any kind of measure, and is there any problem today that prevents us from understanding and learning, that one day, in a demographic sense of the word, in a time stream that is very short, we will no longer be? We as a serious political party, of course, are also offering assistance to the government on this solution, we are offering help with the availability of our party's demographic reconstruction programme, as a starting point for concrete measures. We're doing it because we've done our demographic reconstruction program, because it's good and it offers concrete solutions, which at this point wouldn't cost the country much. Do we ask a lot if we say that the amount of parental allowance is increased and that it is paid once, not just for the birth of the first child, but for the birth of every child in this country? I will remind myself, four children per family should be born in the state of Serbia, in order for our natural growth to be positive. Are we asking a lot when we say that we need to set up a population reconstruction fund, which would be financed by focusing on each financial transaction, one dinar on this particular purpose? It's small steps, but let's start with something. Anyway, much better than not doing anything like this today. At the very end, I, of course, appeal to the government to make this one aware, at least as aware as she was at the moment she wrote the exposés. I ask the question, what concrete measures will you take, both the government and the prime minister, to finally stop the process of dying of the state, so that the nation will be rejuvenated, and how, of course, would Serbia start to give birth? I'll remind you, when we're gone, there's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5300	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5301	Dear Chairman, I would like to ask the President of the Republic Government and the entire Republic Government about the new situation, where the Republic Government has not agreed on flood defence operations and regular maintenance for territory under Sava and Danube. Since June, the financing of the Republic government, flood defence and regular maintenance jobs has ceased, and this has questioned the security of people and property. Flood defense facilities are on their own and some of them are collapsing. The deposit guards, who had the role of control of the water supply, the alarm and the notification in the event of large waters, were withdrawn from the dikes below Sava and Danube, because there is no contract to carry out those operations, or are no longer authorised to carry out these operations. I remind the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, and I remind the Republic government that two years ago we had a disaster in the woodland, that we had a flood disaster in the Alexine area, and then that flood damage was enormous. I ask you, I ask the Republic Government, what is it you need to spare money for this part of Serbia? I know this Republic government doesn't take care of Nis, doesn't take care of Leskovec, Vranje, not to take care of southeast Serbia. She asked for votes on this territory, and now she does not care about this poorest part of Serbia. Are you ready to flood us and make the citizens of this territory of Serbia disappear, just because you're not taking us to southeastern Serbia? I remind you that the first rain will cause the floods and then we will watch Mr. Marić from television, who will say – so if we had ever invested the funds there, it would have been better. My dears, these canals, these miserys are abandoned, there is no adequate defense. People's lives are at stake and I'm calling you, this isn't politics, this is a battle policy for life. I warn you that when there's a problem, then we'll all be talking fairy tales here, and when you need to separate the money, then for southeastern Serbia you don't have any money. The second question is, the same to the Republic Government, Prime Minister, related to Nis Airport – is it possible that our national air carrier cannot use another airport the size of Nis? Is it possible that some other companies are flying from Nis and our JAT can't fly from Nis? I would like to inform you that the city of Nis is decentralising a million euros per year for subsidies to foreign companies, so I ask if there is a possibility that the Republic government, because its mouth is full of decentralisation, would introduce two days of JAT flight from Nis, so Nis, the citizens of Nis, the citizens of Southeastern Serbia, would save these millions of dinars and invest them in something more necessary for citizens? I'd like to inform you that the poorest citizens do not fly from Nis. They have no living, so I ask you, is there any possibility that JAT will fly from Nis? Although we already need to subsidise from the city budget, by separating from our citizens, we need to focus at least on JAT. If JAT doesn't want to fly market, then it's better to finance our national company than to finance the Montenegro Airlines, which flies with subsidies and a million dinars from Serbia, along with Montenegro into someone's second budget. That is one question that is very current in the southeast and I ask the minister, the Prime Minister, who is from Zitoraja, who is in southern Serbia, to pay attention to this problem as well. I'll finish the third initiative. As chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I support my LDP colleague. We're looking for responsibility for the arrogant directors, the arrogant representatives of the Ministry of Health, who made a public debt. I don't agree with Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who, on the other hand, is making accusations that someone else has made that debt. We ask Mr. Vukic not to pursue selective justice, but to examine all malversions in the health system from 2000 to 2012. The biggest corruption in health care is major corruption associated with the Ministry of Health, linked to large pharmaceutical houses, linked to the directors of clinical centres. The Democratic Party is asking you not to exercise selective justice, but rather to comb through the coalition partners' ministries a little bit and see which criminals you really are. As for the mammographer, I'm going to tell you that I'm going to launch an initiative with Mr. DeJere, to question... (President: Time. ) Allow me a few seconds to examine EU investments in the health system, from 2000 to 2012 I will invite Mr DeJere to this meeting in the Assembly, and I call on the Republic Government to prepare all donations from 2000 to 2012 in medical equipment and finance, as I am sure there have been many abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5302	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, my question will be addressed, we can tell the two most responsible people of this government, meaning to the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic and the Vice President, Mr Vukic, and of course it is about fighting corruption. In fact, it is evident that already everyone sees it, began seriously, unlike some previous times, when the arrest of a small-time drug dealer in a sea village, called fighting crime and corruption, which of course was not true, could have been called fighting crime, corruption, in any case not corruption, because the previous government had not fought for one second, which shows statistics, whether ours, whether European, or global, on how Serbia was quoted at that time and in which positions it was. Today at least there is political will, which is also evident from all and those who are in government, and at least declaratively, for the time being, and from those who are in opposition, although we can declare that we can hear anything as little as before, to ask the question of not being cleaned channels, whether there will be floods in the south, and that until a few months ago someone else, who is now asking the question, was power and should be cleaning these channels. We will see whether it stays on the declaration or whether political factors in the country will assist in the fight against corruption. It is clear in these first moves that Serbia is unprepared, institutional for the most serious fight against corruption. Which means that those who had previously been in power did not make the necessary institutions, and we must as a parliament make every effort to do so, we must help the state create as much serious institutions and control services as possible, as well as new services, reorganised security services, police, military, courts. Citizens themselves need to do much to make this fight against corruption even more serious and effective. I appeal to all of us here to devote ourselves to this business in the future. The fact is, for now, it is evident that some banks, the Agrobank case, are under investigation, hopefully the Vojvodina Development Bank case, etc. When we talk about a new law on public procurement, then I will try to show, for example, how and in what cases there have been violations. Some say that 400m euros a year disappears, some like Mr. Deger, that 800m euros per year in public procurement disappeared in Serbia. I'll give you one example. Construction of the Iron Bridge in Novi Sad, how many years ago was this tender, the Ash wasn't buried, the works are gone. But we'll also talk about it when it comes to the public procurement story. What interests me most is the question at this point, unfortunately I have not been able to notice, although it is said that teams have been made, but they urgently need results, primarily because of Serbia's integrity and because of investors who are Serbia and what is needed, it is 24 privatisations that both the EU and we know all about. I was talking about the privatisation of Sartide back in 2003 and I was saying how badly this privatisation was done. We now have as the biggest economic problem of the state of Smederjevska Jelizar, which we must address immediately. It was estimated at $470m, and in 2003 it was sold for 23 plus five million, which was supposed to be given to local self-government in Smedereva and never received that five million dollars. I'm interested in when will there be concrete results in the Sartida investigation and the other 23 privatisations? When are we going to hear that some criminal charges against those responsible for this great thieving in the state of Serbia have taken place in those times, but also for the great damage done by Serbia's economy? Today we pay the price of it, and in order to regain the impact and integrity of us as states, we have to resolve this in order to attract new investors, serious investors who will know that their capital in Serbia is safe. The question for Mr. Vukic and Dacic is when will the results of the fight against corruption be visible on these 24 privatisations? When are we gonna first hear something serious going on here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5304	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Nebojsa Stefanovic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Zoran Radovanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular on the 2nd item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the proposer: Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Prof. Dr. Žarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister of Health, called for the meeting to attend and – Istvan Pastor, President of the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, Zoran Radoman, member of the Regional Government and Regional Secretary of Finance, Ljubica Matic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance of the Ministry of Finance and Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance and Minister of the Ministry of Finance. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2013. One year with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security for 2013. This appropriation is intended to cover: One year, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Fund for Social Security of Military Security for 2013. THE YEAR AND PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON CONSOLIDATION ON THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE NATIONAL JOBING SERVICE FOR 2013. Mr. Miodrag Stojković, Miroljub Stojčić, Gorica Mojović, Saša Dujović, Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Branka Karavidić, Mira Petrovic, Teodora Vlahović, Dr. Janko Vješinović, Radoslav Milovanovic, Mirko Čikiriz, Ivan Jovanović, Srdjan Miković, Siniša Lazić, Olgica Batić, Enis Imamović, Bajro Gegić, Prof. Dr. Dušan Milisavljević, Boris Stefanović, Vera Paunović, Dejan Mihajlov, Dr. Ružica Igić, Bažan Božan Pastor, Valić. Nenad Popović, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Jovan Palalić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Gorica Gajic, Petar Petrovic, Sandra Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudić, Radojko Obradović, Dusica Morčević, Marko Jakšić, Dr Slobodan Samardžić, Siniša Kovacevic, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Goran Bogdanović, Miljenko Dereta, Ranka Savik, Riza Halimi, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Nenadstatović, and Đorđe Milić, as well as the Government, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and control of public funds. By written amendment, the Government withdrew to Article 7 which delivered Act No 400-8101/12 from 16 November 2012 and MPs: Mira Petrovic to Article 7 of Section 29, which submitted on 21 November 2012, Olgica Batić to Article 7 of Section 25, which submitted on 22 November 2012 and Ranka Savic to Amendment II to Article 7 which was submitted on 22 November 2012. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Zoran Radoman.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5305	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I have the honour to address you on behalf of the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina with the desire to make it possible, through amendments to the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a certain part of the financial autonomy of the AP Vojvodina. Today we won't talk about what 7% is and what counts. We'll talk about the quality of those funds that make up 7%. At its 7th session on 20 November 2012, the AP Vojvodina Assembly laid down amendments to the proposed law. The aim is to provide the AP Vojvodina budget with a provision of Article 184(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a minimum budget of 7% of the republican budget, or to allow the implementation of the constitutional requirement that the AP Vojvodina's 3/7 budget be used to finance capital expenditures. Amendment proposed to amend Article 1. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic is the only consequence of the proposed amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a bill seeking the proposed revenue structure of the AP Vojvodina budget in 2013. Instead of 32 billion dinars of transfer funds from the Republic's budget, we ask for 43% of the proceeds of excise duties charged on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In order to ensure the necessary resources, this amendment proposes an amendment to Article 1. The draft law by reducing in the table part under a) revenue and income accounts, expenditure on total income and income, as well as total expenditure and expenditure by 32 billion dinars, while retaining a fixed deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5306	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5307	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM in the budget debate said that we would support this draft budget only if the amendments coming to us from the AP Vojvodina Assembly were adopted. We've got the government's opinion. Surprisingly or not, the government rejects all three proposed amendments. I really don't want to go into another discussion about 7% of what, because that's what we talked about when the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly here explained exactly one week ago the proposed amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, but I must stress that the simple constitution must be respected. If the Constitution states in Article 174 that 7% of the budget belongs to the AP Vojvodina and, what may be less said, that three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budgets go to capital investments, then you simply have these amendments, Mr. Minister, to accept. We have three amendments here. The one we're currently discussing is about Article 1 and maybe he's so complicated and grotesque, because there are tables, but we heard the essence from the promoter. It is essential that the AP Vojvodina Assembly does not want this to increase the budget, to change something drastically, we just want to respect the Constitution and 7% and three weeks for capital investment, and that is only possible for proposed changes that are to reduce the total income and income of 32 billion, as well as total expenditure and expenditure. So it's proposed to actually reduce the total income due to the proposed 43% excise duty, so on. internal excise duties, which would belong to the province, to reduce here 15 billion excise duties on oil derivatives, 15 billion excise duties on tobacco processing and two billion other excise duties. It is also proposed to cut by 28 billion current expenditures and four capital expenditures. Why? Because this proposal stresses that the revenues of the provinces are also the transfers from the Republic budget, which are mostly intended to finance the competences of the Republic in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and as dedicated transfers to finance expenditure mainly for employees in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but also for non-purpose transfers of units of local self-government, which is really unclear why all this is being collected and then our and your mathematics, Mr. Minister, is slightly different. If we were to add all of this together, then it would mean that only transfers account for over 66% of the total budget funds, which simply makes it impossible to respect the constitutional guarantee that three weeks goes for capital investments. So, the proposal of the AP Vojvodina Assembly is that instead of the transfer funds to education institutions, other than high, dedicated and non-intentional transfers to local self-government units, according to which the province has no legal obligations and it is unclear why we add all this up to 32 billion dinars, the province is subject to 43% of the excise income. In the follow-up of the debate with the other amendments, I will take active part. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians will support these amendments in voting day. It's interesting that we talked about most colleagues coming from the territory of the AP Vojvodina should support this, and it's not clear why. We should all, because it's the Constitution and this is the highest legislative home and we should all respect the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5308	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5309	The government did not accept any of the province's amendments because the proposal actually calls for an increase in the budget deficit next year by more than 30 billion dinars. That's the first reason. The second reason is that both the Government and the Assembly are called on to divide consumption taxes according to the territorial principle, which is not done in any country, because the excise duty is a tax on consumption and if the excise duty is a tax asset, which is burdened by consumers, rather than by producers, because the burden is transferred from producers to consumers. If an excise product is produced in any territory, for example in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it does not mean that it is spent on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It's the simplest case. The Senta tobacco industry produces cigarettes that are not only smokers of the AP Vojvodina, but whole Serbia. A good part of it is being exported. The same goes for oil derivatives. So the place of production and consumption is not the same, and these are the taxes on consumption. If we look at the way in which regions are financed in European countries, they are never used as a means of financing the region, but, for example, a tax on profits, such as for us for the Region or for profit tax, or some specific regional taxes, which the provinces themselves, regions can introduce. Why? Just because consumption taxes can't be located exactly where they come from. As a result, both VAT and excise duties are not suitable as a source of funding for the region. What the AP Vojvodina suggests and what you were talking about is that the cost of funding basic, secondary and higher education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is transferred to the Republic, and that the province gets an additional 30 billion dinars after all these funds, the consumption tax is essentially financed by education, schools, secondary and primary education in the Vojvodina territory, transfers that go through the province budget. By the way, the MPs may have forgotten it, and even I didn't have it in mind, this kind of transfer and funding method of the province was introduced at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic in 2003, when the finance minister was Bozidar Djelic, when the Assembly introduced the principle that funding for employees in basic, medium and high education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina was essentially done by giving transfers that, through the province budget, go to municipalities. So, before this latest constitution was passed, this principle was established and implemented back nine years. Each year it was conducted this way, starting with the government of Zoran Djindjic, through the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and now also to the Government of Ivica Dacic. So it's exactly the same methodology and it's always been applied from 2003 to today to this way of funding transfers for high, secondary and primary education. Of course, it's always possible to change something, but it needs to be given a valid reason why. The reason that the province states in its reasoning is not correct, because the estimated expenditure on financing of the province is in line with the Constitution, above 7%. They account for 8.7% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia, defined by the budget system law. So that's what I was talking about. According to the current budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will soon be voted on, 75.5 billion dinars for expenditures on Vojvodina territory are envisioned, according to the same methodology used years ago, without changing methodology. This is about 15 billion dinars higher than the original budget since last year, so the increase in the allocation for Vojvodina is 15 billion in the 2013 budget than was foreseen by the original 2012 budget. By the way, I don't see any reason for this amendment. Once again, consumption taxes, therefore, excise duties, are not tax forms that can be divided by territoriality, because the place of production and consumption does not in most cases coincide. This is the first thing, and neither is it a practice in other countries that have regions, which finance regions, nor is our plan that when we do the law on financing regions, we put excise revenues as regional income, but it will remain the income of the central state in every variant, because it is the same in other countries. Today, however, almost 100% of the income tax remains in Vojvodina, which is not the case with any other region that is not formalised in Serbia, as the municipalities in Vojvodina receive 80%, while the province's administration is still 18%. So 98% of the earnings tax on AP Vojvodina territory remains in Vojvodina, which is not the case in southern Serbia, which is not the case in western Serbia, Belgrade, which is nowhere else. So, most of all, i.e. 100% of the income tax remains in Vojvodina today, and 43% of the profit tax in the province's territory remains in the province, which is neither in southern Serbia nor in Belgrade, nor in the west, nor anywhere else. We think that in the Law on the financing of the Vojvodina, we need to specify what the original revenues of the Vojvodina are. It should be possible that if the circuit assembly so decides, some other rural revenues can be set up to finance regional needs and regional projects. I personally believe that such a right should be given to both Serbia and all other regions in Serbia. I repeat once again, I reject the amendment because excise duties are not funds that should be regional income or rural income. Secondly, we reject it because the core deficit would have been increased by 30 billion. Finally, we think that if the methodology for calculating transfers for education in Vojvodina, which has already been established since 2003, since the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, should lead to a wider public debate, agree with the education unions, with everyone, to see what is achieved, how to continue to finance it and what are the competencies. That would mean further centralization of this system. In any case, these were the basic reasons why the government refused all three provinces, and yet, by our budget law, we provided more than the Constitution guaranteed 7% for the financing of Vojvodina. Exactly, that's 8.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5310	Thank you. Mr. Radoman, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5311	If the provisions of the Constitution are not sufficient reason to accept such amendments, then I do not know what is the reason for accepting the amendments. Whether the financing costs are, it is said – to transfer to the Republic the cost of financing basic and secondary education, etc. Well, that's a legal obligation. If we look at the laws governing primary and secondary education, it can be seen that it is the obligation of the Republic to provide funds for it. Can excises from the Vojvodina territory be entered into the province's budget by 43%? Of course I can, there's no ban on it. It may be that 75 billion will be spent on Vojvodina territory, but that doesn't mean it's the province's budget. We are talking here about the budget of the province, the amount of the budget, that is, in this case, the quality of the funds and who will have the funds. That's why I think these grounds for refusing the amendment are unfounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5312	Thank you. Mrs. Kovac, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5313	I thank you for your reply, Mr. Secretary. It is very commendable that you are one of the very active ministers who participates in the debate. But you had in your exhibit, I hope, one lapus. Let's not mix frogs and grandmothers. You can't talk about funding all the regions. I know you're one of the biggest regionalists. But in the Constitution, the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is guaranteed to finance the AP of Vojvodina, only that, not the other regions. We're asking to respect not only 7%. Let's talk a little bit about the structure of that 7%, three weeks. I'm not getting into whether there's eight or... Let's talk about structure. On the other hand, you mentioned the Regional Finance Act. So this is where the task force is mentioned. We still don't know what she looks like, when she's going to form, when she's going to start working seriously, but in financing the AP Vojvodina, we're also aware that it's missing. It is true that since 2003, since the government of Mr Djindjic, transfers to school salaries have also been accounted for. But it was then suggested that the founding rights of primary schools would also be assumed, but the founder of these primary schools remains a republican government, which is a problem, which is unforgettable. But no one writes that transfers to local self-government units should also be added together. It was done during the previous government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. Your client supported it. Our party was against it. Some are regionalists, some defend the interests of the AP Vojvodina always, some sometimes, just in the campaign. Let's not let Vojvodina be a flow water heater. When we talk about structure, tax revenues are 18.8 billion. It's a minimum...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5314	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5315	Since I can't use time, I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5316	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5317	Just to repeat once again that the Republic government has fully respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it has defined 8.7% of the total expenditure for the province of Vojvodina, and the minimum is 7%.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5318	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear gentlemen of the province, on behalf of the city from which I come, on behalf of Sombora, I will not be engaged in high mathematics, we in Somboro have only one problem. Looking at and listening to this whole debate, I carefully sent out what Mr. Minister said and what was positive for me in this whole story and outwitting between the province and the Republic. I've always been an advocate of not needing two governments. We in Vojvodina, i.e. in Sombor, are both Novi Sad and Belgrade equal in one thing – they are very remote compared to Sombor. For us Sombor is the center of the world. Apropo that, with yesterday, the Capital Investment Fund of my city has remained in debt from the previous 135 million for the jobs done in the city, which can be seen, which serve us proudly, so I'm interested in when we in Somboro will see that money, because it's what the performers are waiting for, and that's something that's already been done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5320	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5321	I mean, actually, I'm pretty sure Mr. Vesenovic called before me, but because we checked in and checked out a few times...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5322	I think you called before Mr. Veselinović. I followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5323	It doesn't matter. Thank you, Madam Vice President. We, as a parliamentary group, have submitted another amendment. The reasons for the refusal are said to be the same as for the amendment submitted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. The amendment is very similar, so within this amendment I will talk about both. Mr Dinkic, in his explanation for the rejection of this amendment, said several things that are not true. First, he said the proposed amendment to the Vojvodina Assembly would increase the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget by 32 billion dinars. That is not true, since both the Vojvodina and LSV Assembly have provided for their amendments where 32 billion dinar funds can be saved. So, if we're already speaking based on some facts, the amendment, I'd like to ask you to say everything in those amendments. Mr Dinkic said in a series of insults, which he made during a debate Monday or Tuesday at the expense of MPs, that some of the lawmakers from Vojvodina had not read the budget. Here, I'm an MP from Vojvodina. I read the budget very carefully. What I've missed is, of those assets that you claim to go to the AP Vojvodina budget, how much are the transfer funds, and what are the percentages of the funds that can be used for capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? I'm talking about the province's budget, not what is being provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the AP Vojvodina. The argument that since the government of Zoran Djindjic has been introduced that some transfer funds are considered the AP Vojvodina budget is correct, and that's something we've been up against. For years we have been speaking against it, but you, Mr Dinkic, are regionalists, there are wonderful opportunities for you to correct the injustice that seems to be the only region in the Republic of Serbia. Would you like other regions to have that? Yeah. Are there other regions in the Republic of Serbia? No, I don't. That is why I only ask that what exists as a commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the AP Vojvodina budget be respected. If this is not the case, of course you should expect a request for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the 2013 budget, given that, if the structure of these famous 8.5% that you claim exist, although it is not 8.5% of the budget but 8.5% of the tax revenues, it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to that same logic, you could count the salaries of employees of the MUP, who work in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that they belonged to the budget of the AP Vojvodina, although Vojvodina has no jurisdiction over these spheres. You said that in the regulated countries, the revenues from the actions don't belong to the regions. Also, in regulated countries, you know what 7% is. In the regulated countries and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no such nonsense against which LSV has always been, as it was clear from the very beginning that this will be very difficult to respect and that any government, in accordance with some political definitions in the government, can interpret that provision any way it pleases. You, as one regionalist, were very wrong about the AP Vojvodina. I expect to adopt these amendments, accept that you have made a mistake and correct that mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5324	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5325	They reiterate that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the new government of the Republic of Serbia, has provided 15 billion dinars more for Vojvodina than it has provided the previous government in the budget for the past year. As far as your question is concerned, based on the profit tax passed on to the province of Vojvodina and the salary tax, as well as those two sources, it will only give about 18.1 billion dinars, which makes up 25% of the total budget. It is available to the province on its own. 20 per cent for capital investment is foreseen, and the transfers remain 55%. I must say, for capital investments in the budget of the previous government, only 10% of the original 2012 budget was provided. So, twice as much we've provided for capital investments. As for the legitimate right of the province to appeal to the Constitutional Court, the only question is – why has this lawsuit not been filed in previous years, since this budget is far more quality and better for the province of Vojvodina than it was before, when the minister of finance and the prime minister was, essentially, the party who is now leading the province government? So, clearly, it's about pure politics. Because when it comes to economics, Vojvodina gets 15 billion dinars more than it did a year ago, i.e. it gets 8.7% of the total budget, defined by the Budget System Act. Even the structure of the funds is more favourable, because it doubles the capital investment. I know the basic question is actually a question of dissatisfaction with the quality of spending the previous funds in the province, but that's a question for another debate. The question is, why, in the previous period, were as many as nine billion dinars of the funds that the Republic had identified given to the capitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank? Or how has the Fund for Capital Investment been spent? Maybe the people of Vojvodina aren't happy about it, and I'm not happy about it, and I need to see it. The efficiency of using money is one story, and the other is the total amount to be defined. The total amount is in line with the budget, it's bigger, it's more quality, and that's why we rejected the Ukraine's amendments. Otherwise, it is clear that your amendment has ordered that 30 billion expenditures be taken down from the Republic, but in this way you would increase the deficit, because you had objections that expenditures were unreally planned. If another 30 reduction, and you already said they were unrealistic plans, it would only deepen the budget deficit for an additional 30 billion dinar, destabilizing Serbia's complete financial system. That is why we have rejected both your amendment and the Republic of Vojvodina's amendment, because we want to reverse public finance policy, to ensure stability, so that this is the basis for the country's economic recovery.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5326	Thank you. Replica, Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5327	I thank you, Madam Vice President. We have very carefully chosen places where 32 billion dinar savings can be made, so that there is no increase in deficits in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The fact that expenditures are unrealistically planned has nothing to do with the amendment where we proposed that funds be saved in places that would not lead to such capital earthquakes in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The cost structure, where we propose a reduction, is not something that would question the functioning of the state as such. Unlike the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina adopts each year a final account and a report on the spending of funds, it also adopted the final account of the Capital Investment Fund. The Capital Investment Fund spends as much money as it gets from the Republic of Serbia. The Capital Investment Fund owes as much as the Republic of Serbia owes it. I think we've talked about Vojvodina Development Bank so many times. The right of the AP Vojvodina is to try to preserve citizens' deposits in the only way the Republic allows it. We'll talk about that, of course, when it comes to the scandalous DSS amendment you've accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5328	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5329	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the honourable representatives of the AP Vojvodina, I would not be able to begin the debate without looking back at the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure that we have, which is now in force, as regards the amendment and the way of the debate at all. Of course, until the beginning of the principle debate, until when it was possible to submit the amendments, we had the situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had submitted amendments and essentially changed the basic text of the budget, both on the revenue and expenditure sides, and in the end we had one new budget that we no longer had the opportunity to make amendments. That's how you broke the Rules of Procedure, and that's how the government trampled everything she said, that she put the budget in a certain time, in a legal procedure and in a debate. She didn't put it up until the moment she filed the last amendment, and these amendments essentially changed the budget content. On the other hand, it seems to me that today's debate will also turn into a situation where MPs who explain the amendments, having two minutes at their disposal, as well as representatives of the province's administration, i.e. the government, have two minutes, and that Minister Dinkic, as so far, is giving cassatrous speeches, which, sometimes, are multi-hourary and that we will not actually be able to be equal in this assembly. Not to talk about insulting these days that we've had by Mr Dinkic. When it comes to this amendment submitted by the government of the AP Vojvodina, or the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, this is not about whether the RS government will accept this amendment, or these three amendments, but about whether the RS government and the RS National Assembly will respect the RS Constitution, because the RS Constitution says that Vojvodina belongs to 7% of the budget. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already violated the Constitution through amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System in this term, questioned the constitutionality and the Law on the Budgetary System, but now through the RS budget in a part where 7% of the RS budget is not provided as the AP Vojvodina budget makes it impossible for the AP Vojvodina to bring to the Constitution a based budget of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, if the AP Vojvodina, given the parameters given in the RS budget, adopted the budget, would call into question the constitutionality of the budget. Why? Because the AP Vojvodina budget should have at least three weeks of funding provided for capital investments. Based on this budget, which was provided by the RS government, which proposed to the RS Assembly, the government of the AP Vojvodina, or the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, cannot provide a constitutional budget and in this sense, the AP Vojvodina from the New Year could be on temporary funding. This is practically the only option and the only way out of the situation in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has brought it, respecting the Budgetary System Act, which will remain in force since changes have not been accepted through the draft budget, the draft budget system law submitted by the AP Vojvodina, will bring Vojvodina in which you have not received a satisfactory number of votes in the position of temporary financing. But the Constitutional Court will also have to give a final word on this issue because a constitutional dispute will also be launched on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5330	I'll delete the list, as Minister Dinkic wants a word. He answered again. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5331	I don't know. Maybe you would, but I'm the RS finance minister, not my own party. I work for the Republic of Serbia. I represent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why we've provided much better financial conditions for Vojvodina than it was in the days of the previous government. I repeat once again, 15 billion dinars more. I really don't see any reason to dramatize the situation and mention some temporary funding. There are 18 billion dinars left only from the profit tax of Vojvodina and from the salary tax, without those revenues from local self-government. The only question I didn't understand in your predecessor's speech is – why would the Capital Investment Fund depend solely on RS donations? Why does Vojvodina's budget, which last year was about 15 billion, and this year 18 billion from the profit tax, why not single out at least a billion for the Capital Investment Fund? Who's stopping the AP Vojvodina from doing that? Then why are you spending that money? A clerk's salary? To hire a party administration or something? I think we should all encourage the province to give as much money as it can and at its own disposal for capital investments, not to wait for only the Republic to add that money. Of course, the Republic should help, as we have determined here 20% of the total capital investment budget, but that does not prevent the province of Vojvodina from defining at least a billion, two for capital investments. This will certainly benefit the citizens of Vojvodina more than perhaps the employment of the administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5332	Thank you. Before we continue, and in accordance with what you said to Mr. Veselinovic, I would read the provisions of Article 158, paragraph 7, so that I would also ask the minister to listen – the legislator, or authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot last longer than three hours. So the time of the Minister's presentation, or the legislator, is limited, so I'm asking you to take care of that as well. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic. I'll delete the list again. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5333	No, first I wanted to talk to you about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and since I can't sign up, because every time you give a word to someone you reset the entire list and we don't have a chance to apply regularly, so please, something in the system is wrong. I want to speak for the replica minister. So, when it comes to the situation with the AP Vojvodina budget, that's where I think it's all clear. By amending the Budgetary System Act, you have reduced the constitutional basis by 7%. Instead of the constitutional category of the RS budget, it is now the basis of tax revenues. There's nothing controversial about it. However, the figures are also undeniable. The revenues of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 were 829 billion 596 million. For 2013, it was planned at 965 billion 700 million, which is 15% higher. The budget of the AP Vojvodina in 2012 was 62 billion, and for 2013 by these proportions would be 58 billion, which is 7% less. The numbers are undeniable. On the other hand, I even think the minister has taken advantage of his time under this amendment and there is no need to consult for additional time. There's nothing questionable about that. Whether we respect the Constitution or not, it's a dispute. By disrespecting the constitution, I repeat, the province will come into an unconstitutional position, i.e. it will have to be temporarily financed, meaning the suspension of all investments, the reconciliation of commitments from the previous period and a very ungrateful situation of political and political and economic problems brought about by the RS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5334	Who wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (National Ambassador Bojan Đuric, from the post: I cannot sign up. You can, after I deleted the list. We've got a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5335	Injury of Article 27. You know what this is about. We can't have a debate like this. I signed up three times in a row. I've been waiting almost half an hour. (Chairman: Mr. Djuric, let me explain. There have been other MPs before you. I'm taking care of it. I can't even sign up. That's what this is about. (President: You can. You got your word. I got word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Before that, I couldn't sign up. Please do something with the system, otherwise this debate is completely non-serious. Not all political parties can participate in the debate. I see the minister has no problem reporting. I'm not insinuating anything, I'm just saying, let's get this debate real and see what kind of problem we have with the system. You said it yourself before I started saying that we obviously have a problem. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5336	Thank you. The problem is, I have a full list of speakers at all times. We're keeping an eye on the applicants here, so in that order and calling the candidates to talk. Minister Dinkic as a proposing representative takes precedence over others. I'm looking to respect some order established by the Rules of Procedure. Next reported is MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5337	I waited patiently. I called first. Just now, a colleague advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure without telling who was a member. He was talking about the amendment. What I'm saying is that those of us who fought for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, we didn't fight for this kind of amendment. I'll explain why. We were here to witness, when the debate was in principle, that the amendment was almost unambiguous because the first year of Vojvodina calculated its revenue based on the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Based on this formula, the revenues of the Vojvodina were established. Now that the budget is no longer in surplus, but when it is in deficit, the province's leadership requires 7% of the expenditure. So there are double standards with them. In this amendment of theirs, I'm amazed where they want to take the money. So, while the same coalition was in power in Belgrade and Novi Sad, they did not mind that Vojvodina was denied for money from its own coalition. As long as they were on one register and on another, they had nothing to do with it. I'm amazed for the next reason. By reading the amendment to the AP Vojvodina, in part of the subsidies, I see they've been reduced from 91 to 64 billion. So, somewhere for about 30 billion. The subsidies were reduced by 27 billion. Of which, subsidies in agriculture have been reduced from 41 billion to 29 billion and 802 million. So nearly 12 billion were asked by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina to remove itself from agriculture and transfer to the AP Vojvodina budget. I don't think this is about the AP Vojvodina budget, but it's about the government's budget, which is politically available to these funds by dividing the Dukes into similar and unsuitable. I can't believe someone in Vojvodina decided to take 12 billion from the subsidies for agriculture, which was translated into the distribution of these subsidies nine billion would have gone to Vojvodina. Someone in this way wanted the money that farmers in Vojvodina would get transferred to the government of Vojvodina. We who, for many years, have fought for the increased jurisdiction of Vojvodina, have not fought to replace Belgrade with a new sedation, certainly have not fought that the funds arising from Vojvodina's jurisdiction go to political purposes to try once again to re-establish power in Vojvodina. I can't believe someone in such a bold way tried to transfer money from the farmer's pockets to money for the AP Vojvodina budget, and we've already seen it being spent from the Duke's capital fund. They're mostly spent in those parts where they get good results. I personally saw, just four years ago, that the fund was printed with some pre-election brochures and even bras with the markings of a European Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5338	Thank you. Just to let you know, since I only have five places to log in on my screen, that I will read you the order of MPs... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. Hold on. I'll just read the order, if that's okay with you. You asked for the replica, Miss Jerkov, and Mr. Radoman. You have the first right to a replica. The order is this: Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Borislav Stefanovic, Ana Novkovic and Elvira Kovac Here you go. [[Elvira Kovac, from the site: I have been waiting 45 minutes for the replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5339	Your Honored Chairman, you have injured Article 105(2). The MP speaks from the MP's seat in the Assembly's session room upon receipt of the words. I just can't get the word. When I finished my presentation, Mr. Secretary answered me. I was entitled to a replica. He answered me again. It's been 45 minutes since then. This unit doesn't work for me. I've been denied the right, as a People's Messenger. I keep calling, you hang up, there's a new list again. I don't understand how I'm the last one again. You simply have to make sure that every member of Parliament takes their stand, especially when Mr. Minister, after each of us, can talk for a few minutes, which is good. Why can't we answer that? So I have to wait again, who knows how long to get my turn. I keep pushing the unit, and you're ignoring me. Not to talk about raising the Rules of Procedure in the last 20 minutes. The left side has been ignored. The gentleman spoke. No one sees the Rules of Procedure. We can't sign up electronically. It's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5340	Thank you. Do you want the right to a replica now that you haven't been in the system? Not because I don't want to, but because you weren't on the screen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5341	Thank you. Dear Minister, 45 minutes ago, I tried to answer what you claim to have respected the Constitution of a guaranteed 7%. It's interesting that no one talks about structure. Let's just talk about the amended Budgetary System Act and just talk about tax revenues that are 18.8 billion. If we're talking about 7%, it's 57.3 billion. We forget three weeks that have to be secured for capital investments, which would be 24.6 billion dinars for capital investments. In one of your previous exhibitions, you also mentioned your own real revenues from the province's budget, which were 15 billion. So they're estimated at 15 billion. Let's say it's 18 billion from the profit tax, as well as from the corporate income tax. From 18 billion to 24.6 billion, certain funds are missing. With free mathematics, we can calculate that it's almost a dozen billion. It is unclear how the AP Vojvodina to secure this amount of missing capital investment funds in order to respect the Constitution if it does not have the right to own revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5342	Thank you. Mr. Radoman has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5343	Of course, the Republic of Serbia's budget does not provide for a level of the province's budget of around 70 or 75 billion. She's much lower. It is possible that the Republic's budget provides for some investment in the territory of Vojvodina and that these are capital investments. It's still not the province's budget. Furthermore, we have 32 billion funds in the budget that are planned, which will only go through the province's budget and which we will not be able to afford. If every investment in Vojvodina is treated as a budget or if we count it in some way, then the question is why is it 8% or 8.5%? There are significantly higher revenues from Vojvodina's territory in the budget. I think the 2013 Budget Law should be adopted in accordance with the Constitution, which is a minimum of those 7% and a minimum of quality resources so that another provision, from that member of the Constitution, can be respected that three weeks of the province's budget be used for capital investments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5344	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5345	Thank you. Before I use the right to reply, I would suggest, Vice President, in accordance with Article 101, that you set a break, even if the service determines if something is wrong with the system. This has never happened, and we've had discussions where there's been a large number of employees. No MPs can apply for a word and happens when the system is reset to create another order. I believe you're trying to follow, but there seems to be something wrong with the system. In one of the answers, Mr Dinkic kept talking about some of the funds the AP Vojvodina receives from the Republic of Serbia and which the Republic of Serbia is giving to the AP Vojvodina. I would ask that the termology be thrown out of this debate, because no one in the AP Vojvodina gets anything from the Republic of Serbia, but those funds in the AP Vojvodina and much more money is earned, and the AP Vojvodina returns only 7%. If the AP Vojvodina, which contributes to the republican budget with much more than 7%, has to listen in this way to how it is spoken of as some kind of entity scratching for some money and at the expense of the other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then we really have nothing more to talk about with the finance minister. No AP Dukena should give anything, but should allow at least a small portion of the funds made in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5346	Thank you. As far as the system is concerned, he's just like that. So there's room for five candidates reported. If he reports you ten at once, then I have to delete the list and give my word to whoever reports on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's just like that, I can't change it right now. Do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Then come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5347	Madam Chairman, this is really well-intentioned. So, Article 27. – it is up to the chair to lead this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 103. – if the MP appears on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure or replicas, you must give him a word before he who has applied as a regular debater. To do that, we understand the technical possibilities, but you have a secretary's assistant next to you and if you see that many have been reported, he writes down the names of those who have applied, reset the system and allow those who want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure to come forward. This is just a well-intentioned advice on how this session should run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and without anxiety.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5348	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. That's exactly what we've been doing all along, but you're unhappy and I have to explain every time someone picks up. Here, sits a man next to me and can confirm that we do it all the time. The next registered speaker is MP Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5349	For the first few months, we were discussing who was going to sit, and now we've moved on to this second part -- how the systems work, but I understand that it's not your fault. Mr. Dinkic, I noticed in your presentation an interesting one. At one point you said: "Citizens of the Duke, then you felt the need to stand up quickly and say, "The people of the Duke." Why is that? Why is this whole debate marked by this kind of fear or manipulation of the fear that Vojvodina is looking for something that doesn't deserve or, as you say, that it gets more than before, that you give it quite enough? I don't think that's the essence of the issue of Vojvodina's constitutional position, and in this particular situation, how much of Vojvodina's percentage will have in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This whole debate that we have now, everything that's been going on in this country for six years on the issue of Vojvodina's position is the consequence of the Constitution that you've almost all written and adopted together, all of your controversy about the percentage. We're the only country in the world where the word budget is polluted. In Serbia alone, we have interpretations of the budget. When the state spends, then the budget is over a thousand billion, and when the percentage is calculated for Vojvodina, then the budget is 830 billion. This can produce many more serious consequences than any specific number or concrete amount in this budget. The Liberal Democratic Party supports these amendments. Also, we believe that this budget, without adopting these and some other amendments, would not be in line with the Constitution and we support that kind of initiative to assess constitutionality before the Constitutional Court. At least you can't blame us that in the previous period or earlier, we had a different attitude and that we acted differently when a previous government, in which you, to remind you once again, were in a similar way either stealing Vojvodina or even manipulating numbers and percentages created a serious problem in communication between Belgrade and Novi Sad, or between the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia. One more thing I'd say to you, maybe I'll go out. You said at one point that you couldn't touch some of the expenditure items in the budget, that they couldn't be reduced as proposed by the promoters of this amendment, since the opposition's objections that expenditures were unrealistically low. It seemed to me that you in some way admitted that they were unrealistically low and that in this way they would only be further reduced. For me, it's a very important thing at the very beginning of the budget debate, so I wish it didn't go unnoticed. I won't take any more of your time, there will be more amendments that we can discuss if we're able to log into the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5350	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5351	The expenditures are realistically estimated. I was only talking about opposition objections, nothing else. So the government has realistically assessed both expenditures and revenues in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5352	Mr. Djuric is picking up the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5353	You didn't say that. I listened very carefully. You said – you say the expenditures are unrealistically low anyway, and if you reduce them with this amendment, it will be even lower and the deficit will be even higher. The Serbian-language construction suggests that budget expenditures are now unrealized. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5354	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5355	I think that, as my predecessors have said, this was a unique opportunity for the government to try to understand and that the Assembly would adopt, which I call on MPs, these amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly, because this would avoid not only a situation that is anti-constitutional, but also a potential political crisis that will always be imposed, regardless of whether it is in power, as it always is, the URS and Mladjan Dinkic or someone else is in power. It is simply such a situation that several things have been brought out here that have indeed continued the deception of Serbian citizens. First, it was said several times and tried to present that the province's administration, which is based on the Constitution, is a structure, some cost-effective administration that chews money from the republican budget, and then spends it in a way that is inappropriate, with a number of qualifications and assessments, in my opinion, unsuitable, as if they were minors without business ability. The same circuit administration, not only brought real well-being and infrastructure development in the AP Vojvodina, took part in the construction of various facilities that are of national importance. Not to mention the Željev Bridge with over 200 million, the Raca Bridge, the Panchev Bridge and other things that exceed the province's significance, in which the same administration, which you are criticising, participated. Basically, you presented these transfers to Vojvodina as local self-government. I think it's an inadmissible political guff of this government. I think you understand very well, Mr Dinkic, through the things you said in the campaign itself, that Serbia needs decentralisation, but it seems to me that you did not understand it well or that you did not adequately introduce it to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Either you were telling the truth at the time, or you wanted to place Vojvodina in the structure of any municipality in Serbia. Vojvodina is not and cannot be a local self-government, it is a constitutional category with a particularly clearly defined historical, cultural, political, ethical, economic and other backing, which is defined as such in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. She's nobody's gift, she's nobody's boss, she's nobody's project, she's a product of historical and other circumstances. As such, it simply cannot be treated in the same way as local self-government, but this shows that you would treat your announced regionalization exclusively in a symmetric way. It also means that you should first and foremost tell the citizens of Serbia who live in Vojvodina that it was your intensity and that all the time in the election campaign, as well as many other things we have heard from you, you are unable to meet, as you promised the citizens. Budget structure is a problem. In order not to throw numbers and figures here, by percentages, you simply changed the Budgetary System Act and thus played a constitutional provision of 7%. It's as clear as day. The structure is a problem, Mr. Dinkic. Basically, that problem would lead to something I wanted to warn you right away. We are at risk that the province administration cannot adopt the budget, then it will go to temporary funding. This means further decline and quality of life, living standards and things that have begun in Vojvodina or are yet to be built. Then the province's administration will rightly say - we would do this, but we have been suspended and the Constitutional Court will decide on that and until the Constitutional Court decides the citizens of Vojvodina will not be able to see the things done, but they will only be able to mark themselves with one color, let's say, in blue when it comes from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and when it comes from the province's budget, it will not be possible, because simple means will not be. That's what the policy that you wanted to avoid by wanting to talk about the budget in one professional way as finance minister, but inevitably, that conclusion is imposed. I ask you, if your party were now fully in power in the province of Vojvodina and its administration, would this be what this budget would look like and would this be what the Budgetary System Act would look like? That's a rhetorical question, because you and I both know the answer. You wouldn't look like this. That's what's bad for the people of Vojvodina. That is what is bad for the future of the Republic of Serbia. If we enter this element, and you haven't convinced us that this element doesn't exist, it simply raises the question that many of my colleagues here say – so what do we need the circuit administration for? So what do we need the Constitution for? So why do we need anything we've done together, many here or most of it, huge in this country. I think that's unfair, unfair. I think it brings the province's government into a very difficult financial situation by a planned move by the Republic of Serbia, and I think it opens up an unnecessary political crisis in the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. No matter how many numbers we can talk about now, it's inevitable. You, as responsible government as you present yourselves, had to and should have avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5356	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5357	I really don't understand why you want to create this artificial crisis because I've already said here 30 times that the budget is methodologically innate in exactly the same way as your party did when it led the government and the finance ministry worked for the last four years, or five years, if we count the mandate of Finance Minister Cvetkovic in two terms. The first is Bozidar Djelic, when he was the finance minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic, introduced it in 2003. The calculation methodology and the items for the Vojvodina budget when the real budget of the Republic has not changed absolutely by one centimetre. There are incomes passed on to the province from income tax, from salary tax, which is now being transferred, so 43% of the profit tax made in Vojvodina remains in Vojvodina, almost total income from the profit tax, if we include local self-government income remains in Vojvodina. These are the funds that were previously planned by the budgets, and now. Nothing's changed. There's a part that's meant for transfers for primary, secondary and higher education. For five years, your party has been planning the budget that way, and then you haven't said a word. I think you can change your mind within three months, that's your right, but explain why you want to do some artificial crises now, like something happened. Why would temporary funding be if the province's budget is now 15 billion dinars higher than your government approved last year? Only if you want an artificial crisis. Temporary funding goes when you don't have the majority to set up the province's budget. I don't know if that's what you think you don't have most in the province. From the point of view of finance and what is part of the Ministry of Finance absolutely 15 billion dinars has defined more the new government for Vojvodina than your government did. Maybe it's some way of treating you if you've done something worse, and now you want to have a crisis... Another important thing about the Budgetary System Act was changed in September, but never its own income was the basis for establishing the basis for the transfer in Vojvodina. Neither in the previous law on the budgetary system that your colleagues have brought nor now ever, and now the basis for the transfer is even bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5358	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5359	It may have been a methodologically developed budget the other way before the Constitution of Serbia, the new Constitution of 2006 that you mentioned. Maybe that's where we could agree with you. But, Mr. Dinkic, regardless of all your skills and the really financial magic you're trying to sell to Serbian citizens, the numbers are pretty clear here. When you say that Vojvodina got more, I don't know if you're listening to a fellow Radoman sitting on your right side and if you're listening to what the circuit administration tells you, no matter who's in power. It seems to me we have one chronic problem not to listen to each other. They tell you -- it's not true, Mr Dinkic, what you say. You have transfers that have been made directly. You've been pumping numbers on this, and you say, "No, we've invested a lot more than you've done." You want me to tell you one more thing. What we did as a government, the citizens said in the election. And you can tell that story for a while, and I see that it's always your intention -- that's all because of your government, your government is this, your government is that. Well, our government was great at a lot of things, but she was punished for bad moves. There's no need to talk about it anymore, we're the opposition. As far as the majority is concerned, the crisis arises because the province administration keeps telling you – things cannot be implemented based on such a structured budget. It's not the majority of the circuit assembly. Most in the circuit assembly are the most stable in this country and it is such that you can dream about it. I mean, I'm sorry that you can dream about the census in Vojvodina. But the problem is that after a move like this, and that censorship will be a mental noun for you, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5360	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5361	I clearly answer to you, if it could have been five years for the circuit assembly to accept the province's budget smoothly based on the same structure from the republican budget, what would be the reason for this now to be an exception? Especially given last year's adoption of the Budget Law, which he envisioned for Vojvodina 57.7 billion, and is now forecasting 70.5 billion. If that's not true, you deny me. Secondly, I understand your need to make an artificial political crisis through this because methodologically you have no reason to represent what you've been doing for five years now as a problem, if you've been doing it for five years. If you want an artificial political crisis, say by a clear name -- we don't know what to say otherwise, so what we've been doing for five years now, based on what we've been doing this year, we're going to press charges to the Constitutional Court. You still support it as a representative of that party. I mean, it's all legitimate, but it's pure politics, it's got nothing to do with the budget, or the finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5362	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5363	So we're not making an artificial crisis. We don't have a chance to make any kind of crisis, we're opposition in the Republic Assembly, we have a government that you say is stable, we have a government that unfortunately can't make any pre-election promises. Now, don't throw a gun at us that we are, as you represent us, incompetent, poor and small, capable of making political crises. The political crisis is made by the one who holds the key to the register and who decided not to look at it one way anymore, but another way. What's the matter with you in the last six years? What's been going on for the last three years? A representative here sitting right of you explained everything he had to say about it. It's simply a situation now and this isn't political, it's a constitutional issue. Why, then, when someone has no other way, other than to explain to you, the circuit administration is completely unthinking. If you had now made the regions in Serbia as you promised, so to understand, so to speak, those in Zajecar, Southeast Serbia are more successful and they know how to do it well, but you didn't do it either. There's no one of you right to put a question mark above the Constitution of an orderly way of functioning these people and why they're made. It's unfortunately politics, it's a crisis, Mr Dinkic. You're putting a question mark above them because they're not from your party. That's what I'm afraid of, and I don't want it to be like that, but you didn't convince us or you didn't convince the circuit administration that it was. It's a very simple thing. The easiest thing to say right now is why you didn't do it before. A lot of things, I repeat, we haven't done and we apologize to the citizens of Serbia, we haven't done much. Maybe we should have kicked you out of the government sooner, but we didn't. We apologize to the citizens for that, but that doesn't solve this problem, it comes now if we have temporary funding. It is not the will to cause a crisis by this party that I stand before today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5364	Thank you. Mr. Radoman has the word. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5365	Of course, the province's budget is not foreseen in that amount of 70 billion, of course it is significantly smaller. Again, maybe investments in Vojvodina are planned for some part, so it's going to be a sum of 75 billion, part, why now? They recently amended the Budgetary System Act, reduced the base. Now the base would be 965 billion, from that 7%, and this is 837 billion. That's the difference between about 10 billion. On the other hand, the Capital Investment Fund, of course both the Fund's commitments in Somboro and other municipalities, would have been settled if we had these funds in the budget. Of course, the province administration has set aside two billion dinars this year from these humble 15 billion for capital investment in Vojvodina. In addition, you have found by your regulation that Vojvodina is an underdeveloped area. It's never been before, at least I don't remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5366	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5367	When we talk, Mr. Secretary financially, about finance, let's talk about numbers. In the bill last year, 51.9 billion were allocated to the transfers of Vojvodina, including part of the salary and profit tax. Now, this year, 56.8, so more. For capital investments, allocated in the original 2012 budget, 5 billion 810 million, and now 13 billion 800. A lot more. It's the numbers. It is not good that the province government deals only with politics and does not care about citizens' standards. I understand that the MPs' club can and should be involved in politics, although I think a policy that does not deal with the language of numbers, and tries to make a difference between the Republic and the province, is harmful to the whole country, but it is the right of a political party that represents such a bad policy. The regional secretary should read the numbers, no matter what party it's from. If I were really, as you accused me, party-oriented, I guess the Vojvodina budget would be smaller, not much larger, 15 billion dinars this year than last year. I've never had a party in the first place, and maybe that's the reason for that rating. I'm telling you seriously, I've always had my citizens in the first place. I now represent the interests of the complete government of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever wants to cause this to be an artificial crisis, manipulating the numbers and speaking false in public, I think he's doing a very harmful thing for this country's interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5368	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Radoman. I'd close a circle of replicas right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5369	Of course I'm talking about numbers. Of course, there won't be so many provinces in the budget, maybe in the province, and not in the budget. Of course I'm talking about, that 66% of the funds that are going to go into the budget are transfer funds that the province really can't afford. Of course, it will not be able to meet the conditional obligation of 3/7 assets to invest in capital investments in capital projects. I'm really just trying to talk here about numbers, what constitutional obligation is, and the law of the Vojvodina and the citizens of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5370	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go. Wait, change the unit, please, because it doesn't seem to work. Just stick the card in the unit next to it, 'cause it's not working. Sign up, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5371	It's a good thing it's starting to work now. You see, some of the documents concerning the 2013 draft budget arrived about a month ago in the National Assembly. But the final papers, concerning the draft budget, concerning the final proposal that the government is proposing for us to be the 2013 budget, arrived on 20 November 2012. There's paper in front of me. So it was only then that we knew the final proposal that the Government proposed to us to be the budget for the next year 2013. So then we could and were able to finally do what we have right, which is to determine the budget and to bring the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as provided for in Articles 171, 172 and 173. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The budget proposal for a session of the National Assembly can begin at the earliest 15 days of the day of the adoption of the draft budget in the National Assembly. The final draft budget with amendments, so the government's final proposal is November 20th. Nine days have passed since that day. Nevertheless, we all tried to try to correct that first proposal, to try to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Article 184(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have to point out a few other things that are written in this book that should be a guideline for all of us to do and how we should do, so I'd like to invite you, all of you who have this book in front of you, to have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to pay attention to Article 71. The Constitution. I'll read it to you. Everyone has the right to education. Primary education is mandatory and free of charge, and secondary education is free of charge. Later it is said that all citizens have equal access to higher education, and the Republic of Serbia allows successful and gifted students of a weaker property status to have free higher education in accordance with the law. Now I'm asking you, if that's in the Constitution, in Article 71, is that the obligation of the central level of government? If it's a central government obligation, I don't see why the AP Vojvodina should be a postman or a flow water heater for couples going from one place to another? Is there anything else that he's dealing with Autonomous Province, not being a mailman for that money? The information I'm making available here is that 32 billion dinars just go through the AP Vojvodina budget. Is this information correct, is it a number? There's a number around here, then you're clear enough how much money is really going towards the province and how much is not going. One more thing to tell you, we had in the minister's speech that he pleaded on the 8.7 issue allegedly total expenditure goes to Vojvodina. In his second address, he said, 8.7 of the total budget goes to Vojvodina. I'm not sure that the proposed expenditures go to the province, not even from the total budget to the province, but you can check these statements in the stenogram, because I've just recorded every time the minister pleads about it. One more thing to say, and that is that the fact that I'm the minister claims that the Autonomous Province budget will be, that is, about 70 billion. I'm just pointing out one thing, that in the draft budget and this proposal to the first one that we got, 100.8 billion dinars or 12.31% of taxpayers' incomes, the decision to assign to whom and how much money it takes to make ministers, or government. The draft budget leaves discretionary rights to the government and ministers to total 100.8 billion or 12.31% of taxpayers' income. Now I'm asking you, if we got one paper a month ago and nine days ago a second proposal, it means another paper in terms of the government's amendment, where a correction in the amount of income tax has been made. I'm asking if for the percentage of the increase in the revenue side by 7%, the expenditure side was raised in part of the funds going towards the AP Vojvodina budget? If he's going, if we can get information on where we can send all this? In any case, I suggest that in the voting day you accept the amendment submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5372	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5373	Yes, a basis was raised for the calculation of transfers or funds intended for Vojvodina, with the rise in tax revenues, since this was established as the basis of the Budgetary System Act, for the same amount for which it was raised, this is the new basis. The new base is essentially 837 billion 184 dinars, a minimum of 7% for the Vojvodina Constitution is 158.6 billion, and defined by our draft budget law is 70.5. So much more than the minimum, even though we've raised that base in accordance with the Budget System Act and these changes that you've been talking about. Why did we raise our incomes? Because this assembly passed the Law on the Change of Value Added Tax in September of the month, the Tax on Income Act in September and the Excise Act. The first effects of this law were seen in October and November. Since the achievement is better than expected and this year's budget deficit will be about 20 billion dinars lower than planned, the government sent this amendment on November 20th, where it has raised tax revenue projections for the next year by 10 billion, based on a better achievement in this last quarter after the amended law, based on savings following the cancellation of its own revenues and 9 billion cut non-tax revenues. On the other hand, the budget deficit remained unchanged, 121.7 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5374	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5375	I don't see that part on this flat side. However, I did not get an answer because it is obviously true that the discretionary right to split the money in the amount of 100.8 billion dinars or 12.31% of taxpayers' income has a government and ministers. It's a fact that needs to challenge the public's attention. However, there is something else that needs to challenge the public's attention, which is that there is obviously not a lot of real writing in the budget. Here it is said, specifically by Mr. Minister, that the expenditures are realistically planned. May I ask you how in 2013 a thousand dinars were proposed for the cabinet of the Prime Minister? For the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers of 1000 dinars, for the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of Labour 1000 dinars, so from sentence to sentence. For the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering 1000 dinars, for the Public Debt Administration 1000 dinars, for the Directorate for Measurements and Precious Metals 1000 dinars. So there are 30 items in the proposal for a republican budget where the figure is 1,000 dinars that will be spent throughout 2013. I ask what is this real budget proposal and the real planned expenditure, if 37,000 dinars are planned for 37 items in the budget? That's what I've proposed an amendment to make all that money, all 37,000 dinars go into the current budget reserve, so let the government decide where and how to split it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5376	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the province's government, I disagree with the proposed amendment. I agree that there is a need to discuss the structure of the budget, especially the way the funds are spent. I wonder if 7% is justly distributed to all parts of Vojvodina, especially the part relating to capital investments? The covin seems far from the new now and this year we've remained short-sleeved. I'll talk in numbers. We got zero dinars. The only thing we got was a pre-election visit from the president of the province's government who made us decisions of 300 million dinars. There's no money coming in today. All we have left are photographs of the smiling province's prime minister and the smiling municipal leadership. The locals of Bavaništa, the largest village in the municipality of Kovin, which has 7,000 inhabitants, are left without a water factory, i.e. today they do not have a water line. The blacksmiths lost their industrial zone and had no chance of development. Believe me, my soul hurts when SIEPA sends investors who are interested in investing in Kovin and hiring the Covins, and investors turn around and leave because they come across the common ice. What's blackest is that we had to pay out of the municipal budget 40 million dinars to settle the debts of the Capital Investment Fund. It is a shame that a small and undeveloped municipality must settle those debts rather than receive additional funds for its development. I agree that there is also a need to discuss the possibility of saving in the budget, but that province budget. In particular, it is necessary to see how much the province administration is and the data I have come to on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website that the salaries of the province's secretaries are, say 50% higher than the salaries of the republican ministers. Do they do 50% more work or are their jobs 50% more complex? The Duchess should receive as much funds as she belongs to. In my opinion, there should be a law on financing the province, but that money should benefit all the citizens of Vojvodina, and not as it was done, to give 300m euros for the capitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5378	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5379	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, apparently the debate Thursday, when Mr. Pastor was transferred to this amendment here in the National Assembly. The fundamental question is, as far as we can see today in the debate, what is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. What is 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget? We are as a parliamentary group, knowing that this problem will arise, knowing that it cannot be resolved as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has tried, by talking with the province administration, by interpreting the Constitution, suggested that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly give authentic interpretation of the budget, and the provisions of Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that we will no longer be in a position to create such political crises. The only one who is authorized to give that opinion, that interpretation of what 7% of the budget is the National Assembly, which adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia, in addition to this proposal, came up with another proposal, submitting an amendment to the amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Law, where we specifically wanted public revenues and incomes, public expenditures and expenditures on AP territory to record problems as to how the AP Vojvodina budget is determined. As I am informed, the AP Vojvodina Assembly adopted unanimously, all political parties participating in the authorities and the opposition, gave a positive opinion on this amendment. I expect him to be adopted here in the National Assembly. It is also our opinion, following the adoption of the Constitution, that it was urgent to pass the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Here are three measures that could solve the problem, so that we don't come into a situation to discuss for days something that is the wrong step out of institutions and trying to solve problems by talking, and not in institutions, led to this situation. However, there is another problem, the problem of respecting the Constitution. Today we are listening to the debate here and criticism of those who have refused to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and now, calling this Constitutional Court the most ugly names, the same Constitutional Court is being addressed. The question arises and I ask you, Mr Dinkic, what will the government do to stop further funding of the unconstitutional powers of the AP Vojvodina, to abolish the institutions that remain against the constitution in the AP Vojvodina? Has the government taken over the powers and powers of the Fruska Gora National Park, which also, by the Constitutional Court's decision, come out of jurisdiction and cannot be in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? What's going to happen to the so-called. The Duke's Academy of Science, will it be abolished? That's the key questions. So this is where you make a classic maneuver. Those who do not respect the Constitution attack others to break the Constitution. Mr. Minister, please exercise authority. Your laws require you to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions. There's no talking about what the Constitution is and what it is. The law applies if we want to be a state. Above all, the next issue is with full law, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina should receive 7% of the budget. What is the budget, we propose to establish, but we also want to know how these funds are spent. We're very interested to know how he spent it. The president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Pastor here, said that Vojvodina is a devastated area, that there is no waterway, that there are no roads. You know, in the previous period, the funds assigned to the AP Vojvodina were adopted here in the National Assembly by budget. He was adopted by the same people who are attacking this budget today. We need to see how these funds have been spent. How is it possible that no infrastructure problems have been solved from all these funds? The issue of the administration is mentioned here. Look out, today, the newly-soldish Dnevnik has announced the salaries of MPs in the AP Vojvodina. Look at the salaries, and how many sessions, say, are held by the circuit assembly. That's the question. Therefore, the Constitution must be respected, but the rule of law must be exercised, if we want to be a state. Vojvodina has autonomy under the Constitution, but it cannot be broken by law and everything must be transparent and all the resources spent must be in the interests of citizens, not individual political parties. The constitution cannot be applied to a small one and cannot, Mr. Minister, have the government negotiate with lower levels of government respect for the Constitution. The government has to enforce the Constitution. In that sense, it is a criticism that you have not passed a law of jurisdiction for four months and resolved this unconstitutional situation. Probably, if the Constitutional Court had made a decision, we wouldn't have any problems like this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5380	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5381	Socrates wanted to die, but not Athens. So in one place, a significant philosopher comments on the problematic relationship between general ideas and values and those of individuals, groups who, representing them, often mix their personal problems with these communities. So one question is the political status of general values and ideas, such as provincial autonomy, citizens' rights to local self-government and province autonomy, and another issue is the political status of those entities, i.e. a party that has known or unknown why they identified with these values in their engaged representation. So Socrates wanted to die, not Athens. There are no political parties in the assembly's majority that dispute citizens' right to local self-government. There is no political party that wants to allow the province's autonomy to be compromised. Moreover, the URS explicitly advocate not only the progress and maintenance of the decentralisation process and citizens' rights to local self-government, but the expansion of this process and other territories within the Republic of Serbia through the regionalisation process. That is why I think it is very important in this amendment to understand what Minister Dinkic called an artificial challenge to the crisis or by sticking thorn into a healthy leg. They need neither DS nor political parties close to her to fear to the extent that their own political defeat can be identified with the possibility of jeopardizing these constitutionally guaranteed values. The united regions of Serbia, as well as all these years so far, will not stop these values from representing the defences in the future. It's an important message to all citizens. That's just what the facts show. If he's lying to a goat, he can't lie to a horn. Let go of the percentages. If my brother has one hair in his head, and I'm two, I'm 100 percent more hairy than him, even though we're both, to spare, bald. Take the total amount of money. It is illogical to accuse the government, which sets aside 15 billion dinars for affirmation of provincial autonomy more than the previous one, that unlike the previous one, it does not respect the province's autonomy. This, with common sense, will not have much to do with it, but it is an important message to citizens that failure to adopt this amendment is, in fact, not allowing one crystal clear topic, the rights of citizens to rural autonomy, not to infect highly virulent processes in the decay of certain political structures that they have imagined to have the privilege of defending and defending these ideas. The united regions of Serbia in those positions, with the full support of coalition partners, stand, as they have been standing and acting for all these years, but not only in words, according to this budget proposal, we see -- and in part. I remind you, budget funds for financing the province's autonomy are growing with the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5382	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Radoman, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5383	I really can't help but say once again that it's not true that the province's budget envisions these 70.5 billion. I really can't help it. On the other hand, I have to remind myself again of the structure of these revenues, that 32 billion will only go through the province's budget, the provinces do not have them, that it meets the obligations of the Republic towards basic education, according to secondary education, according to municipalities, or units of local self-government. As for respect for the Constitution, indeed, the province administration has stopped funding both SANA and other powers that have been disputed. We stopped paying salaries to the National Park of Fruska Mountains because we can't leave people without pay. I don't mind if the Republic gives those funds. I think that's okay. The Regulation found that Vojvodina is an underdeveloped area. This regulation has recently been adopted. That's, unfortunately, a fact. When we talk about the even spending of funds for the Capital Investment Fund, is it really a question of how to evenly spend what is almost minimal? As for the water pipeline in Bavanište, in the elections and then the current finance minister promised to be built in 2006. That's what you remember well. As for the province's administration's salary, we have now changed the experience of Minister Dinkic and I as the province's secretary. We have identical salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5384	Time. Mrs. Novkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5385	As for the water pipeline in Bavanisht, the part that was promised by the NIP has been fulfilled. The pipes are set. Further funding has taken over the province. For six years, the people of Bavanica have been waiting to get water. Unfortunately, they didn't get it. I really suggest that politicians step out of their cabinets and offices a little bit and actually see how citizens live in Vojvodina, as well as in all of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5386	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5387	It's really important information about the "Fruška gora" National Park. That just confirms what the DSS's been saying all along. Why doesn't the Government implement the Constitutional Court's decisions? It's been four months. The Constitutional Court has acted on a proposal delivered to him by our parliamentary group. Here, for four months, we have persistently called upon the government to implement the Constitution. Instead, I must say, Mr Dinkic, the matter has come down to negotiations, because the pressures from the province administration are going, which through statements from individual officials, through statements from the European Commission's representatives, will closely monitor what happens with the implementation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision. Here, today we hear that the province continues to fund unconstitutional jurisdiction because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not taken over jurisdiction. That's the key problem we're talking about. If we're going to, we're all here in favour of the Declaration, we're all talking today about respecting the Constitution, negotiating it and interpreting it, you have to exercise authority and assume jurisdiction. Is there any fear of these statements, of these attacks, of the views of Jelko Kacin, Stefan File, that no authority is exercised, that the Constitution is not respected? I ask you to remove these situations as soon as possible, because otherwise they will always be in a position to say – if they have violated the Constitution, that you are in violation of the Constitution and that the Republic government violates the Constitution, because that is how the political crisis is created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5388	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5389	Thank you. Today, the debate on this amendment is very much about the fact that Vojvodina is seeking something, that the Vojvodina is given something, as if the Republic of Vojvodina were giving a charity. It is well known that Vojvodina contributes six times more than is returned to it, in fact than it is given, as discussed today in the debate on amendments. Also, the budget debate has narrowed down to the fact that a little debate has shifted to the fact that many MPs who have not crossed the census in Vojvodina are talking about how the AP Vojvodina budget will be allocated. It is said that the sewerage should be introduced in the town of Bavanište and I don't know where, and it is well known that only 10% of the places in Vojvodina have sewers. All those who speak of it will not surely support the amendments, nor support the view that Vojvodina should get its 7% of what the Constitution provides for, they will warmly vote in favour of a budget that reduces Vojvodina's resources, so it is not good that they speak of it. It is simply today that a debate should be held about the fact that Vojvodina should get its 7%, not how the Vojvodina budget will be distributed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5390	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Alexander Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5391	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Our MP's name is Carol Chizik. Please pay attention. For Minister Dinkic, our colleague Olena Papuga, the day he tweeted from the Assembly, was anonymous. He does not respect the National Assembly, but you would have to adopt that practice and read the names of the MPs correctly. The amendment is very similar to the amendment submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The reason for not accepting the amendments by the government is the same as the reason for not accepting the amendments submitted by the AP Vojvodina. Our argument is the same. We do not believe that 8.5 or 8.7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the AP Vojvodina has been secured. We don't even believe that 8.7% of tax revenues are provided, since 30 and more than 30 billion dinars of these funds are only, without any legal basis, without any constitutional basis, going through the AP Vojvodina budget. One day these funds are on the budget, and the next day they are being transferred to another place. We don't think it's the AP Vojvodina budget. We believe that by refusing to accept this amendment, the AP Vojvodina and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina are forced into a situation where they will have to break the Constitution because Vojvodina will not have the opportunity to meet the constitutional obligation of three weeks of its budget, which must be spent on capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We can count everything, if we want, on the AP Vojvodina budget. However, these are not funds which, by logic, by some basic principles of logical thinking and by the Constitution, cannot be considered as funds belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget. We believe that unless this amendment is adopted, the constitutional minimum will not be met.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5392	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5393	The Honored Presidency, the Honored Ministers, fellow MPs, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, which refers to the part about the funds collected from excise duties on oil derivatives, i.e. tobacco processing. We think that it is necessary to reduce the excise duty on oil derivatives by three million dinars, and to increase at this section for tobacco processing. Of course, I have also read the argument given by the Government and certainly is to regulate the heights of excise duties in another way. In any case, I ask you to pay attention to these things, because Serbia has the biggest excise duties on oil derivatives in the environment, and therefore, and the price of derivatives, so that all carriers bypass us, bypass our roads, and it is necessary to pay attention to, for example, that, in that section relating to excise duties on tobacco processing, given that these processing is the cheapest thing, that we have the largest number of smokers in Europe, we reduce them, or to increase them, and to reduce the number of people who will decide to smoke and thus preserve people's health and thus bring people back to our roads, carriers from abroad, and we would certainly increase health care. Also, it should be noted that by increasing taxes and excise duties, we can further endanger the construction industry and all these companies that are on the verge of rentability, because we know that in certain elements of the construction industry – crep, brick, cement, etc. And energy like gas, about 50%. So I'm asking the government to be more careful in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5394	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5395	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the examples of selective compliance with constitutional provisions. While the constitutional provisions are occasionally respected, constitutional provisions are not respected on some other occasions, and in this particular case, and as the Constitution is called upon, and the Financial and Legislative Committee, which, in fact, determines that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution. However, despite the fact that this government refers to Vojvodina by reducing its transfers and thereby directly violates the Constitution, this government selectively respects constitutional provisions, so I think it is quite clear which direction this country is headed, and that, in the direction of a general disregard for the Constitution and legality. The consequences are that we will no longer have a legal state, if this continues. The amendment proposed that the amount of resources available to the National Employment Service be reduced by three billion, since the National Employment Service did not prove to be a good mediator, it did not prove to be a good master, or one who has the resources in the interests of unemployed persons. We've allocated these funds to student standards, student standards and refugees and displaced persons. Unfortunately, there is obviously no will for this national employment service, which is a completely unnecessary service, in the sense that it has not done anything useful for those for which it has been established, yet it is not intended for those high funds given to this service to be reduced, at least in part, and to meet some other needs of some other users. I think it's clear to everyone how low the student and student standards are, and how hard refugees and displaced faces live, because today we have collective accommodations, after so many years of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5396	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5397	This is one of the amendments that DSS MPs want or propose to transfer funds, which are intended for various expenditures at the position of ministries, to social contributions. What I'm saying at this point is that we're all here primarily because of the citizens, that this is the National Assembly, and that we're not a bunch of random passers-bys, but that citizens have chosen and authorized us to take care of them and of the state, and that our behavior and decisions we make must function as citizens and states. If we know that over the last five years, 270,000 people have lost their jobs, that we have the highest unemployment rate, that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, that there is a minimum profit of 20,000 dinars, and that the minimum consumer basket is over 30,000 dinars, that the child's allowance is just slightly higher than 2,000 dinars, and the basic message of this government that we all heard when the prime minister explained his exposés, the first sentence was demographic. Our child's allowance is just slightly larger than 2,000 dinars, which is enough for one pack of diapers for babies. If we know that families are the most vulnerable and numerous who live on financial aid of 10,000 dinars, and at the same time the cost of living, compared to last year alone, has increased by 60%. When all these things are in mind, and all of this data, the DSS believes that citizens are very little in this budget, that social givings must be much greater and that the state must be more serious about solving problems and the most vulnerable categories of the population in Serbia. These are families with children, families where no one is employed, nursing homes, and not only in rural areas but also in urban areas. As a party, we have put forward a proposal for an amendment, to increase social benefits by 40 billion, above all, for child protection that would almost double, for combatants of disability and for social protection. If I'm out of time, I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. We also propose that the proposal be adopted and that a social map be made, in order for subsidies that are non-selective and evenly distributed, to those who live on Didinj, and to those who live in the most vulnerable municipalities in Serbia, so that these subsidies come to those who need them and to have a fair and just possession of the resources it has. Every time there's a social donation, the state says there's no money. It's always the cars break down on the citizens, and it's always the citizens who save. With this budget, only citizens will save and only employees in the state administration, because salaries will rise by 2% next year, and 60% have jumped costs to small and minimum consumer baskets are far higher than they were last year, and wages are up 2%, hence pensions. During the last socially responsible government, 270,000 people were out of work. We will see what this socially responsible government will do and those who are fighting for pensioners' rights. They haven't done anything yet. Moreover, pensioners and government employees, as well as those receiving social assistance, will be worse next year than now. So that the state doesn't save, you can tell by the following things. The state is extremely irresponsible when it needs to be saved. For this year, money is foreseen, and I also talked about it in principle, to build a basketball hall in Belgrade. Is it necessary for Serbia, is it necessary for Belgrade, besides all the sports halls we have? Of course not. Are new cars needed to be purchased by the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority? Of course they're not necessary this year. Does Raptel have to pay 60,000 euros to rent a business space, that the state doesn't have a single building where Raptel can be, but has to pay out of the budget, or from the Raptel Fund and from the position of Raptel, 60,000 euros a month to rent a business space? Is that the blatant wastefulness we attend now and after a few years? Of those 60,000 a month, how much easier a family could live than it is now to have someone gardening in an ultra-luxurious business space, instead of finding another building, whether in a building SIV three or in another building, as we MPs and all others have an adequate business space. In difficult times, the state must save, not the citizens. Was it necessary to spend tens of millions of dinars on horses outside the Assembly building last year? Of course it is not necessary and of course we must take care of the citizens living in this Serbia, who chose us, and that in difficult times of crisis it is a priority. Priorities are citizens, not horses in front of the Assembly. Finally, the government and the state and all of us MPs here must be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5398	Just to let you know, this is the rest I turned down for you from the MP's group. The People's MP, Dusica Morchev, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs, Dr Nenad Popovici Dr Ruzica Igic, jointly submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5399	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, the public debt to GDP ratio shows the country's fiscal strategy. This year, that relationship is close to 60%, which is a major threat. Hopefully, in the next few years, that relationship will be smaller. We hope that the measures that the government will take in the coming years will lead to a reduction. In 2013, interest will amount to 90 million dinars. That's twice as much as the agrarian budget. That's five more than business subsidies. The amendment we have proposed makes sense, and we ask you to accept it, that the Assembly controls the borrowing. Of course, the congregation can't do that every day, it can't work on a monthly basis either. But we believe that once a month we can have a discussion in the congregation. When Dr Vojislav Kostunica resigned, our duty was five billion less than it is today. It is therefore very important that we do not allow borrowing that leads us to debt slavery and that borrowing is done under the control of the congregation. One debate is needed to lead at least quarterly. You yourself, Mr. Minister, have criticised that the previous government was in debt without a clear strategy. I'm asking the chairman to take my time from an authorised representative. Tomorrow, Mr. Minister, the second minister will be seated, and you may be sitting in these benches, and you will also be able to contribute to the debate, of course, not on a monthly basis. Once a year, we adopt a borrowing plan, but once a quarter of the resolution minister reports to us, and on the basis of that report, we agree only on yes or no to the next quarter, see if what was promised in the first quarter has been fulfilled. There is no sense of abnormal control, but once quarterly in the process when the whole of Europe is in an economic crisis, and especially Serbia today, I think this is one good basis for normal dialogue. In addition, the following needs to be done – unique methodologies for determining the total debt, both external and internal, such as public and other industries, should be provided, so that what was in the past does not occur to us to get all kinds of information about the amount of external debt. They repeat once again, to ensure the conduct of a unique methodology for determining the total debt. Under point 2, what needs to be done is that a public debt management strategy should be adopted in the Assembly. I think in the first quarter of next year, the government could come out with this strategy that would include the basic elements of the government's future economic policy. Finally, as a third proposal, I propose that a body be formed in the Government by highly skilled people to assist the Government and the resolution minister, given an assessment of the economic justification of borrowing in the future. The government has a lot of bodies. The government has hundreds of agencies. The government has hundreds of advisors, but I think one professional body... We have a fiscal council that makes good and concrete suggestions, criticisms. Sometimes he gets into conflicts with the government. I always think it's positive to hear another voice. Perhaps this body, in this way, the expert body of the Government, which would take care of further borrowings, i.e. economic justification for borrowing, could be one government support, and on the other hand, in the Assembly, would also be an additional "control body" to get the opinion of those people who are particularly professional in this regard. Once again, I will return to an excellent period of government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica when the government paid back a billion dollars in debt to the IMF. It was one responsible procedure and then we moved from a highly-indebted country to that ratings of medium-indebted countries. I think such a responsible policy should always be run. This amendment and these proposals are made precisely to that end. What I'm also going to suggest is a diversification of borrowing. We are fortunate that Serbia has extraordinary relations with the People's Republic of China. China approved a 1.8 billion-euro loan for infrastructure projects, and approved them under extremely favourable conditions. Today we see that the EU is stealing our territory. The same hand runs this process of liberating the criminals Haradinaj, Gotovina and others, and the same hand takes away Kosovo. We must both go economically and politically where they want the best possible cooperation with us. Not only that, the biggest partners who co-operate with these countries are very European countries. Germany, France and other European countries are most cooperating with China and Russia. Speaking of borrowing, Cyprus, which holds the presidency of the EU, has committed 7.5 billion euros to Russia without any political or any other conditions. That's what the president of Cyprus said. The President of Cyprus also said -- while our partners, I quote, set certain political conditions for us from the EU. It's a very important thing. If we co-operate with China on the economy, and especially on borrowing, I must say that China has launched an investment cycle, Mr Minister, in Europe and you know it well, and in the next four years, the countries of Southeast Europe, including Serbia, will give 10 billion euros of credit under the most favourable conditions possible. I think one third of that's gonna go up to 20 years. Recently there was a Chinese delegation here and they keep coming. I think we should take that chance on borrowing. I would also add that as regards borrowing again, these diversifications of borrowing again to loans from China exceed all foreign loans granted by the common Member States of Group Seven. So China itself gives more credit than seven of the world's largest countries. See where the problem is? We are now hearing today statements that we must accept the border in Kosovo, IBM, integrated border management, otherwise we will not go further into the EU. It's really nebulosis. Like we won't have money, so we don't need money from the EU. The European Union has not given credit to anyone in the last few years. They have their own problem. They will save him for themselves, but they will not help us. We have to guard our territory, not even give our country's pedal, and we owe ourselves, because we need money, where we have the most favourable loans with the longest payment deadline, with the best interest. That, first of all, is China. I'll give you information from the Financial Times a month ago where China's Export-Import Bank and the China Development Fund approved more loans in 2009 and 2010. So two institutions in China gave more credit than the entire World Bank. These are indicators of where we should go in this diversion of borrowing. I don't have to say that in the construction industry, Chinese leaders are in the world. Recently built the longest bridge in the world, 42km, with 5,000 columns that cost $1.5 billion. This knowledge of the most modern technologies in construction can help our builders. Of course, taking on these loans should always try to make the most of what is possible, using our construction operation and educating our construction workers to participate in the biggest technological projects in the 21st century. I think we should use the potential of co-operation with China in the railroad. Recently, the largest 2,000km track was built at 5,000 m high to connect Tibet with the central part of China. It's a 5,000-metre rail line, it's a real venture. There's also access to our construction workers who could work together with Chinese, but to use from China only the part that's high-tech and use as much of our construction operation as possible. We must also use political support from China and Russia, especially in these days ahead. Yesterday he was also vice president of the Russian government, Rogozin. Russia approved a one-billion-euro loan. Once again, we need it, Mr. Minister, for the future of greater involvement of the Republika Srpska Assembly in the approval of loans, I say once quarterly. We need, of course, as part of parliamentary control, the diversification of our borrowing and that it is always directed towards preserving the domestic economy and access to the latest technologies. Please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5400	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5401	I am taking the opportunity to inform you that at yesterday's session, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Fiscal Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2015, which will also be addressed to the Serbian Parliament and to the MPs. Among other things, in this strategy we made the path of reducing public debt over the next three years, in detail, and then projection by 2020. We foresee measures to ensure that this strategy is implemented. You're absolutely right. We are also aware that the public debt, which has doubled in the last few years, must be stopped. That's why we've brought this restrictive budget for next year. We plan a fiscal strategy to bring down the budget deficit at only 1% by 2015. As for the public debt reduction, we plan to bring down the public debt from 65%, what will be next year, to about 58% in 2015. As one of the measures we anticipate is to limit the annual growth of guarantees to 1% of GDP, which will be foreseen by amendments to the Public Debt Act. So, we plan to amend the Public Debt Act where we will put restrictions on future guarantee issuances, as well as direct borrowing, i.e. harmonize these criteria with the aim of reducing the public debt and its return within the framework of 45% of the budget system. However, the Fiscal Council and the IMF, as well as our experts at the Ministry of Finance, have calculated that even with such a large fiscal consolidation, which we plan to do over the next three years, that is to say, from 7% of the deficit to 1% in 2015, and with the sale of some of the state's assets in order to finance the payment of previous loans and the reduction of public debt, public debt can be returned to the frameworks of a certain Budget System Act only in 2020. So all projections say that unless there's a complete shift in the international economic system and if we don't record enormously high growth rates, which we would like, but we've made a conservative scenario here. This programme is also accompanied by a proposal for structural reforms, not only by public finances, but also by economics and social activities. I hope you get a chance to comment and make some suggestions when you get it. In that sense, we do not feel that it is necessary, if we have these restrictions on the growth of guarantees and restrictions on direct borrowing, we will automatically remove any possibility of borrowing. These guarantees would have been made to me not by government decisions, but by the laws this Assembly would have confirmed and thus limited, not only by the current government, but also by future governments since further borrowing. The only way to prevent borrowing is to have a projection of how much guarantee you can issue during one financial year, or how much direct credit you can take. Otherwise, I share your opinion that Serbia must disperse in its policy, including public debt policy. That's why we predicted one significant amount of credit from the Republic of China. We have a strategic partnership relationship with it and very friendly relations, as well as with the Russian Federation, which also envisioned significant loans for the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Here I fully agree with you that you should first see who can approve cheap loans, who can grant loans to infrastructure and go after them. I have to say, in addition to these budget funds, for loans to build Corridor 11 by the Chinese government and so on. Moravia Corridor Pojate-Preljina, we are now negotiating to build missing shares through concession, also, with Chinese partners. Given that this budget covers the financing of the highway from Obrenovac to Ljig and from Pojat to Preljin, that from Ljiga to Cačka is built by the government of Azerbaijan, but there are no covered shares from Belgrade to Obrenovac and from Cačka to Požega. Our idea is to cover these two remaining shares through the concession, and the concessionaire, which would be a Chinese company that would self-finance these works, would be charged with toll revenue from the whole direction. Anyway, I support your idea of risk dispersion. I am responding to your good proposal that the Assembly should limit further borrowing, with what we have predicted to do in this way, and which is contained in the fiscal strategy adopted yesterday in the Government, which will be forwarded to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5402	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5403	I support the content of Mr Popovic's amendments, although I disagree with most of his reasoning, especially when he spoke about some political aspects of our European integration. You're wrong, Mr. Dinkic, when you reject the amendment this way. Your argument is directly contrary to everything you're building on, so to speak, some kind of political offensive. For months, you've been saying to the public in Serbia that you've been shocked by the degree of debt, the level of public debt, the way the previous government, that is, previously the Ministry of Finance, owed the country and used that money and that you didn't know anything about it, on the one hand as a party in the government, and on the other hand, as an MP in this parliament. What Mr Popovic suggests, which we support, is that you have this control in the future, that Parliament has control. In your explanation, you say that otherwise, before the start of the financial year, it is known for which amount and for which purposes, Serbia can be in charge, the amount and the purpose of the guarantees given and that this is done by the budget. That's what happened in the years before. You also adopted the budgets in which it was planned, so we ended up in an enormous problem. As you say yourself, it's not just the position of opposition parties. Your response to the new fiscal strategy foresaw a similar solution, i.e. the maximum amount of guarantees in future budget years, is also not good enough. So this is not just about the maximum amount of guarantees or new debts, but also about their purpose, or what you're using them for. What is the guarantee to parliament, which is a guarantee to the public of Serbia that you will, as I say, give the minimum or reduced amount of guarantees, whose maximum amount you will limit, to companies or to those users who will make the most of them economically or otherwise? In a country that is so divided, such as our country, in a country where you are preparing such a law on public enterprises, in which everything is absolutely divided within the quotas of the ruling coalition, our fear is that you will again decide on these guarantees exclusively on a party or interparty basis. You said a great thing – yesterday the government adopted a fiscal strategy at a session. That's what you boasted, but I think yesterday the government adopted some other decisions at that session. Is the new director of Srbiagas appointed yesterday, three days before the assembly debate on the new Law on Public Enterprises, which will bring about the famous departisation of businesses and the public sector in Serbia? I think it's a serious slap in the face of this Parliament and this country. Speaking of which, diversification, that we should be in debt wherever we can, under the most favourable conditions, agree absolutely with that, but I don't think that's the key question for us. The key question is how are we going to use these loans? Credits are favourable or are adverse solely depending on whether you make effective use of them. We have almost no credit in the past that has taken advantage of your governments. Now that we're here in Parliament today, we heard yesterday that it's a favourable loan from the Russian Federation, I believe, but let's hear some more specific conditions. That's always good, given that this loan, I think, is the third or fourth time approved by Serbia in the media, and it never begins to realise it. While you're here, there may be an opportunity for you to talk about it, as well as for these other questions I've raised. Yesterday you appointed the director of "Serbiagas" before the start of the debate on the Law on Public Enterprises, and quite symbolically for the company for which we allocate so much money from the budget each year, where usually before the start of the budget year, or when adopting the budget, you have no idea how much loss they will make at the end of the year, and then throughout the year we have to give new, new and new guarantees for new, new and more expensive loans to "Srbijas".
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5404	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5405	As always, the Assembly will grant approval on our proposal to amend the Public Debt Act, which will introduce a limit for future guarantees to a maximum of 1% of GDP and to a limit for direct borrowing growth. In this way, the Assembly will first give confirmation, hopefully, to this roof law, and then to each individual guarantee, according to the usual procedure, to declare whether or not to accept it. We have completely changed the policy of the previous government regarding the granting of liquidity loans to companies that are losers. We've banned it, it's not in the budget, as you know, for 2013. With that kind of practice, we'll continue. So there will be no will of any individual when we propose guarantees. You have now seen that all the guarantees granted here are exclusively for capital investments, exclusively for capital investments. As long as I run the Finance Ministry, that's how it's gonna be by the end of the term. However, we will give the Budget System Law restrictions on future debt growth for some new governments, so that this situation does not repeat that we have six times the cost of interest in just four years and twice the public debt in the last four years as well. With this fiscal strategy, adopted yesterday by the government, we will be able to stop public debt growth and interest costs. Unfortunately, at the level of some hundreds of billions of dinars, there will be interest costs in the next year, and in that year it will drop back to 95, but at least it will no longer grow exponentially as it was in the previous few years. It's something that's reality. We're doing everything. Otherwise, we harmonised this provision in the fiscal strategy and with the Fiscal Council, that was their proposal, as well as with the IMF, which it supported, and the World Bank gave us full support for the new Public Business Act. Besides, you can talk to them, so they'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5406	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bojan Đuric, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5407	I didn't ask you, Mr. Dinkic, what do you swear to me at the time when you're Minister of Finance? I want to know what the government's policy is. That's what I'm talking about. At some point, you can no longer be in this government, start attacking her, as you attacked previous governments when you left them, but I'm interested in what the performances of this country will be when this government completes its mandate. I asked you what is the guarantee that future borrowings will be used most effectively and you issue guarantees? You didn't answer that question. You said you'd limit their amount. I gave you a chance to tell me on a specific case. You said you wouldn't allow more guarantees for liquidity loans. Yesterday you appointed the new director of Srbigas. I assume you named it based on some program he put out, above all on how he's gonna run that company. How will "Srbigas" from January 1st next year not produce the losses it is now producing and produced in previous years? Will gas be radically cheaper for Serbia? Will gas be collected for citizens and for the economy of Serbia? How will you finance the difference between the purchase price and the sale price? If you did not provide guarantees for new loans, how will you service the losses of "Srbigas" in 2013? Perhaps you didn’t have to worry about it much. Perhaps you expect this from the new "Serbiagas" management? That's what I'm asking you. I assume you were considering a work plan for the next period yesterday. I've already spoken here, I don't think Mr. Bajatovic is the sole culprit. In the circumstances in which he worked, where you dictate to him all the elements of that price, maybe there's nothing more that could have been done, but I'm asking you how you're going to do it in the future. Why is it also important for the Assembly to consider a plan of office or a way of dealing with it? This year will be the tenth year that we have not passed the final budget bill. You didn't answer my question, either, what terms of credit?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5408	Thank you. Mr Bozidar Djelic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5409	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Dear Minister, on this amendment, I want to say that this is a good idea, but it can't be done like this. When I was Minister of Finance, I suggested, this assembly accepted it, that each individual task should be taken to the Assembly. It's important to preserve itself as a principle. Is that enough at this point? I believe that, given what is proposed in this budget, it may not be enough, so we cannot support this amendment, especially under these powers that the minister gives himself for these 300m euros in solving existing duties. We had Friday, when he explained this law, his promise that it would not be used for anything but capital investments. I think we'd be instructed to have a report for three months or a midterm, to see if it's effective what local self-government reported, i.e. The Duke corresponds to that description. As far as duties are concerned, I would just like to remind myself, when I'm already trying to profile a political one here, that the person and the party who initiated the strategic partnership with the Russian Federation and a concrete project, and we worked together with the DSS, are actually Boris Tadic and DS. That took five years. Today we have several very positive arrangements. The party and the president who initiated and secured a strategic partnership with China are Boris Tadic and DS. A few years ago, it's rare that anyone understood that well. The strategic partnership with Azerbaijan, which today helps with Corridor 11, is an arrangement provided by DS and President Boris Tadic. It's all that base, as a basis in a state-of-the-art way, predicting problems that the Eurozone, done by DS and President Boris Tadic, will face. In the end, I only have one question when we're talking about this diversification. The government, which is very often criticised here, secured from the Russian Federation a little over a year ago a 12-year loan with two years' worth and a 3.4% interest on the annual level. Since the already mentioned vice-president of the Russian government was here in Belgrade, yesterday, could the minister tell us, under what conditions the same lender has now provided support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5410	The word is Dr. Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5411	Just a brief comment. I was not talking about political parties, I was only talking about the government led by Dr Vojislav Kostunica during that period when strategic partnerships were established, especially as regards the South Stream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5412	The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5413	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm going to keep going on about something that the DS has also provided us with. She ensured that Serbia is one step away from bankruptcy and that it is indeed a step away from being in front of debt slavery. Even if we stop in debt right now, Serbia can't repay its debts and we have a condition that it can actually serve them by 2042. That's what the DS provided for us. Serbia's public debt is 16.5 billion euros. When this loan is added, which Mr Dinkic mentioned to the Russian Federation 800 million, and we have not entered here the debt that we are now going to have here as a law in front of the National Assembly, that we should return 13.5 billion in debt to some health institutions, funds and all others in that health system, and that is not the number that is final either. So we have an extremely high public debt. Every citizen, every citizen of Serbia, is owed due to this enormous borrowing of previous governments, and this government has continued in the same direction, 2600 euros. Public debt is extremely high, as I said, and it exceeded 60% of GDP, and again I have to mention what my colleagues have already mentioned, that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in 2008, it amounted to 8.75 billion euros, or 29.2 per cent of GDP. I say this because in a short period of time, it means from four years, this debt has grown enormously, practically twice compared to what it was in 2008. And we have an extremely unfavourable relationship between our debt and our exports. What's also clear is that we need to reprogram our debts because we won't be able to service them this year or in the coming years. I just have to say one more fact, we're against it, and that's the amendment that Mrs. Banovic and I signed, we're against the government being able in any way to move into the vault without clear criteria why it's doing it to repay and service the debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5414	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5415	In Article 2. The draft budget law in paragraph 5 is proposed that – if at the end of 2013 there is a loan from a consolidated vault account depending on the conditions on the financial market can be transferred in the following year. I suggested erasing that attitude. I also suggested this when we decided last time on budget rebalancing because I believe that when the calendar year ends, all loans should be returned, or the Assembly should know what is the state of mutual debt and claims within the consolidated vault account. We in this way, and I was already saying that we have a draft budget law where practically 100.8 billion dinars or 12.31% of taxpayers' incomes, a decision to assign to whom and how much money should be given by ministers, or government. No matter what the government formally decides, core ministers will have a discretionary right to propose to the government. I expect the government to accept these ministers' proposals for the allocation of such a large part of the budget. In addition, debt is allowed to be transferred, meaning internal debt, internal loans even in the coming calendar year. Then I ask the question why do we need to analyze in detail what are the incomes, what are the expendable items. Maybe you should say the total expenditure item is so big, there's a government that shares how it thinks it should be shared by the end of the calendar year, so it goes through in the next year. If the National Assembly really wants to decide, on the items, what will be the use of, at least at the end of the calendar year to draw a line and to see who it owes. That doesn't mean that some correct debt or something that's socially justified, that it can't re-emerge as a loan or as if it turns out in the budget for next year. But to practically transfer the loan from the consolidated vault account next year, I think it's unwarranted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5416	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic, for 45 seconds, I turned you down from the parliamentary group. The People's Parliament, Bojana Bozanic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5417	Thank you. The DSS Group has submitted an amendment to Article 2 where it plans to add a position 7 that says – The borrowing and giving of guarantees under Article 1 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure governed by the Public Debt Act. Of course, that I have read the government's argument and that all this is regulated by the Public Debt Act, but it certainly needs to be pointed out on what my colleagues from the parliamentary group have been saying before, which is that the previous government has enormously tasked the state, very irresponsiblely working with finance and taking on certain loans and various things that we haven't had the opportunity to see quite the realization. I've seen so many loans taken to the railways and so on, but I haven't noticed at all that our railways have improved or that the transport has improved or that trains are much better, etc. I would point out what my colleagues were already saying, which is that it is very important to mention that when Vojislav Kostunica was Prime Minister, the government made a decision to repay the IMF debt of over a billion dollars. That decision has been made, which is very important. Then we became a country that has a relatively low external debt. However, in the coming period, at the end of September this year we reached some 16 billion euros in public debt and exceeded the limit, the legal limit of 45% of GDP. Then we have a number of other debts that are not recorded as public debt. These are debts from local self-government that are not guaranteed by the state. Then, the NBS that owes about 1.7 billion euros. Serbia's assembly has ratified around three billion euros of different loans that are not yet in the process, since project documentation is not finished. All these things and some other debts were actually not used at all for development, for investment, but only for covering the deficits, which is actually a threat to public interest. I will stand out again on what my colleagues have said, the necessary escalating control during Serbia's borrowing. We have to invest a lot more in the economy, in something that will give us back these particular funds so that we can continue to use them and generate new jobs and opportunities for the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5418	The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5419	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on this proposal to Article 3. The budget law, in the work on the approval of project and programme loans, we have two amendments, one amendment to the government and one amendment to the Finance Committee. The government's amendment, which Mrs. Chairman just recently read, has become an integral part of the law, we support. At the same time, we warn that it cannot be an integral part of the Committee on Finance, because they are completely different. I'll explain why, and you count the time from the parliamentary group. By amendment to this article, in the project loans section, the government predicted one item, which is to add the implementation of the second phase of the company's "TE-KO Kostolac" project package, the construction of a new energy block at the Wooden site and the expansion of the $600m mine capacity. The government has given a great explanation, which I want to quote and support. The government proposed this because it is necessary to provide for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at China's Port-Import Bank in order to realise the second phase of the project package, which includes building a new energy bloc, at the location of Woodno and expanding mine capacity. Just to remind ourselves, the complete package of projects, which was made with the Government of the Republic of China, implies two phases. The first phase was approved about 293 million and its realization is under way. It's about reconstruction, revitalisation of two blocks, and it's about subsidisation. A great one job, which will allow those two blocks to be revitalised, enable the life of power plants to grow for another 20 years, by increasing the number of megawatts by enabling maximum capacity to be used, which is a circus of around 20m euros for the company, which is otherwise successful and which is positive. I deliberately pointed this out, successfully and positively, for the simple reason that the SPS, when it looks at this borrowing issue, always has two things in mind. The first thing is, why are they in charge? What will the funds be invested in? Will it invest in energy, infrastructure and economy, which will of course return multiple times, which we support or in consumption, which we do not support? Another important question is when the state is in debt, it gives a loan guarantee, does it have guarantees that it will be a company that will pay off the loan? That's why I mentioned it, it's a successful company, which has a positive business and has guarantees that they'll pay it off. A very important question, for the simple reason why, one relationship that we have with the state of China, when it comes to this package of projects, when it's the first stage in realisation, when it's about to begin phase two, it means a new one block of 350 megawatts, and I think 12 million tons more of coal, investments in surface spears. Investment in this economic operator is not only that, but also investment in railway infrastructure, in ports, in roads, etc. I've mentioned all of this because it's a huge gain in investment in this job, and the biggest one is that it employs a large number of our people. You know, in order to build a block, some electrical equipment is needed, someone else needs to make it, and it's the workers of Serbia. I repeat, and the other day I said, there is no more important task in Serbia than hiring some people. For these reasons, and given that the amendment of the Finance Committee has once again excluded this position, I am against the amendment of the Finance Committee, and for the amendment of my Government. I support my government and I call for it to remain, to be serious in this business and to simply do the job to the end, which I fully believe will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5420	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5421	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more than two months ago, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in negotiations with the European Investment Bank, gave up the urban regeneration project on Dosite Street in Kralje, which has been hit hard by earthquakes and there are over 400 families living in difficult conditions for life. I'll remind you that it's a village that was built long ago and where there's a toilet on one floor and it's shared by tenants of all the apartments, so it's been determined, let me say, a social category, that is, it had a social component of this loan proposal, to regenerate that settlement. After my question to the prime minister a month ago, why did it give up, I was still waiting for answers. Here today we have received an amendment from the Committee and I thank you for where this loan is now included with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, and I think that this is one good thing, primarily social, then investment, is invested in infrastructure. On the other hand, over 400, I say, a family from a village in South Bogdan Street and Dosite, will get much better conditions for life. On the other hand, citizens themselves have organised themselves, asked the government of the Republic of Serbia, through a civil protest, to resolve their problem through this loan and this budget. It has been accepted and I support this amendment to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5422	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5423	Just so we're clear about these previous speakers, what came in from the guarantees. So, the government's amendment included a guarantee for China's Exim Bank, to build the next phase of revitalisation of the Kostolac thermal power plant, it was accepted. On the other hand, the Assembly Committee on Finance has proposed, and the Government has accepted an amendment that has just, as the previous MP said, approved eight million dollars of a new loan, through the Development Bank of the Council of Europe for the Kingdom, to remove the consequences of the earthquake, and plus these 500m euros in loans from the European Investment Bank for Small and Medium Enterprises and the development of entrepreneurship, because we believe it is necessary to enter the programme with the European Investment Bank. They lower their interest rate, we'll have more favourable conditions in the new loan than it was last time. Last time, the loan was 250m euros. It's so-called. "Apex 4." This will be "Apex 5", and will be dedicated to long-term credits for businessmen, with a 12-year repayment deadline, at an interest rate that will be very favourable. This one was approved at an interest rate of 2.5%. I think we'll be able to take that interest below 2% in negotiations with the European Investment Bank. These loans are intended for businesses, both for investments and for crafts, so that these two loans that the Committee has adopted today, to propose guarantees, and the government has supported, are complementary to what the government previously proposed for the project with China and Kostolc, so we accepted both. It's being collected, and it's not being taken away at each other's expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5424	The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5425	I don't mind all these supplements, on the contrary, and my colleague spoke a little while ago, and I totally agree with that. I'm just interested, I'm not sure that this is done, that it agrees with both, that they're complementary, but I want to believe that it is, and I support it. All I care about is whether this realization of the second phase of the project remains, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5426	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5427	The answer is explicitly that, therefore, both the loan for China and Kostolac, and the loan goes both for the King and for entrepreneurs, i.e. businessmen through the European Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5428	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is "Soul of the Seas."
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5429	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 relating to the erasure of loans for the restructuring of public enterprises. When I looked at the government's argument, where it says that these funds will be used, not only to restructure public enterprises, but to cover deficits for other financial needs and that they are extremely favourable conditions for borrowing on this loan, I can say that I agree with you, as we all agree in this room that we need a budget deficit to finance in the most favourable and least risky way. What I disagree with, neither I nor the DSS parliamentary group, is that the restructuring of public enterprises is conducted under the tutelage of the IMF and the World Bank. Why? The question arises which conditions should be met in order to obtain these loans and the question arises whether they are behind them preparing for the privatisation of our public enterprises? Another important question, why would the funds of this loan be used? Would it be used for various consulting services of foreign companies, and our Serbian citizens should pay for it and return it? What I want to point out is that the DSS advocates restructuring and professionalisation of public enterprises, but because of their importance, we believe that we should have a clear plan and strategy and that we should do so with the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not with the agreement of the IMF and the World Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5430	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5431	Just a brief clarification, the World Bank has two types of credit, it's in its programme for all countries of the world. One is investment loans, such as for Corridor 10, and the other are programme loans intended for the budget, which are used to cover the budget deficit, and sometimes refer to the financial sector, to the economy, and sometimes to improve the business climate, and so on. DPL loan, software loan. This loan refers specifically to the process of eliminating losses from the company in restructuring. And before we got that loan, because we just put it on, if we can get it, and all that if we finish negotiations next year, the elements of their strategy are adopted, because we like it and we think they're right. So, we need to stop funding liquidity loans and bail-out guarantees to losers and limit the deadline for restructuring so-called. social enterprises or state enterprises, whatever we call them, by a maximum of 30 June 2014. That's their proposal, so you know there's no other dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5432	National MP Dr Nenad Popovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Dr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5433	Mr. Minister, I didn't fully understand this amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 because the amount of 1.2 billion euros is listed. As far as I know, the Joint Interstate Committee of China and Serbia has adopted a decision to fund China's "Export-Import Bank" with 1.8 billion euros, so I would ask for an answer because it was left out here. I think it is extremely important for Serbia to return this 1.8 billion sum to finance the second phase of the construction of TE "Kostolac" and not only to be exceptional for the domestic economy, as much of our operational could be involved in the project, and the second phase of TE "Kostolac" strengthens our energy security. She has great potential for further development. Otherwise, in Kostolc, he's doing extraordinary leadership that started the process, and I think that in that sense every economic performance, especially where we can include our fallen economy, and with these favourable loans from the People's Republic of China is of great interest. Just starting the economy, then we can expect greater participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in these processes and this is an increase in the tax base, these are services, is in energy projects, as well as in machinery, as in the automotive industry, in one job in production, in direct construction, comes from five to 10 jobs in the supply sector, services and other sectors. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to explain this amendment. Otherwise, I insist, if that is not the case, that this amendment is accepted because I think it is for the Serbian economy, I will repeat once again, this credit from the People's Republic of China is remarkable, and for the domestic economy the second phase of the construction of TE "Kostolac" would be of the utmost importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5434	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5435	Basically, the government has accepted your amendment, through an amendment to the government that I spoke about a little while ago, with the amount in your amendment being $600 million for "Costolac", and the exact figure is $608,260,000, so because of that precision, it remains the amendment of the government, but that is essentially what you suggested. I repeat, the total guarantees for the Chinese "Export-Import Bank" will be over a billion and 800 million dollars, including projects, highways and the next phase for TE "Kostolac".
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5436	The word has Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5437	I'm reporting for precision, this is about a Chinese loan, but I'm asking you once again to clarify the question of the Russian loan, because yesterday we got the information that the loan was granted and I'm asking you to tell us what the purpose of this loan is, which are the exact terms, which are the interest, which is the grace, what will be used for, what is the ratio of the announcement of this loan and similar announcements that we had in the previous years, because I think that without these things we can hardly have this debate and debate in the public on terms of borrowing and credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5438	To clarify these things, the government of the Russian Federation just over two years ago approved the loan of the Republic of Serbia's $200m budget, under the terms of two years of starting periods and 10 years of repayment periods, the interest rate was variable, set at 2.95% plus a six-month billboard at the time of approval of 0.7%. On the other hand, then a loan was announced for the railways, but it was not negotiated until the new government took office. The railway loan was finally negotiated and adopted at our government some weeks ago, and the Russian government adopted it at its government's session Friday. The loan was agreed on at $800m, with an interest rate of 4.1%, as the difference between fixed and variable interest rates is noted. Grace period, or period, starts for four years, and the repayment period is 14 years. In other words, this loan is fully due in 2031. Compared to this budget loan, the first two are different purposes, one is investment, the second one was for the budget, one was a variable interest rate and a shorter payment period, and the other is a fixed interest which ensures that we know for sure how much it will cost us over the next 18 years, how long the payment takes, four graces and 14 payments. That's why interest is 4.1%) fixed, which means that if a fisherman grows in 10, 15 years, it won't affect the amount of our payment. That's why we resisted fixed interest, believing that the crisis wouldn't last 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5439	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5440	So we're finally clear. This is not about any new loan from the Russian Federation to Serbia, it is basically a loan that has been spoken of for two or three years. It's that $800 million tranche for the railroad. That's very important. In public, some more topics have been opened that are related to Russia's alleged strong proclivity or the Russian government to help Serbia in conditions where its budget is difficult to operate. It was also mentioned some 300 million a few months ago. I understand that part of the arrangement, in the meantime, has nothing to do with it. Of course, with gratitude for telling us more precise terms and fixed interest rates, it remains significantly more than the loan we talked about a little bit when it comes to the World Bank's funds and all the differences that exist between these loans and the institutions they give, with the fact that the interest there is not fixed and that the libor will not be much lower, but at this point under the present conditions, let's say that this interest on Russian credit is twice as high if I am counting well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5441	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5442	For the sake of precision, I'll say that our budget implies, except for this $800 million railway and the possibility of direct borrowing another billion for the budget. That is what the political agreement of two presidents, President Nikolic and President Putin have been reached about. On the second loan, the two finance ministries did not start technical negotiations for liquidity, but the loan was also agreed at the political level. That's why we planned it in the 2013 budget. That's what Tomislav Nikolic was talking about yesterday when he said Mr. Rogozin confirmed a political agreement he had reached with President Putin. We expect to start technical negotiations with the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation over the coming period on this loan, which is an integral part of the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5443	The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric and we end up with a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5444	I hope you're not bored again. Do you know any closer elements, what is the cost of this loan you expect, since we are in parallel in other international markets? Do you have information from President Nikolic or on the other hand, has during these talks, in any way, opened up the issue that we have with the amount of mine rent? It is a very important issue for the budget, it is a very important issue for a dozen municipalities in Vojvodina, for the whole of Vojvodina several tens of millions of euros. If the talks are conducted on political ground, on political grounds and not just on economics, then I think it must be an integral part of these negotiations. I don't know if you're involved in any way, but you might have answers right now. It's an integral part of the budget. That's budget revenue. One part of the mining rent goes to the republican budget, right? That's also connected to the question of how much Vojvodina gets? I wouldn't say Vojvodina was damaged just by getting those constitutional 7%. It has been damaged by not receiving even a piece of the mining rent, because the central government of the Republic of Serbia, almost all political parties in this parliament approved such an energy agreement in 2008. That's what your responsibilities are about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5445	Mr. Djelic, on what grounds? By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5446	So what I'm trying to say is that here he's trying to re-present one digit in two ways. What are we saying? We find that as far as the deal with the railroad is concerned, there's nothing new about it. That's the previous government that allegedly did everything wrong, so here's what you're very happy to take over this arrangement that we agreed on. What are we saying about the terms? First, investment loans are always longer than loans for the budget. Secondly, every time you have these arrangements, and we have a few experiences right now, I'd take an example of a Chinese arrangement that we had around the bridge, there's a 3% interest. What are we saying? If you got 4.1% here and I know it, 4.1% is almost 1% more than that interest we provided from the same Russian Federation before, and since this is a loan for investment, interest should be significantly less. Which is why citizens will understand very well, because when one China or Russia or any other country offers so-called. A trade loan, he expects to employ a good deal of his own operation from his firm. That's something you shouldn't run from and that's it. That's why they give exceptional financial conditions for credits. Let me remind you, we had an arrangement when it comes to energy, with Japan that has provided a loan that is much longer, on interest that doesn't even reach 1%. So it's very clear here that some major financial success has nothing to do with it. Thank you for your precision.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5447	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5448	I wasn't telling you about any financial successes, I was talking about facts. Under the same conditions, we got this as you did. The difference is there's a variable interest rate here, and here it's fixed. When you translate how much of a libor will grow over the next 15 years, this could be something more unfavourable. It's about the difference of zero coma some percent. It's not a topic, unless you want to make a move. There's another thing. Each country approves under different conditions. When we talk about bilateral loans, you have concluded a loan with Azerbaijan that is more unfavourable in financial terms than both Chinese and essential to this Russian that you have concluded yourself. Every country has its own conditions. You accept, or you don't accept. So these differences in magnitudes are one percentage point. It's a matter of purpose and effective use of them. I think Serbia also needed a previous Chinese loan for the Zemun Bridge – Borca and this new one that will go to Corridor 11, for Kostolac, for Pojata – Preljine, for the highway from Novi Sad via Ruma, Šapca to Loznica and Azerbaijani which has concluded the previous government, which I have gladly voted for because it takes all of Corridor 11 to secure itself. What you say is that I am in debt on the international market where there is no policy, where the presidents don't talk, but where investors make decisions. That's where we knocked down a significant interest rate, and that's what I was talking about. As far as interstate arrangements are concerned, it's a matter of country policy. All of these three loans are good for Serbia and I don't think there's any reason to say whether this one is more favourable for zero comas than something percentage or less favourable. It's important that these loans are effectively realised. The problem is much bigger, because the deal for the railroad has been negotiated for a very long time. Someone asked nicely – so where are these railway loans, our tracks are nothing, when are we going to see it in practice? Our government, the new government, has to do everything possible to bring this loan into practice, otherwise these figures and stories are good for some civil discussion. Citizens need to feel it in practice through better rails, through highways, through development.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5449	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5450	I support this approach to tell the truth, and the truth when we talk about euro bonds is that when the previous government placed a billion dollars, it placed it under conditions that were the same and somewhat more favourable than neighbouring Hungary and Croatia. The fact is that you're boasting now that you've come out of the same program that the government has agreed on, that's what you should say, because you haven't made any new prospectus, tranches not to 10, but to nine and five years. The first student of any economic college in Serbia knows that a shorter loan is paid a lower interest. The second element, you can't brag about it or run the world's finances globally, by the fact that the risk premium has fallen everywhere in the world, so in the last six months, one Hungary pays 2% less than it paid six months ago. Also for Croatia. For Serbia, it fell, but much less. Today, Serbia on the market is more expensive than Hungary and Croatia, and that is a fact and that is the chart that I showed the other day and that we will put on the DS site so that everyone can see. Don't brag about it because it can turn very easily in the weeks to come and the risk premium for all of our guy's countries is starting to grow again. As you do not deserve to boast of this, I will not criticize you for something that is not under your control becoming more unfavorable. When we talk about political arrangements, we find that by something which is mostly more expensive to pay, which is support for the budget, you've gone worse than we have, negotiating one job, where the Russian Federation has a direct interest in the railways. So much for that. I hope that ends this shooting. We'll see what kind of perphoms will be. In the end, I'll agree with you, it's important that the arrangements are conducted and that the gunmen benefit from it, but let's not represent any successes and some twists and new surveillance where they're not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5451	And I hope we're done. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5452	I'll help you get information on the website, so point out yours, as we pointed out on the Ministry of Finance website. The fact is that the so-called contribution to Serbian euro bonds is currently 5.6% ten years old and is 7.5% a year ago. No matter who broadcast for this opportunity, the number is the number, it's much lower. You can't attribute it all to more favourable conditions on this market now, because they didn't make it so much more favourable that two percentage points at least make that difference. You're also wrong about Croatia. Croatia did, unlike Hungary, which you mention went to the euro bond market this year. They went out on April 19th this year. They broadcast a billion and a half dollars for five years with a 6.47% contribution and an interest rate of 6.25%. The Serbian bond yields a few months later were 5.45% and 5.25% interest. So 1% lower than Croatia. If that's more favourable, I don't know why you have so much back in Croatia. Much worse went to the euro bond market than our government. I suppose you should support the government, no matter what you're not in it, if we've made a success even with the Croats and even with the Romanians, because we've been better than them. There's no reason for you to be telling some false facts for party reasons right now. So, the Croats have gone worse than we have and for even one percentage point, they have managed worse to sell their euro bonds. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5453	Mr. Djelic, I'll give you my word this time, but I don't think there's any need to convince each other anymore. Time will show which one is right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5454	You have no right to interfere with such matters, Chairman, but fine. Of course Croatia had better conditions, because in spring there were conditions for all. You can't show the truth so little – either whole or nothing. The fact is that from this spring until today, for many reasons, the appetite of investors for markets like ours, Croatian, Hungarian and others has grown. What matters today is the comparative situation of one country or another. We were in debt under the same conditions as the Croats. Today, if Serbia and Croatia went to the market on the same day, it shows not what happens a few months ago, but every day it is seen. Today, the risk premium for Serbia is almost 1-1.5% higher than for Croatia or Hungary. That's what's true. Therefore, do not show what is the market that is changing in a given or second moment as a key quality and support of this budget, because it can change very quickly. We'll look at things in continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5455	I must point out that it is my right to assess when the replica loses its meaning. That's why I reacted. What did you want, Mr. Guric? (Boyan Djuric, from the place: Can you turn on the microphone? ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5456	So, about what I was going to say, you'll find out, time will show, as you yourself said. It's my right. I didn't answer the line, I have time for a parliamentary group I want to use. I'm not going to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I really appreciate your education and your military career, but this isn't JNA, this is the National Assembly, and you have to act a little bit more liberal here. Mr. Dinkic, you've opened a key question for me about the effective use of credit, or...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5457	Mr. Djuric, I really don't think I'm here to paint JNA. I'm trying to respect and respect you as much as possible and to be correct. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: I spoke to the Minister about the amendment. It's an insult to me if you're implying I'm conducting a grill here. I don't think I'm doing it at all. Please take care of yourself as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5458	Please, don't make it unclear, I didn't imply that JNA was organized on the principles of dictatorship. Don't, I would never say that. So you opened a key question – how will a loan be used in this case for the railway, or how will the railways actually function as a state-owned company? That's why I just insisted so much on it, I'd say, a scandalous appointment of the director of "Serbiagas" just before the adoption of the new law. In what way will you provide a different practice in railways or in any other domestic state-owned enterprise, which will realise these favourable loans you are talking about? That's why we're so worried. You have announced to us the law on departementisation, or on public enterprises, then you are in the same way, as you did in the years behind us, in an even more brutal way, because you are doing so in the evening of the adoption of that law. You appointed Mr. Bajatovic and thus prevented the application of the Law to the case. What are you going to do with the railroad? Whether more efficient use of credit and all other investment will provide you with the railway business of this kind of law on public enterprises that you propose, where there will be several people on the Supervisory Board who, as the law you have proposed, must have the basics of knowledge in the field of law, finance or corporate governance. I agree that this debate may have become too petty at some point, so we are discussing the tenth part of the percentage, but these are much more important, because these millions, which Mr Djelic now correctly mentions, actually end up through inefficient business. You have railways, which these days are abolishing, in co-operation with Croatian railways, which are in, more or less, the same condition, terrible, as "Serb Railways", international trains. I'm not sure what you're going to end up getting into effectively with that $800 million loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5459	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5460	I'll use the MP's time. This topic is certainly highly virulent, as used by a party colleague of the minister, defending indefensibly under the second amendment. However, I would try to bring this down to the level of ordinary figures and I would like the minister to take a break, which the chairman will probably determine soon, answers whether the Republic of Serbia has received two billion dollars in loans from the Russian Federation over the past two years or has received a total billion dollars. If she received two billion dollars, then the state of Serbia is in charge, i.e. total debt to the Russian Federation will be two billion. If she got a billion dollars in total, that means yesterday's painting for getting a Russian loan is a free farce, because the loan was already granted once, a year and a few days ago. So, the very simple question is, did the Republic of Serbia get two billion dinars or did it get a billion? If she got a billion, last night's loan allocation is a simple farce and eye blurry to the citizens because of good relations with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5461	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Dr Janko Vesenovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5462	Thank you Minister for accepting this amendment and thus proving that the opposition reads the Budget and Other Laws very carefully, but would I ask him to answer the question whether we received two billion loans or a billion? Since the previous question has not been answered, if it does not, I will believe that yesterday's release of the new loan was just a hoax.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5463	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5464	You probably read carefully, but you don't listen very carefully. I've already answered that to your predecessors, and then you accuse me of being the only one who speaks. I want to save time so you can talk more, because I already said it once. I said quite clearly and loudly, when I answered the previous questions of the MPs, that we provided $800m of rail credit, which was signed by both government and government, and this is now an official loan, which goes into realisation, and that we provide for an additional billion of dollars in next year's budget law as a direct debt to the budget, which was reached by the political consent of President Putin and Nikolic, and that the technical negotiations of the two finance ministries would start in the next period. In other words, Tomislav Nikolic spoke yesterday with the Russian Federation Finance Minister, but with Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Mr. Rogozin. He told him once again what the two of them agreed, Putin and Nikolic, that we would also receive the billion-dollar loan and that was informed by President Nikolic. I don't see anything wrong with that. I think it is the president's duty to inform the citizens of Serbia that the Russian Federation wants that, other than $800m for the railways, which have already been approved and confirmed at the government's session, to grant us another billion for the budget. That's what I said earlier, but if you want me to speak for you, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5465	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5466	I'd just like to confirm what you said, a little clearer. So, Serbia didn't get any new billion dollars in credit yesterday. The press misunderstood or misrepresented the information. You yourself said it was just a conversation about the possibility of talking about a new loan. So it wasn't approved, as the press said, any new credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5467	The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Igic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5468	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the amendment that we have brought together by my colleague Nenad Popovic and I concerns Article 5. The bill, in fact, refers to the distribution of funds within the Agricultural Land Administration, where we propose that the funds that are defined for the Atarian roads be partly shifted to the part relating to the canal network. Why do we propose that? We all know that lately and in recent years, maybe ten years, maybe even more, major climate change has also conditioned the changes that occur in agriculture. Given that there is already a certain channel network, especially in the Vojvodina area, and that it is in a catastrophic state, i.e. it has healed with cane, horn, chess, very often there is no water in it, we felt that this should be done urgently, and because farmers, no matter how much opportunity they have, do not have the possibility to irrigate due to the abandoned canal network. We had experience this year, when we had a great drought and when the big problem came not only from agricultural production, but also from the production of cattle, beef production, above all. So we don't have enough food, and we let what we sow generally fail. What is it that the argument given by the Government on this amendment, which we absolutely cannot accept? The explanation is based on the fact that by investing more resources in Ataric roads, we will preserve the value of agricultural products during transport, especially fruit and vegetables, so we will have neither fruit nor vegetables unless we have a water system and we do not have a well-organised sewer network. That is why our proposal is to invest a little more funds in revitalising the channel network first and foremost in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5469	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5470	I support my colleague's amendment. This morning I asked the Republic Government about the problem of channel maintenance, about the problem of maintaining flood-resistance. This amendment by a DSS counterpart absolutely shows that we have a major problem in the state of Serbia. If the problem is in Vojvodina, you can imagine what the problem is under Sava and Danube, what is the problem in southeastern Serbia, where all these channels, all these dams have healed, where there is no maintenance process at all. Here is the second time today I warn the Republic Government that every rain will make great floods and then much more money will be allocated to the settlement of those areas in which it is now easier to invest. I would like to point out once again that after June, this republican government did not take over to fund the maintenance of misery and embankment under Sava and Danube. This means that central Serbia is unprotected from floods and every rain, every elemental disaster will cause great damage to these citizens. I'm asking another question. I support this amendment, but I ask the question – is it possible for the Republic Government to see nothing under Sava and Danube? Is it possible that the Republic Government doesn't see anything under Sava and Danube? Is it possible that this republican government is waiting for the first rain to flood the citizens of Serbia under Sava and Danube and that it no longer sees us, that we no longer warn them? I will be bothering you all the time for the interests of Southeastern Serbia and for the interests of central Serbia, as you have stopped paying for funding, channel maintenance and the misery of central Serbia since June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5471	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister Dinkic, representatives of the government, you know well that the DSS parliamentary group has proposed about 65 amendments to this draft budget law. Only three are accepted. We wanted first of all to help the citizens of Serbia and to change this text of the law. I'm surprised by one other thing, why this amendment of mine wasn't discussed on the parent board, which is the Committee on Sports and Youth. We seem to be the only country in the world that has the Ministry of Sports and Youth, and we don't have a Assembly Committee on Sports and Youth. Since we are going to have big competitions both in handball and many others, I expect the President of the Assembly to change the Rules of Procedure in the coming period, and that we will get one sports committee, which is in the previous period and how well and quality it worked. Our intention with this amendment was primarily to help with one basic sport, which is athletics, since athletics are on the rise, and that was seen in previous Olympic games. We have high-quality contestants. We wanted to create optimal conditions for them for future competitions. Now I want to suggest to you how the idea of making came about, that is, building this athletic hall. In fact, they negotiated three ministries – the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and came to the conclusion that an athletic hall was built at the premises of the former Banjic Military Academy. The funds were provided, an idea project was done, a major project, all building permits were secured and went into the realization of the first phase. In the first phase, 175 million dinars were to be spent, and only 40 million were spent. So 25% of that amount. Where are the other funds? We don't know, and that's probably a question for Mr. Wolf. In the second phase, 300 million dinars were to be spent and should have been finished by the beginning of 2013. It's almost 2013, and those halls are gone. Our athletes are still training in warmer areas today, going to prepare in Spain, Tennessee, but they're coming back to us where the temperature is below the minus and they can't keep up for some future competitions. It is therefore a good opportunity for the Government to adopt this amendment, accept this amendment and to build an athletic sports hall by 2013, so that our athletes and prepare themselves and to organise competitions. But, Mr. Minister, we're interested in something else. How is it possible that the government has defined 178 million to build a new hall in Belgrade? In Belgrade, we have 15 sports halls, not counting the arena. So you have 15 sports halls and you're building a new hall. I'll remind you that we're all here at least declaring ourselves advocating even regional development. The sports hall has neither the rich nor the Little Black, nor the Major, nor many other places. What's with all the embezzlement all the time? Do you think there are no talented children in those small areas in the interior of Serbia? You're damn right it is. Let us give them a chance, accept these amendments, and we from the DSS will vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5473	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5474	We didn't accept the amendment not because we're against the athletic hall, but because the Ministry of Sports wants to build both the athletic hall and the basketball hall. We really don't want to interfere with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Youth and Sports' work. There's another fact. Unfortunately, what is defined by the decisions of this Assembly, on the government's proposal in the capital investment budget, has not often been spent for years. There was enough funding for the athletic hall this year, and for which reason this project has not been realised, this should be determined. I don't believe there's as much work here for Vice President Vukic as there is inefficiencies in making these plans, in obtaining building permits and all, which is why many of the projects that have been provided with funds in the republican budgets have not been achieved in recent years. I remember 2006 of better times, when we had surpluses in the budget, so we defined, say, funds for modernising the theatre "Duško Radović" and for children's theatre. It has never been realised, not because they were not money in the budget, not because MPs were not making good proposals, but because later, whoever was supposed to realize it, for one reason or another, did not. The same is true of this athletic hall. There's been enough planned resources. One piece has been realized, and a large part will not be realised by the end of the year. Under the current law, these funds cannot be transferred in the following year, and therefore we have changed the Budgetary System Act and made it possible to plan capital investments several years, so that if there is a problem in one year with realisation due to public procurement, planning and everything else, we do not have to repeat these public procurement three times. The Ministry of Sports argues that the plan is to build this athletic hall which is very important, I agree with you, by 2014. They provided for these funds in the multi-annual investment plan, but they also identified the funds for some other projects that are important to them, and we did not interfere with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5475	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5476	When it comes to this hall, all building permits are secured. Mr Dinkic, the construction began and 40 million out of 175 million, as foreseen in the first phase, was realised and that is 25%. Let's talk about other things, which is – why Belgrade needs a new basketball hall, when there are 15 basketball halls in Belgrade? Why did the Sports Ministry predict that another hall was being built in Belgrade, and so many places in Serbia, I said earlier, smaller places, do not have sports halls? Let's give these kids adequate conditions to play sports. Not only are children talented in Belgrade, they are also down in southern Serbia, in southeastern Serbia and in many other places. That was the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5477	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5478	Your Honor, General, the Honorable Chairman, I support my colleague from the DSS, and I support my colleague from Leskovec. Generally, this government has a major problem with Southeast Serbia. Southeast Serbia does not see at all in any capital investment. Southeast Serbia is interesting for the ruling coalition only when elections are, when people are supposed to vote for them. When the government is supposed to return to Southeast Serbia, nothing. I ask you, what of the capital investments are foreseen for Nis? Next year you're 1,700 years old from the Milan Edict in Nis. What kind of capital facility are you going to make as a republican government in Nis? Or you'll just come with your columns that citizens can't intercept, take pictures there, eat some cavape and say – 1,700 years of Milan's edict is marked. I ask this republican government - what did you people predict for Nis because 1,700 years had this Serbia plotted on the map of the world? The Pope is also scheduled to come to Nis, and all religious credentials are scheduled to come, and in Nis darkness, from city leadership, to republican government, all of you are silent. Everybody shut up. When next year comes, I will criticise you every day, because you will have one great opportunity to promote Serbia, one great opportunity to promote Nis you will not be able to take advantage of. I urge you not to see this through this budget, but by government regulations, you can define something nice and capital investment for Nis. Leskovac, really a colleague begs for his city. Leskovac, Vranje, your Vlasotins, Mr. Minister – what did you bring in your own capital investments? So, don't remember the southeast just when the election is. When the election's over, we don't care about the southeast. We're looking at what we're doing here in Belgrade, watching what we might do in another neighborhood. So together we all have to fight for the interests of the poorest part of Serbia. The question is – what do you intend to do in Nis in 1,700 years of Milan's edict?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5479	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5480	You're wrong, we've provided considerable resources to mark this great jubilee. In Nis, it will be built, as in all other cities of Serbia, in all regions of Serbia. We will be providing funds already this year, from the current budget reserve, at one of the two next meetings of the government and the culture minister will inform you about it. Also planned are the construction of sports halls across Serbia, from Valjev, which should finally be given a modern sports hall. Through Jagodina, which should receive a modern pool, sports arenas in Nis in the coming period, arenas in Kragujevac, sports halls in other cities. I cannot tell you about this in detail, but take advantage of the opportunity when the Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government comes, it has detailed records of all projects in all regions of Serbia, including projects in Nis. Of course we have to mark Nis in a decent way this great day, so we'll do it. I expect you'll be pleased with that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5481	The 5th amendment was submitted by National MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a secretary of the province, Zoran Radoman.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5482	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I address you on behalf of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, who has tabled three amendments to the bill, and I suggest that this amendment is agonizing to understand the essence of the amendments to the proposed amendments. In this way, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina resorted only to the legitimate means, which is that it reacts to the proposed law by means of the amendment to provide the budget of the AP Vojvodina with the rights and obligations laid down in Article 184(4). The RS Constitution on the minimum volume of the budget, i.e. enables the implementation of the constitutional requirement that three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget be used to finance capital expenditure. The substance of the amendment is the proposal to amend Article 6. The proposal establishes the quality structure of revenue and receipt of the AP Vojvodina budget. The quality structure of AP Vojvodina's budget revenue requires compensation for fictitious revenues such as transfer funds for employees in education, units of local self-government according to which the province has no legal obligations with 43% of the revenue from the excise duties charged on the territory of Vojvodina, which would amount to 32 billion dinars. Since these transfers are intended to finance the republican responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina and where they would account for over 66% of the province's budget, the province's budget will not be able to comply with the constitutional provision to use three weeks of the province's budget to finance capital expenditure in Vojvodina. If we start with the bill, or amendments made by the Government's tax revenues, at an amount of 837 billion dinars, the minimum volume of the AP Vojvodina budget in 2013 would have to be 58.59 billion dinars. For capital expenditure in the following year, the province's budget must be set aside by the Constitution prescribed three weeks or at least 25.11 billion. The structure of the province's budget budget proposed to the 6th law does not provide a constitutional minimum for capital investment. The budget of the province of Vojvodina is missing 10 billion dinars, and 43% of the excise duties charged on the territory of the AP Vojvodina are required. This amendment provides respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for a prescribed standard relating to the scope of mandatory allocations for capital expenditure, and I do not believe that respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should be questioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5483	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5484	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has opened a rather large debate today on amendments of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and SVM, of course, supports all three amendments. We are sorry that the government has rejected each and every one of them in its explanation, and this is a key amendment. I will try to sum up the essence using the time of the parliamentary group, as well as the authorised representative if necessary. Currently, Article 6 states that the AP Vojvodina budget accounts for 18% of the income income of citizens and 42.7 for the profits of the company achieved on its territory. This proposal calls for, in addition to this budget, the AP Vojvodina to be added and part of the excise revenue, other than excise duties on imports, amounting to 43% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, what's an even bigger problem, which we talked about this morning, are your transfers. Some have used very figurative expressions that the budget of the Vojvodina is actually one flow boiler where some money comes in the next day that they have to pay off. Mr. Minister answered my question. He mentioned twice that as far as the transfer funds for the financing of salaries in education are concerned, they have been so since 2003. For the question – why non-purpose transfers to local self-governments are there, there is no answer. The proposal of the AP Vojvodina Assembly is that the AP Vojvodina budget provides transfers, dedicated transfers to finance expenditures for higher education employees, transfers for entrusted jobs in accordance with the law establishing the competences of the AP Vojvodina, but also non-purpose funds, this is probably the only way in which it could have been proposed, to provide funds from the constitutional minimum of 7% of the RS budget in 2013. There are several reasons or arguments in the government's explanation why this amendment is not accepted. An international experience is mentioned. Mr. Minister said there is no example in international practice that excises or certain species are not paid at the central level. We have heard in various reasons that there is nowhere in the world or that the government violates its own constitution by not considering three-seven capital expenditures. On the other hand, a question that is not mentioned here at all, just mentioned in 2003, why transfer to local self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5485	Consensually. 27 and 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will inform you that the break will be from 15.00 to 16.00 hours in an hour. We'll continue our work at 1600 hours. At the same time, I remind you that today, from 16:00 to 1900, MPs will be asking MPs questions to the Government in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will extend the work after 18.00 hours, or after 19.00 hours, by continuing to work on the agenda of the session because of the need to propose acts from the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience. He has the word Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5486	Although I have already responded to this during the first amendments, I am simply very impressed with the tenacity of which you repeat one thing, so I asked myself this – since this budget is methodologically done towards the AP Vojvodina in exactly the same way as before for 2012 as before for 2011, when these transfers to schools and when the funds going to the Vojvodina municipalities are calculated, I have to ask you, too, Mr. Radoman – what happened in these three months? Have the Duke's schools seceded from the Vojvodina, and now you want a different treatment for them? Have the duchy municipalities secededed from the Vojvodina? Is Kanjiza no longer in Vojvodina? Is Sombor no longer in Vojvodina? Is some other local self-government duchy not part of the Vojvodina, if the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic treated it in exactly the same way as you are now, except that they were giving less money? We treat methodologically in exactly the same way AP Vojvodina was done by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, who was supported by Bojan Pajtic, the current president of the AP Vojvodina. I don't know if the current Bojan Pitiæ is different from former Bojan Pitiæ. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic deployed this methodologically exactly the same – transfer to schools, transfer to local self-government, mutilation in these minimum 7% according to the RS Constitution, separation for the province. At the time, former Bojan Pajtic did not consider submitting initiatives to the Constitutional Court, nor did the former SVM. Perhaps the new Bojan Pajtic and the new SVM are now running another policy, but it should be called the real name. It's politics. It's not an economy. It's not the Constitution. That's not right. You have the right to another policy, but call it the right name. If you didn't mind for years, since 2003, that transfers to schools stand out in exactly the same way, and now you say, "We've been wrong for 10 years, we've now seen things differently, and now we want to, even if they were former SVM, former Bojan Pajtic, I don't know what you've been to the IRS. Anyway, we haven't changed anything into human methodology. We've been wasting days and hours talking about a couple of political issues and it has nothing to do with the Constitution of Serbia or with public finances. In doing so, I must say what is the fact, we fully respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The new government stands out more than the previous one, but since you keep telling the truth, I have to tell you the truth. I'm so sorry we're wasting our time with the MPs. I'd like to hear arguments about other things. We've discussed this so many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5487	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5488	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I don't know who he doesn't listen to. I've been here since this morning and I really listen very carefully. Now I haven't focused my exposure on school. I focused most on my exposure to transfers to local self-government. Why? In the past few years, when we adopted the budget, a few things have changed to this day. I must admit that I can't remember telling you now the date, in May or June of this year, is the Constitutional Court's decision to declare the anti-constitutional 22 powers of the AP Vojvodina. It's one of the anti-constitutional powers of the Constitutional Court, and I don't want to go politically into who agrees, that's exactly the area of local self-government. That's why we disagree with this methodology that you've been talking about. What is extremely significant and what has not been said is that there have been current transfers to the Fund of Capital Investments worth 3.7 billion dinars which are now missing in this budget. As far as SVM is concerned, all witnesses are that SVM is very often, very alone fighting for the Constitution and guaranteed 7% and 3/7 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when making each budget, rebalancing. You know that one year we didn't vote in favour of the budget unlike the others, but we're extremely glad that the rest of us are joining us in this fight right now. You can't accuse us of doing politics, because we deal with numbers and numbers every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5489	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5490	Once again, I ask you to discuss what you want, to make the state more in debt or to stop the growth of public debt. You mention the Capital Investment Fund. You know how money was provided for the Fund for Capital Investments in the 2012 budget? By tasking the Republic of Serbia with three or four billion dinars by broadcasting republican bonds. It is now being paid off by all Serbian citizens. I didn't say anything about that. If you want to stop the growth of public debt, then say - we want to stop the growth of public debt, not make us run a responsible fiscal policy on one hand, which is justifiable and what we want to do on our own. We're welcome to have every critical thought on the subject. On the other hand, you're asking us to work for the Capital Investment Fund. That's not right. I don't think it's right to argue so little about what the Nis MP has raised as a question, and it's about 1700 years of the Milan Edict. We spent hours discussing a subject that was artificial. It's your right. I've been at your disposal the whole time there's a budget debate going on. I'll answer all the questions. If you want to talk about this any further, I'll be there. I think there are a lot more important topics than this, because this is artificially made. If it were a real question, I'd be ashamed to answer. Since it's artificially challenged, it's a political issue and it needs to move to the field of politics. The assembly is a place where political debate is being held, but this has overcome those frameworks.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5491	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5492	First of all, this amendment does not mention borrowing. It is mentioned, or suggested that part of the excise income of 43%, means I read, belongs to the AP Vojvodina. I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you've had a chance, I'm glad this amuses you, when last week the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly explained the proposal of the AP Vojvodina Assembly on amending the Budgetary System Act said what I'm about to repeat - we just want to respect the Constitution. He showed it very vividly. There were two glasses on the table. One was full, and one was almost empty. No matter what the budget is, we just want 7% and 3/7 of it. We don't want it to be anything more, but we want to respect what the Constitution guarantees, the highest legal act. In this case, if tax revenues are 18.8 billion, we know what 7% of that is, and we know what 3/7 of that is, that's all we're asking. Nothing more, and I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5493	Thank you. Mr. Radoman has the country's finance secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5494	Thank you. What they would say is, the truth is, the Vojvodina budget won't go into this 70.5 billion unless the minister knows something, and what we'll find out later. So far, that's not what the bill says. Why now? I already said that. Among other things, because the Budgetary System Act has been amended where the basis is significantly reduced. The province's revenues have been significantly reduced. As for the Fund and the debt to settle the liabilities of the Capital Investment Fund, it was intended to help construction in Serbia, but it is also true that the Republic of Serbia failed to transfer those funds, as Verica Kalanovic, when visiting the District government, said she had not come to the province because someone on the other hand spent more than what was planned in the Development Fund for these purposes. So these obligations were not respected, although there was talk of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5495	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5496	Of course, I'm reporting for the amendment. The Democratic Party of Serbia will not support this budget for many reasons. The issue of the Vojvodina budget opens here every time, which in the last four years was nine or ten times. Obviously, the budget is not a subject that we agree on, although it is a matter of respect for Article 184. The constitution, which says the Vojvodina budget should be 7% and three weeks should be capital investments. I don't understand why no law on funding the province's jurisdiction has been passed in four years. It was the same power on both republican and provincial level. It could have been the Vojvodina Assembly, as these amendments suggest, to propose that law to us, so that would be on the agenda and we would have discussed it. Second of all, the subject is the Budgetary System Act. We have proposed an amendment to the Law on the Budgetary System proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly, and based on that amendment, we can determine exactly how much funds go to Vojvodina and how much to other parts of Serbia. What needs to meet the budget must be respected by the Constitution, but the budget must also be fair for all parts of Serbia and justice must be respected. We will unconditionally defend the Constitution and unconditionally defend the right of the Vojvodina, but we will also unconditionally defend every part of Serbia. What Minister Dinkic didn't say today, at least I didn't hear, is that Serbia's budget is also a flow water heater. It's not just the AP budget of the Duke's flow water heater. From this budget, 820 billion are predetermined funds. These are employee expenditures, they are employees of the entire territory of Serbia – 266 billion. The expenditure on interest payments is, as far as I know, loans that covered the entire territory of Serbia. These are transfers to compulsory insurance organisations, various funds. They cover the entire territory of Serbia. It is social protection, which also covers Serbia's territory. These are the funds predetermined in both this and each other's budget. It's a total of 800 billion or 81-82% of the entire budget. What Minister Dinkic did not say is that for capital purposes, in the budget discussed today, there are only 46 billion dinars for all of Serbia. It's only 4% of this budget. That's ten times less than those three weeks. It would be fortunate if every city could have its own budget, if the Serbian and Republika Srpska Assembly could have their own budget, and any autonomy would have its own budget. There are no double-employees in education. There are no double capital investments. And that's the problem. The order of the move is - the law on funding jurisdiction, the second step - the Law on the Budgetary System, and then we will not discuss the budget each time to discuss those 7% of what matters or something else. That's the order we've advocated over and over again, and it has to be done urgently, so that we don't discuss 7% of the Vojvodina budget in every next budget debate. The constitution must be respected, but fair laws must be passed, so that each part of Serbia's territory gets as much as it belongs to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5497	I'm setting a break until 4:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5498	Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that the following members of the government were unable to attend today's session asking parliamentary questions: Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister, Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobbiæ, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Minister without portfolio. Before we start asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that apply to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. If, in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, certain facts require a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for responding to the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for the longest five minutes to answer the question. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and giving answers, thus not allowing replication and reference to the injury of the Businessmen. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the National Assembly, by, in turn, receiving first words from MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5499	I expected to see all the ministers here in the benches, including Mladjan Dinkic, because I was going to ask him two questions, not which I think are important, but viewers, businessmen. Is he coming? His absence has not been reported. (President: He will come. All right, he'll be here. Then I will use the right, Madam Chairman, to ask these two questions later, when Mr Dinkic arrives. Now I would like to ask Mr Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture. In Vinca, Šumadija, an association of fruit trees called "Jasenic Drops" was established, and they intend to narrow down the water of Jasenica and build a 350 ha irrigation system, which would water their plantations because they suffered serious damage this year. That water would be paid and it would be an investment that would be paid off in a very short time. Whether, Mr. Knezevic, there is a chance that the 2013 budget will finance this project with a pre-account value of 2,200,000 euros to 2.5 million euros. One question for the energy minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, concerns green energy. Mrs. Mihajlovic, does the Serbian Government have a strategy for developing renewable green energy, because people remind themselves that there are great opportunities and potentials to get from harvest waste, from green mass, from energy from the sun, wind, water, geothermal energy, significant amounts of energy that would satisfy not only the needs of agriculture, but would go into the network? Does the government have this program and is it ready to support it in any way? Thank you. I reserve my right, ma'am, that when Minister Mladjan Dinkic arrives, I refer very important questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5500	Thank you. You have another minute, so I'll let you. The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5501	Answer to Mr. Zahari Trnavčević. The strategic objectives of the Ministry of Agriculture in the coming period are to increase the agrarian budget to 5% of the total budget in 2014. Another strategic goal is the visibility of the environment for agricultural producers. The third goal is investment. In 2013, the estimated budget for agriculture is 48 billion 379 million, of which the purely agrarian budget we are talking about is direct payments in agriculture, in investments, about 45.5 billion or about 4.3% of the total budget, which means that we are slowly approaching that goal. Basically, 4.5 billion are investments, and some 3.3 billion are direct investments towards farmers precisely for these projects you've been talking about, so for irrigation. Yes, investment in technology, yes, investment in buildings and that will be our goals in the coming period. We expect that the Law on Incentives, which is likely to enter the assembly procedure somewhere in December of this month, solve both the problem and the way and the possibilities of competition, so that in 2013 there will be exactly money for these purposes and from the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5502	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5503	A response related to green energy, or to the government's plan. The energy development strategy, which was also written in 2004, is of course foreseen to intensify the use of renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, I must admit that in the previous period there was much more talk than was truly done. But what I can tell you from the point of view of the Ministry of Energy and the development of the environment, we are in the development of a national renewable energy action plan, which will be completed by mid-December, will be a public debate on this national action plan, which we have very clearly defined what can be used further. Serbia is rich in bio-mass, above all, bio-mass, and then, of course, both potential and small hydro-power plants, geo-thermal sources and all that can be used to obtain both electricity and heat. In addition to this national action plan, the special part is dedicated even to the heat, which should now change their input fuel and, say, use renewable energy sources, and the special section is also related to agriculture, because we think that agriculture can only be sustainable if it uses renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5504	Thank you. The word is Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5505	Thank you, Mrs. Zorani, Minister of Energy. I think this is good, and we're expecting this in half of December to see what that action program will look like. But he really needs to inspire all of our sources, that what we have, and they're not insignificant values, and that's primarily the energy of the sun, the energy of the wind, etc., that like other countries, we have it all. I couldn't accept Mr. Goran Knezevic's full answer because he didn't answer. Mr. Knezevic, I will repeat the question – can the association of the "Jasenic Drops" fruit can expect the 350 hectares irrigation project to be financially supported from the agricultural budget for 2013?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5506	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5507	They will be able to compete if they meet all the conditions and this project will be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5508	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5509	My question is addressed to the Minister of Information and Culture, and I am interested primarily in when a media strategy will be adopted. In particular, I will give you an example of a local list that informs primarily in Serbian and in languages of national communities living in the municipality of Kula. The Propagandic Center of the Tower has gone through a failed privatisation. The part ended in 2009, and the information house is still in the former landlord's debt, owes Sokoyu, there are unpaid earnings, owes the printing press "Dnevnik" etc. Now that there has been a change of government in the local self-government in The Tower, the big question is what will happen to this information centre and whether local self-government will renew the information agreement in the languages of the national communities and primarily in the language of the majority people. If that doesn't happen, that information house that exists for 30 years will have to be shut down. I am interested in helping the information centre, a media house that has existed for more than three decades, informs citizens in Serbian, Russian, Hungarian, Ukrainian and recently German. First of all, I'd like to ask the minister what is the strategy for these local, list and local media.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5510	The word is made by Minister Bratislava Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5511	It is in the making of a strategy that will be presented to the public by the end of December, there are five laws that will be in public debate. As regards the law on public information, the law on electronic media, the law on radio and TV services, the law on foreign funds and public information, the law on the illicit unification of public and public ballots. New regulations will also be introduced when the status of "Tanjuga" is determined. It is necessary that all of this, it will enter into the assembly procedure, must be completed by 31 March 2013, and that is the deadline. As for local services, the state will also jump in, and when it comes to these local services, especially when it comes to minority radio stations, where we have programmes in minority languages. I'd like to leave this behind, so I'd like to answer you in more detail when it comes to The Tower, and I'd like to ask you within eight days to give you a detailed answer on all this and how the questions of local services will be addressed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5512	Here you go, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5513	I'd like to forward it to you in writing, since there's some data you might be able to answer, and I'd like you to give me some answers to some more questions that I'd like to ask, so I'll be free to deliver it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5514	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5515	Dear Ministers, the chairman, co-worker, I must at first say what has shaken Serbia, which is today's liberating sentence to Ramush Haradinaj, which is another slap and mockery to the victims of justice and Serbia. Following the acquittal of Croatian generals, a new shock came today. In order not to live in shock, but to do something about it, I would ask the government's representatives, since there have been announcements in recent weeks that a special session of parliament will be held to discuss the causes and consequences of the war, which will discuss the return of Serbs to centuries-old hearths, their compensation, the repair of lives of displaced and refugees, and the measures of the government that will bring the truth about the criminal, ethnic cleansing committed against Serbs, to the international community. In addition, since it allows me to do so, I will say that the SPO and the DHSS and this is within the second issue, supports the fight of Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic against crime and corruption and if it is the opposition, but that is why we are interested, when, what time and what content it will be, the law will reach parliament, or the proposal for a law on the origin of the property. I think that this law, which will support both the SPO and the DHSS, would provide us with the prerequisites for a better fight against corruption and thus determine who is in previous years and how he gained wealth, because he could not prove the origin of his own wealth. I will ask the question and the Minister of Agriculture, since the previous period has been announced and released in public debate, at least to professional associations, as far as I'm aware, the bill, the new one, about agriculture, can this debate be more transparent, because we know that in recent years this activity has functioned in an unorganised way when we talk about agriculture, so I ask if it is possible through means of public information, since there are many agricultural holdings that are not involved in the association, is it possible to conduct a debate in this way more transparent? I also said the last time we spoke about this law that you would have the support of the SPO and the DHSS, if it is brought on the interest of agricultural producers and Serbian peasants, to get out of the framework of party debates, to enter into the framework of wider debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5516	Who wants to answer from the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5517	As for the second issue, when the proposal for a law on the origin of property is our obligation to the citizens of Serbia, as part of an anti-corruption map that we have made to adopt an anti-corruption strategy, the first proposals for an anti-corruption strategy have been completed. As for the proposal for a law on the origin of property, I expect that by the end of January, don't hold my word in seven or ten days, but by the end of January, at the latest in early February, it will be in front of the MPs in the National Assembly. As far as the first question is concerned, of course we do not have a control role over parliament, but it is the other way around. Parliament has several initiatives, parliamentary initiatives, and I expect this to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have done everything we could in bad and difficult moments for the country, for something that happens I am convinced that everyone understands, not by our guilt, although we, sometimes as a people, and when we drown, will argue about whether to swim a Kraul or a chest or a back, everything we could have done on every international forum. It seems to me that for the first time we have also received justification from all representatives of the international community that what is happening to Serbia today is something that is at least difficult, imagined and that Serbia has the right to its anger, anger, anger. He has the right to be angry with the terrible injustice, because it turns out that it's nice to kill Serbs, and we have accepted as a country that those who have committed crimes, I always think on their own behalf, but sometimes, calling on all of us, our country, our people, have accepted the obligation that these criminals respond and they respond to our courts and there are countless such procedures. I'm afraid that a message that lets everyone know that Serbian victims either didn't exist or didn't matter, because all those who were most responsible for the world's greatest ethnic cleansing after World War II in the action "Blash", "Storm", all those who had direct and clear murders that were put on them, therefore, individual murders that were imposed on them, 32 murders, of which 19 witnesses disappeared, and some are killed in a car accident. After all, to experience that they all seven days before that prepare you in Pristina to celebrate, that all our media know what the verdict will be, then it is clear that it is politics, not law, not justice, and the question arises – what is it that our country can take? I don't want to lie to our people and try to get political points on people's emotions, nor do I think we should lose them, nor do I mean anything in any way to separate one of us. I am grateful for your correct pace and for the fact that the largest number of Serbian citizens, the largest number of people in Serbia behave responsibly and that people want to be unique at this difficult moment. Don't forget, we seem to be the only nation who, apart from sports, can't find any reason to bring us together to celebrate. Tell me, what is this news from the world, from the country, any news that will bring us all together to celebrate something? We don't have it. It is good that at least we are in such bad and difficult news that comes to us, quite united, and therefore I will not react to the political comments of some political parties that are much more responsible for this situation today and the problems we have, rather than the responsible parties that make up the ruling coalition today. In any case, we have several proposals that we will seek in the talks with the EU, which concerns the rights of the refugees from the former Republika Srpska and Croatia, so, above all, to respect their property rights and I think that in our larger engagement, both in Europe and in the United States and everywhere in the world, at least for the shade, we will be able to improve their position, at least for the shade to fix that position. There is certainly a difficult period ahead of us, and during this difficult period it will be necessary to see with our heads above the water how and how to reach land, how and how to save all the citizens of this country and the whole country. In that sense, we're going to need your help, we're going to need to work together, we're going to need to try to make as much unity as possible, and the more united we go out in front of the world and in front of those who are our neighbours, and in front of those who want to be our neighbours. In that sense, the Serbian government will do what is reasonable, rationally, what it is, I would say, if you want me to use that term that maybe someone might not like, normally. The only thing that's possible, and that's the end of it, is that we don't become someone who's going to call over their fate, make a difference between grief and narration, because it's called in the grave, and this isn't a grave. This country has a future, let's see how to get the country out of the sink, the well, whatever you want, whatever you want to call it and how and how to go and make a different future for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5518	Thank you. Mr. Jugovic, would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5519	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5520	Here you are, Minister Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5521	The issue of transparency of the public debate of the Encouragement Act. The draft law was set up at the public presentation of the Ministry of Agriculture and 25 October of this year and the public debate lasted from 26 October to 16 November 2012, where everyone interested could by mail, e-mail and any other way to send their objections to this law or proposals to the Ministry. Also, state secretaries, ministerial assistants and I held about 20 public debates throughout Serbia. There was a public debate in Zrenjanin, Kragujevac, Chačka, Sombor, Trstenik, Valjev, Sjenica, Sremska Mitrovica, Bačka Palanca, Kralje, Vrnjačka Banja and Belgrade. Also, on 16 November, we held a final presentation on the conclusion of the public debate in Belgrade, where all relevant institutions, associations and producers were invited, where over 150 people were present and in a very constructive discussion, we came to about the best solutions, and I think that you will soon, in December of this month, have the opportunity to see for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5522	Thank you. Mr. Jugovic, do you want an additional question?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5525	First, I would like to conclude that I am satisfied with the government's response to the first two questions asked, and I will repeat, as I have spoken before, that the ruling majority will have support, even though we are opposition to our parliamentary club for all that is good. He would have asked Minister Dinkic, the finance minister, even though he wasn't there, although he didn't answer one question he asked a few months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5526	Just a little bit, Mr. Jugovic, you can now ask a further question to the members of the government you have already asked, if you think the answer is not adequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5527	Then I'll ask the extra question. The additional question, regardless of all the positive things we have heard, since the circumstances in which I am now, requires me to ask this question and the subject of this discussion is, why does Minister Dinkic give himself the freedom to be late with answers to MPs' questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5528	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5529	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a problem that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has 19 members. Here sits nine, and we have a written notice that there will be seven missing, which means we don't know why three of the ministers aren't here. I have just prepared my question for Mr Dinkic and Mrs Kalanovic, and none of them are here, I hope they will come. But in the absence of these two ministers, perhaps Mr. Vukic can answer me. There is a huge problem, which Mr. Pastor asked Mr. Dinkic about last Friday and he did not get an answer, as regards the recent amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and how they reflect on the local communities. The question is, how will the local communities survive next year, since these amendments to the Budgetary System Act have abolished the possibility of obtaining their own income from these local communities? Many of us are indeed in favour of decentralisation, and yet the government of the Republic of Serbia has suggested that the isolated revenues of the local communities be completely abolished and will thus prevent local communities from functioning in the current way or working at all. The question of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians is whether the Serbian Government may be planning in the near future, and we suggest that it propose amendments to the Budgetary System Act to solve this big problem. On the basis of the changes mentioned by all local communities on November 6th, so a few weeks ago, a blocked account, and on November 30th, their accounts will be completely shut down tomorrow. Are you aware of this huge problem, the real problem? As we know, city or municipal budgets have so far financed the salaries of local community secretaries and some of the material costs, such as water bills etc., but the other costs have been financed precisely from these own revenues of local communities that will not be now, which will be missing. They will, by applying this law in the future, make it clear to us that they will be monitored by higher levels of government, so that in fact the lowest levels of local self-government, which should actually be closest to the citizens, will be almost completely devised or disabled in their own functioning. By abolishing these accounts, the self-function of local communities is abolished. Many of the things that are important to citizens could be financed and regulated from these funds, and now the legal question is, what do you do in the case of previously concluded agreements on renting space or issuing land of local communities? It is clear that these revenues will flow into the vault, but does this mean that local communities can simply say goodbye to these funds? Are you aware of this damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5530	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5531	You will forgive me for not being fully directed to the financial aspect of what you have spoken about and I hope that Mr Dinkic, since he will arrive later, but to be correct, he is the most common in the National Assembly of all members of the government and will come again so that it may be possible for someone else to object to such a thing, not to him but he will answer you to the financial part. One thing I'm sure of. Neither he nor anyone else in the government intended to destroy the declared principle that spreads the decentralisations that we all advocate. All this stuff you asked as a question, I'd ask him to answer it. If not then I will answer you during the day, during the evening. I think he'll answer you, if not then something seven hours ago I'll be free to answer another question, to provide you with complete information, because I'm going to ask the competent authorities to forward the information to me, so you won't be left without an answer. Thank you. Otherwise, if everything was the way you presented it and I would, and everyone else in the country would be worried. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5532	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5533	I thank and really expect an answer, because what matters most is that this is so, that this is a real problem. Representatives of local communities complain that their accounts have been blocked for several weeks and will be shut down tomorrow. We do not know what will happen and therefore SVM proposes to amend the Budgetary System Act. Mr Dinkic has been here all day with us and for the past few days and it will be when we continue to discuss the budget, but today we have been working on amendments to the Budget Law, and now it is the last Thursday of the month, and therefore the parliamentary possibility is that ministers should be excused, of course he will come. I thank you in advance for that promised answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5534	The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5535	Dear Chairman, I address Prime Minister Knezevic. Minister Knezevic, why are you avoiding conversations and communication with representative trade unions? Especially with the Independent Union of Agriculture, Food, Tobacco Industry and the Water Industry of Serbia, in whose name I address you. Although it is known that veterinary sites, which are left to themselves after failed privatisations, are in big trouble, why are local self - administrations not allowed to organise veterinary services? Why are water organizations left to themselves to cope as they know and can? The PIK Vienna issue comes on December 20th on the agenda, will PIK Becay survive or will he go into liquidation? Why isn't the Department of Agriculture answering when it comes to this company? One of the largest combinations in this country, the PKK of Belgrade, which the Ministry of Agriculture is not speaking a word of. The issue of selling below the price of value to customers from the Middle East when the PKK entered the investment cycle and all obligations towards the state are settled regularly, and this is the same question for Minister Dinkic, why does the PKK sell below the price and affect houses that assess the decrease in the value of the PKK? I don't think it's a good idea that the largest political and opposition party, because of the disagreement, puts workers in a position to be collateral damage and what about the law on cooperatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5536	Mrs. Savic, you've run out of time to ask the first one, and then you'll get the possibility of an additional question. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5537	I will answer the second part because I know nothing about what you asked first and I will not interfere with what is the authority of other ministers. However, since I am fundamentally directed to conversations with Al Dahra, otherwise not some Middle Eastern buyers, it is one of the most powerful firms in the world, but in our country there is a custom to blacken someone up ahead and say all the worst. Now it would have turned out that someone wanted to kidnap it from workers, citizens or anyone, but then a great Robin Hood shows up to protect it from someone else. Let's not lie. If the PKB gentlemen, the PKK leadership and their chief, Dragan Gillas, will not sell it, it will not be sold. Don't tell us fairy tales, neither you nor anyone else about how someone who's gonna steal something, because we don't make combinations about sales and privatisation. We don't need money, we don't want any of us to steal anything. I'll give you the information, since last time exactly a month ago, one of the SVM's extraordinary MPs, I was left with one answer. We were accused of betraying a hectare of the country for 250 euros, and our couples could buy it right there, or rent it at a much higher price and have an interest in it. We took and calculated those 25,000 acres that were offered. Eight thousand acres has already been leased. Those 8,000 were issued at an average price of 68 euros. Just enough for Serbian citizens to know who's lying and who's really fighting for this country. I don't think that man was making it up. No, he meant all the best, but I'm telling you the facts, something very precise. That tells me something else about everything we face today. We'll never do anything, dear lady, and I don't have a problem saying anything to myself, to you, to anyone, we'll never be able to do anything in this country, and we'll never be able to do anything because and when you have the best intentions and when someone comes to you as a friend to buy something or buy something at a higher price, because there are few countries that have extra money at this point, no, we're a genius. Because a lot of people go from themselves. Auto-projection is a miracle. A lot of people know what's been going on in the past 10 or 15 years, and they say, "Look, this is a good opportunity for someone to steal something somewhere." I just want to tell you that no one planned to steal anything and that no one thought of stealing anything. We tried to see if there was anything we could do to make it good for our country, if he can – he can't, if he can't – he can't. No, no problem, no one's gonna make anyone feel better if he doesn't want to. So, no one in the PKK, no Mladjan Dinkic, no one from the Serbian government, is going to force and force anything like we're not going to force anyone around the Development Bank, so it was that we were right about everything we talked about "The Development Bank" and it came to accept what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or "The National Bank". You will-you will, you won't-you won't, no one will force you. Just don't let anyone play Robin Hood and don't let anyone play a very important protector of the interests of the workers because what we tried was in the interests of the workers and in the interests of the citizens of this country. That's all I can tell you, and we are involved in the robbery of people's property, in everything that some others have done and participated in, I just want to tell you that I will never accept the thesis – they're all the same, which I've been listening to for 10 or 15 years from ordinary people who aren't guilty because they think they've changed politicians, only the principle of robbery and kidnapping from the people was the same. That's not the case here, and it's not some people from the Middle East, but believe it or not one of the top ten firms in the whole world, so that's how it should have been told our citizens that they know it, so let people see if we're going to invest or not. If we don't, no problem there won't be any investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5538	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5539	There were a lot of questions. One of the questions is that I refused to talk to an independent union. You believe me, if you have that information, it's possible. I have information that in these 120 days I have received over 270 parties, which unions, associations of companies and talked to everyone. So if I might have missed it, it's possible it's my fault, too. Repeat the call and I'll show up safely, anywhere we can talk about it. You mentioned a lot of problems about veterinary cells, about the Cooperatives Act. Believe me, from the very beginning of the entry into this function, and me and my colleagues in the ministry have had a lot of work, especially with those inherited debts, after that with drought, with budget rebalance, with the budget, with the Encouragement Act, which is one system law, and these problems you mentioned are not since yesterday. It still takes some time, and it will all, believe me, soon enough. As for PIC Vienna, we are headed for all problems and, together with local self-government and the bankruptcy manager, we are trying to solve problems there. We even tried to make the deadline for the state land lease. We want to help, but I think the problem is huge and we need to systematically solve it, not just with "Pik Bece" but just as you mentioned with "PKB" and "Mitros" and "Green Pula", means, exactly one of the ways that Vice President Vukic spoke about earlier, to try to make big companies, foreign companies that have money, to allow them to have strategic ownership in these combinations and to bring money, to bring technology and knowledge, to allow them to do much better in the future than they have so far. It's obvious they haven't been doing well so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5540	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5541	I thank Minister Knezevic for his answers. I ask Vice President Vukic not to be angry with the workers and unions. I just submitted their request to ask and bring it out today, because taught by bad privatisations, people are simply concerned about their destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5542	Thank you. The word has a Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5543	I totally understand. I'm sorry, and everything I said wasn't about you, it was about all of us, because everything I said you hear every day on the street and you. I understand these people. Whom the snakes have eaten, and the lizard is afraid. There's no big philosophy here. I just wanted to tell you that we have this problem that whatever you're going to do, it's always the same approach – we know how it was, so now they've just changed their names, so it's all going to be the same. But it really isn't anybody's idea. I was there for those talks in Abu Dhabi. People asked us – what did you say that price was so high? Then we said – in Spain you pay more, in America you pay more. They said – we have better conditions there, we haven't taken samples of your country yet, we haven't done that yet, we have a better infrastructure, etc., and you have a lower price on average. We said, well, this is our proposal, this is just the beginning. We have only a memo, we have nothing more than that, no pre-contracts, no contracts, no responsibilities created, and you help us as friends. Then they said, because they really have extra money, they don't have a classic budget like we do, they have money by something different than they do with us and in other countries, then they said – if it's on a friendly basis, if it's to do with you, then we're ready to go in. You're lucky to be successful, which seems to you you might have done something for the country, and then come back and someone will welcome you to the knife, as if you've decided to rob it. It doesn't occur to us. If the workers are against it, the unions are against it, if everyone thinks it's not good, there's no problem, we won't get into it. So whoever thinks it's good or for any part, that's what we're gonna get into. If people think it's not good, it's not good for someone to pay us 250 euros per hectare of rent, while at the same time ensuring complete irrigation within the shortest possible time by the most modern methods. What I saw there, I didn't see anywhere in the world, and I went around the world. They live in the desert, and they have more flowers than we do, more grass, flowers, trees, everything. They have the best technology in the world. They have an entire city based on solar energy. You don't have a trafo station, but that's not enough for us either. Well, if it's not the one who doesn't want to, we're not gonna make anyone do it, because none of us have any personal use. It's our attempt to do something for our country and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5544	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5545	Although Minister Dinkic is not here, I will ask a question I intend to ask him and that he is there. In last week's session, Minister Dinkic said, speaking of pension system reform and the PIO Fund, it is not good to make investment, capital or funds. I wanted to ask him – what are his arguments for such a claim and did he have the opportunity to look at the projects that were made on the subject and did he have the opportunity to hear and read the short-term and long-term measures that the expert working group at the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund did and referred to the Government on this subject? If it's known that nearly 50% of the budget is going out for pensions, isn't the Fund's assets something important? It is known that some first-degree rulings by some of the Republic centers have decided to return to the jurisdiction of the PIO Fund, so I do not see the reason and I do not understand why such a claim has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5546	Thank you. Mrs. Savic, I must warn you that you have abused the law now. I didn't mean to interrupt. I've previously informed you of what you have the right to do in these two minutes. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5547	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you, Mr. Vukic, since you are practically the most responsible individual in the team of people who represent such an important institution here. I'm sorry President Dacic's not here. Since he regularly comes, we can understand the fact that he may have had some obligations that didn't allow him to be here today. First, I want to start by saying that I'm glad that at least at the end of the agony that lasts 20 years in something we almost agreed on. I'm talking about your comment today in The Hague. It would be better if more messages like that were said in the past, but it's not and it can't be changed. But precisely because of these different tones that come today from the position of government in our country, I want to ask you a question that is part of our daily activities here in the Assembly and which directly points to the unsustainable position in which your ruling coalition is located. I mean fighting corruption. First, it is always a problem for any authority that insists on fighting corruption, as it is understood that those in power who are not in power feel in some way threatened. This is not the case with the LDP, but whenever the executive power leads to the fight against corruption, not institutions that should exist for such a thing in every society, and I mean the prosecution, the courts, the laws on which this fight is based, and not on a personal feeling, then it produces a very bad atmosphere in the country. While you, Mr. Wolf, are fighting corruption, your government is passing a law that is the basis for systemic corruption. We're referring to the Public Business Act. I will not now point at the promises made in the election campaign, on the idea of departisation, depolitisation, on the signatures that have been put under some initiatives, on the signatures of all voters in the May elections, but I will ask you a question – what kind of country is allowed by law by such a concentration of power as foreseen by the Law on Public Enterprises? We in Serbia have 700 public enterprises. They accumulate 4.5 billion euros in debt, 50 are state and republican, and all others are local or regional. Really, I don't know if you've read that law. You have sent into parliament a law giving the right to a coalition of three ruling lists, a coalition of the URS, your party and the SPS. So, along with a commission to be formed by the government, it will execute the appointment of 700 directors in Serbia and put them under its own personal control, deriving both the system of local self-government, autonomy and concepts based on the constitution of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5548	Time. Which of the members of the government wants to answer? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5549	I don't agree with what you said, which, it seems, is also natural. I'll try to answer every comment you make in detail. You said that any government that fights corruption is problematic and that emphasizes it. On the contrary, I think that any government that does not stress zero tolerance towards corruption is problematic and that it was a serious problem. I will not call on what the citizens of Serbia, which is a citizens' perception very important, and based on this perception, indexes are calculated, and on the basis of this, among other things, draw conclusions from both international authorities and institutions, but I will call for an official report, let's say, the EU, which we believe is at least when it comes to this issue, which is that since 2007, the fight against corruption in the state of Serbia has been almost dead all the time, and that the perception of citizens in this matter has been worse and that this struggle was actually almost non-existent, perhaps a better expression that it died, than it was absolutely nonexistent. As far as the institutions are concerned, I am completely in agreement with you. What's our job is to pass laws, pass laws that won't matter if it's Vukic, Jovanovic or someone else, to bring a strategy in the fight against corruption, and that strategy will be adopted. Since everyone praises the Croatian strategy, I think ours will be equally successful, and hopefully better, not only on paper but in action, in implementation. I expect heavy reforms that we will have to go through early January 15th, not only in organised crime, and in the special prosecutor's office we will have a lead investigation. We'll have an investigation by prosecutors at all levels. I'm not sure, and I can't say that we're fully qualified to do it, in every sense, both financially and functionally, but I'm sure we'll make it through the next period. As far as the courts are concerned, unfortunately, we've had a few, not to say, bad or very bad, better to say imperfect reforms. It will cost us, and in the coming years we will try to, not by a hundred percent change, but by some serious reforms, there are talks and talks in progress, and the night before last, we have had a conversation in Brussels about this, and every day we try to create a system that would finally solve most of the problems we have in the judiciary and thus establish this institutional framework to fight corruption. As for personal commitment to a job, I think she's always welcome, but maybe we're different in that, especially if someone is able to look at things through institutions, through the competent authorities, not according to their own personal or political aspirations. Also, I want to tell you that I don't agree with you about, not interpretation, but attitude to the value of the Public Business Act. On the contrary, I think we've brought in several very significant standards that change the essential relationship and essentially reform public enterprises. It is a completely different choice of people who will be able to manage public enterprises, but I cannot accept at all the fact that some coalitions of parties or political parties will be able to appoint 700 directors. Well, 700 directors of public enterprises were appointed by you. I'm not talking about you personally, I'm talking about the ruling coalition. You've appointed all 700 directors in the previous period. You did not need a committee of independent experts to do this, according to the Law on Public Enterprises and the works of government members, but rather the party commissions did so. As three or four party representatives sit down, you've had every director. You're telling us today and you're giving us objections to something that works a lot more honestly and much better than it did a few months ago. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that the director of the largest public enterprise, which has always been a party register, will forgive me people for the expression, a party cow for sucking money in every regime, a man from a system that has never set foot in the SNS, let alone a member of it. Do you want me to show you a clinical center, where there were also party personnel, because everything in this country was party. Many things have been done and many things have been done not to be done in such a way. Let me not tell you about the Chief of Staff, and many other places in this country, which were also party issues, although it is not a public enterprise. In this country, we couldn't have a squad commander who wasn't set up by the party. To the commander, not to the commander of the brigade, or I don't know which units. Now here we have to listen and hear sermons from those who have placed those 700. You said 700 was total. Of which is at the level of the Republic of Serbia, I think, 70 or 80 public enterprises. Let me make a mistake, let it be 100, but it seems you haven't read, for the local level, the same rules remain, Mr. Jovanovic. This means that those 600 will be chosen just as you chose in the previous period. Nothing's changed. This applies to state-owned enterprises. Just please, we expect these independent experts and these people, but also the public, to have the strength of the arguments affecting the changes we're going to make to be better. And if there are bad things, if there are things I don't agree with, and neither do you -- of course there are, but it's always the price of political compromises, and I'm not running away from taking responsibility for something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5550	Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5551	Of course I read it right. Perhaps it's normal for you, Mr. Wolfie, to change a bad law on public enterprises by adopting even worse. It may be normal for the government in Serbia in 2012 to respond to the duchy parliament's initiative, which requires for itself the right established by the Constitution of this country, 7% of the budget, that it is true that Vojvodina belongs to 7% of the budget, but the Constitution does not provide for what the budget is? Three men who will set up three ruling lists will appoint all directors of state-owned enterprises in the country, so no one can complain about their decision. That's what the law says. They are not elected at the level of local self-government directors, as they have been elected so far, but, again, a three-member commission. But these directors are not responding to parliaments in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Kragujevac, but to a resolution minister in the republican government, who can replace them in case they do not like their statement. Where's the public? Where's the competition? Where's the market economy? These are all elements that create ahead from Serbia a country where corruption will develop. You're talking about the fight against corruption stopped in 2007. That's right. The problem is, Mr. Vukic, you're in a coalition with those who have been in power since 2007. If we want to change that, then it can't be the exclusive right of the ruling coalition or one party in the ruling coalition, because then it turns into an atmosphere of haranga, and I'm sure in the meantime you became aware of it on the weekend of the raid, because there are people in this country who know that only a prosecutor can predict when he's on duty. We don't need that. I live in this country with my family like you and I want this to be an honest country. I want to separate work from work, the truth from lies. We've been fighting for it our whole lives. But if we set such a thing before ourselves as goals, we cannot pass such laws. We can't pass laws like that. I'm not going to list the names of the people you've placed in the responsibilities of all state-owned enterprises, but far from being professional figures, those who have spent their entire professional lives in these sectors, honor the exceptions, and especially that they are party non-engaged. On the contrary, they are very participatory, with the seal of the parties coming here. If we know all this, then I ask you how do you think you fight corruption when the basis of corruption is not a bad individual, but a system that gives that individual unlimited power? Imagine what this law will allow those who no longer have a board of directors or do not have a local parliament. How much of the fertilizer regulation will it be able to write? How much money will be able to shift into advertising media, when a party state like this didn't exist from Serbia until yesterday at this concept established by the Law on Public Enterprises? There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5552	Time. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5553	I'll try to answer that. I want to tell you, Mr. Jovanovic, that I can really agree with a lot of things. With one, I can't possibly form a party state now. Excuse me, the party state was formed much earlier, and this is the beginning, not the end of the party state's decommissioning. You've talked about a lot of people, and I'm telling you two of the biggest companies, Telekom and EPS. Neither of them is a public enterprise, but that's how we look at it. We have two extremely professional men, two of whom are difficult to find better biography in Serbia for any of them, and by Mr. Culibrkai of Mr. Obradovic. I'm talking about the two biggest companies. We're responsible for that. I'm proud of the fact that I can tell you here and in front of all the MPs. I'll read Article 21. The Public Business Act - Director of Public Enterprise appoints the Government for a period of four years, and what is a newspaper, it has been before, it has happened before, and now it stands – and on the basis of a public competition. For the first time, we will have a public competition as a very important institute. On the other hand, there's something else, which if you ask me, I'm not completely satisfied because it may not be done until the end, but it won't be able to be a high party official, nor will it be able to perform party duties. I'm sorry, that's progress compared to what we had, not a setback. It's something that's very important. I would like to read you the second position of Article 21. – Directors of a public enterprise whose founder is AP or local self-government units is appointed by the Authority designated by the Statute of the AP, i.e. local self-government for a period of four years on the basis of a public competition. So, I was right, Mr. Jovanovic, that's all I wanted to read to you. Can he take a shift? So far, we have had the possibility that a minister, in accordance with his arbitration will, unless he likes the situation in a certain local self-government, contributes to the disbanding of local self-government and that you have to go to elections. That possibility has existed so far. I have to tell you, I don't see any worse norms here. I can tell you that I agree with you that maybe it's better, that maybe it could have been done eventually. But all the norms I see are better than they were. Everything that has been realized in practice is better than it was. That's the facts. Is it good enough? It's not. Is everything done and implemented to the end? It's not. Is that progress compared to what we had? Yeah, it's big progress, and it shouldn't be hidden, and it shouldn't be afraid of people who belong, and I resent SNS MPs, because there's some initiative sometimes from those who don't belong to the ruling parties -- it's attacking them, and then somewhere around here there's fear -- let's not get involved in it, who knows, maybe it's true, maybe it's all the same, and it's not all the same. Don't let me show you the results of Telekom today, how and how he was destroyed in the previous period. Don't let me show you the EPS results. On the day when a man with ten times better biography than the CEO of the EPS who was up to two months ago, ten times more professional than him said it was a destination for institutions, and here was a destination for alcoholic beverages, after spending tens of millions of dinars on cognac, whiskey, whiskey. There are some drinks I haven't even heard of. They didn't pay for it with their money, they paid for it with state and people's money. I ask now – why were they professional? What did these geniuses do for a living? Are there any Scottish malts? I didn't know all that existed, but I guess that was their team. The bottom line is what we want to achieve, is it ideal, and thank you for that. I am truly grateful to you because we will pay even more attention and correct some of that. I agree with you that everything is not ideal. Of course not. You know how it goes in politics. I don't have to tell you because you've been in politics for a long time. Is something better? It is certainly better both in formal legal frameworks and in life and in relation. Is it better for ordinary people? Is that what they feel? No, and it won't feel much longer, because we've all been involved in destroying this country for the past 15 or 20 years. We're very different about who contributed to this, but now someone has to see if we can move forward or we can't. If we can't let someone else come to rule the end of the story. As for the fight against corruption, I end up, I apologize for taking too much time, I haven't said it once, and I'll repeat that this fight isn't easy and it won't be easy. I am only sure that institutions will eventually be created and that will be Serbia's victory. How will it all end in the short term? You can't know that, but the only thing I guarantee you is that with full commitment, we're going to call on your first sentence in the second sentence, with a lot of work, a lot of effort and a lot of energy, we're going to try to deal with it. That's the thing that we guarantee, Mr. Jovanovic, and there will be no pardon and there will be no politics, no politics, no politics, no anything else. There will be the creation and legal frameworks, but also the creation of such awareness among all people that they do not exist protected and that it does not matter whether one is a politician and whether it belongs to one, the other or the third, the fourth or the fifth political party. That's the kind of Serbia I stand for. While I can take part in this. When I can't, then you take the wheel and do what you think is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5554	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, would you like to make a statement?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5555	Trans-naphtha, Elektro Network, Kolubara, Serbia's PTT corridors, Jugoimport, Serbia's Serbs, all high-ranking party personnel. Today, the vice president of one of the ruling parties, members of your coalition, was elected director before the law came into force. The key question, Mr. Vukic, is whether we have a government that is committed to one goal or not, and because of that I say that personal missions, since they are as personal ones in the domain of a personal domain, if we are talking about the rule of law, a regulated society, then this law returns Serbia to the 19th century, it feuds. There is a member of the Law on Public Property, which we amended in the previous session, which obliges everyone to publish a public competition. Who forms a commission that chooses those who report to the competition? Are there defined criteria, and is it even realistic to expect that something like this to happen because we have the facts that I have just mentioned to you? Your assessment is that it's about great frames. Someone's gonna say they think you're wrong. We think you're wrong to keep all the public enterprises in V.D. the fact that it's a mistake to carry out radical cleaning at every level, dealing with people, that your government is wrong because it hypnotizes the public through the tabloids it controls. I would have been concerned if I were you every morning when I opened the paper and I saw members of the largest opposition party branding themselves as criminals and sitting in a government where my coalition partners were all those who were coalition partners of that very party. I'm not interested in DS. I trust you're not as interested in the DS either. As long as we don't get the institutions, and until we're committed, we won't be successful. (President: Time. ) We created institutions in 2001 and it was stopped in 2003. That's what's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5556	The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Knezevic, on behalf of the farmers who spoke to me. Can you, Mr. Minister, help us resolve the issue of low water in the irrigation canals? In the Kovin municipality, which has about 42km of the Danube coast, the irrigation canals are empty because the water pumps return to the Danube. The canals include probes, maximum and minimum quota regimes are established, and HE Đerdap from the command centre includes and excludes pumps, and water supply is unfortunately kept at a minimum in pump stations. This makes it impossible for our farmers to use gulf systems, and worse still, this demotizes businesses to acquire gulf systems, although they are very interested in it. They ask a simple question – where to stab a hose when there is no water in the canals?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5558	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5559	Unfortunately, I'm not familiar with this problem, I can't answer you, but trust me, you'll get an answer within two or three days. Let this association of farmers contact us at the Ministry, we will provide them with any professional and other assistance and we will even give them an insight into the documentation, see if this is planned in the coming period for some works and whether they have the opportunity to apply for these funds, which I mentioned earlier when I was responding to Mr Trnavcevic about the investment for the gulf systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5560	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5561	I thank you on my behalf and on behalf of the farmer. We'll send you a request with an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5562	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5563	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two brief questions. They're connected. First I wanted to refer to the minister of justice, Mr Selakovic, but he was, I suppose, prevented from attending the session. He's been here every time and don't take it as an insult to Mr. Selakovic. I will refer both questions to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The first question is, we have already mentioned them today, these two truly embarrassing, liberating verdicts by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, whose witnesses we have witnessed in the last ten days. The first refers to Markac and Gotovina and the second to Ramush Haradinaj. I don't think this thing is supposed to be just me, but the DSS can stay on this. Those judgments are embarrassing. They show they almost deny that crimes against Serbs have been committed, and in fact the matter is even worse, and the verdicts show that crimes against Serbs can be committed and that they can go unpunished. I repeat, we can't keep things on that. My question is this - is the government planning to take some measures, this time legal? I'll be something more concrete than we've had the opportunity to hear in the previous discussion, on this matter. So the maneuvering space isn't too wide, but it exists in some ways. What's this about? In the case of Markac and Gotovina, we have the ruling of the Board of Appeal and that is the final verdict. There are two possibilities for some things to change. The first is the possibility of reviewing, if a fact is found unknown during the trial and reported to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for the review of the whole process. Another possibility is that our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office initiates proceedings for some cases that were not covered by the International Criminal Tribunal's indictment. I think it's very important that these people, those individuals who were tried, don't get out of these processes completely innocent, because it's hardly possible that they're completely innocent. What I'm saying about Gotovina and Markac may be even more true for Haradinaj. These two possibilities exist. This morning's verdict is a search-and-rescue verdict. Maybe it'll be an appeal procedure, maybe it won't. If this is what I said, for this first verdict, it can be applied to the Haradinaj verdict. So that's a question for the government, for our services, for the material that we have as a state and of course for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. In the second round, I will develop a question that is particularly related to this second verdict, and it is about KIM and the famous agreement on integrated border management. The implementation of the agreement is announced for December 10th, perhaps a few days earlier. You know, the DSS believes that the agreement is absolutely unacceptable, that there is a fundamentally real limit where there is an administrative line between two parts of Serbia, that we will have customs officers, that we will have border police from those institutions. We believe that this agreement does not comply with the Constitution. The DSS launched an initiative before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality and legality of those provisions of the agreement. I ask the Government - why do you apply these agreements when they are clearly anti-constitutional? At the very least, why are you in such a hurry? In this procedure, we sought temporary measures. I don't know if the Constitutional Court will respond quickly to our proposal, I hope it will be soon. That could give you a little more room for maneuvering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5564	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5565	You said yourself that the maneuvering space is pretty tight in both cases. At this point, as far as the review of the Gotovina and Markac case is concerned, it's all in the hands of the prosecution. There was one case in the Sljivancan case. The defence then submitted a request for review, since a witness or evidence has appeared which has significantly affected the court council's decision to allow the audit. It's not up to us to review here, it's up to the D.A.'s decision. Whether, in the meantime, there's going to be some evidence that might significantly affect the process of review, but to be honest, I don't want to spread false expectations, that we're creating too much hope that this is going to happen. First of all, I don't think the D.A.'s gonna do it. Secondly, I believe even less that there will be this revision, no matter how unfair it may be. That's what we all agree on. We don't need to talk about how hurt the victims are, but we need to be realistic about the estimates and the anti-citation of what's going to happen next. In Haradinaj case, things are even simpler. So it's true that there is a possibility of a prosecution complaint, in a legal sense. I don't know if it's going to happen, but the whole case has been so guided since the beginning that every law student in the first year would have led this case better than it did here. Everybody admits that. It's not our subjective assessment. So, since Haradinaj was allowed to deal with politics, from not being convicted of command responsibility, even though crimes were committed where, under his control, the UCK had influence on that territory, but simply until there were cases, and that's what I want to explain. The tribunal's prosecution claims that no witnesses who testified formally were killed. That's true, but potential witnesses and persons known to have been eyewitnesses of the crimes that were committed have been killed. As far as the material is concerned, in the Gotovina case, we had 11 requests from the prosecution and everything we had was given and what was asked of us. In the case of Haradinaj, a response is given to 91 requests by the Prosecutor's Office. Of the 29 witnesses asked of us, we allowed them to testify before the court. We don't have any more than that, nor could we have done more. I hear comments, which are on the trail, I don't mean you, politicizing the entire case where the state is now guilty of why the court has made such a decision. As far as we're concerned, we've done everything we can. I'm going back to what you said was the maneuvering space in the course of the case, and now it's too small for us to do more than that, not to lie to people and create expectations that something might happen out of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5566	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5567	I thank you for asking. Mr. Selakovic is today the only SNS who is not present. I think all the other ministers were on their way or in great and significant obligations. Otherwise, I don't have to tell you, since you noticed it as much as I did. In the previous period when one minister appeared, it was good, not to be criticized when there were ten of us here. As far as the final verdict on Gotovina and Markac is concerned, I don't want to interfere with the prosecution's work, but I think there are certain different facts, or, if you will, new facts that might encourage the prosecution, but we will wait, because that's a legal aspect that we politicians cannot have a great influence on, as some other politicians obviously do, and that a major impact on the decision-making process in The Hague. What happened to us is a blow to all of us, but it really is a blow first of all to the basic principles of respect for justice and justice throughout the world. What may be good in our entire disaster, in our great torment, is the fact that the representatives of many governments of many countries, who with all their hearts and hearts supported the work of The Hague tribunal, are somewhat shocked by the final verdict of Gotovina and Markac and the first-degree verdict of Haradinaj. It may be an opportunity for us to use that position to take a different view of the situation across the Balkans, for a different view of Serbia. Of course, it's all something we might be able to do in the long term, and in the short term, as Vice President Ljajic said, we have a lot of problems and these problems will not be reduced. It has not yet been confirmed, but I think there will be a debate in the UN Security Council on a six-month report on the work of The Hague tribunal on 5 December. Today, a meeting of the state summit has been decided that I will represent our country. I'll speak there about how I feel about the work of The Hague tribunal, especially in the last six months. There will be at least an opportunity for all members of the UN Security Council to say what we think about the work of the UN tribunal, and we will make sure that this is not a political stance, but that it is backed by legal facts, that it is supported by the results of the UN tribunal's work. I'm sorry, those people whose death is burdened with Ramush Haradinaj have not been revived, these people have been killed. Someone was responsible for their death, and the people of the Hague tribunal obviously weren't interested in finding the culprit. Now the question is: Excuse me if it isn't Ramush Haradinaj, who is it? Or doesn't it matter that these people were killed? Or doesn't it matter that 300,000 Serbs were expelled from the Serbian province's space, because they're not people? Or doesn't it matter that 5,000 people were killed in one action, because they're not human? Or is that at least how someone experiences it or thinks it? Or is someone's lives worth more than the lives of Serbs? We know all that, but what is our problem, that's the question – what do we do? What is it that we can do at this point, other than raise our voice against injustice, that in every place, wherever we can, we can show our dissension and point to injustice? That's what we can do. For example, tonight, state television shows a scary, creepy movie about crimes in Kosovo. Now I'm asking you, Milos, do you think that maybe the government is responding at this point, who thinks he's running IBM, and would someone else be stopping it, if he could, in any way? It never occurred to us to stop it or anything like that. People need to know the truth and we don't want to lie to them when it comes to this. Yes, we have certain obligations. Yes, we have heavy obligations. There's no man from any embassy here in the international community that we talked to without saying how difficult this is for us. Because some have talked and negotiated that they will never implement it, that it's important just to win elections, to get candidate status, to clean up some advances, some DSS, some one, and that one, and that it can go on all the same. We've come this far – now go ahead and do it. What do we do? No matter what we do, nothing's good. If we say, sorry, we don't care, I'll tell you, we'll have a problem, we'll be hungry next year, in the right sense of that word. You can't tell me – just turn to Russia, because we have the best possible relationship with the Russian Federation. You heard Vice President Rogozin yesterday who said that they could only work with this government in the best way, even though we reminded them, in a very correct way, of signing an agreement with Vojislav Kostunica, etc. So we have the best possible relationship. I'm telling you, we can't survive. Serbia can't survive. Do you think any of us like that? If you're saying he's a traitor, say it. I don't mean you personally, nor did you say that. Say it, and I'll tell people, someone has to take responsibility and say it - we can't survive. We're ruined, our land is devastated. We're all ruined. So we have to try to protect, I would call it that way, and I would end up like that, to lose at least what we have to, and to get the most we can, in every sphere, in every respect, in a very narrow room where it's terribly difficult to act and do anything. Every conversation is so difficult, so painful, I don't know what to tell you afterwards. If someone thinks we can do it easily without Europe, I hear it from my 15-year-old son, I hear it from many citizens of this country, in the most responsible way I will tell you – I have no dogma, I have no ideolatarian relationship, absolutely no. I'm telling you, we can't survive. We'll have nothing to pay our pensions off. So I think in one thing you were absolutely right about something you said in the campaign, about something we talked about in the campaign. We can't be a sustained face forever, we have to raise our capacity, our ability. We have to do more. It seems we have a great desire to be a patient person, or some of us, and in order to survive, we must not be a resilient person. Now we don't have the strength, we don't have any capacity, we don't have a smoke factory. We don't have anything. We need huge money to start production. We'll keep the whole of Serbia hungry. Does anyone think that someone wants to do something against our people in Kosovo and Metohija, that someone is rooting for Thaci, Haradinaj or anyone? I know of some of the moves Mr. Kostunica made, which someone would say today – what did this one do? Well, it had to be done, you have a responsibility to the state. It's not my responsibility to tell Daniel, it's my responsibility to do what we're going to do to make everyone's child see a future and a perspective for themselves tomorrow. So I'm just asking you for that kind of understanding, that you know that in the most difficult conditions we're looking at how to get out of it. How difficult that is, I don't even have to tell you. I was at consultations at a time when we were in opposition, which your president organised maybe every two or three weeks, discussed these problems, about things we didn't agree on, but we knew what difficulties Serbia was in. I think people understand that somewhere in our country today. So I ask you both to understand and to be patient, but also to know what kind of environment we are in and what the situation is around us. We ourselves, isolated from all, cannot survive. We don't need only one side, we need cooperation and support on all sides. I don't think you can say for the first time - you're only facing one side. I don't think you can have an objection and say we're going to one side or that side, in terms of military alliances. We're acting really rationally and the way the responsible government can behave, but I'm asking you, because you're affecting public opinion because you're a big party, because you have a lot of serious and responsible people to help us in this regard. There will be those who are irresponsible, who will pour oil on the fire and when it is not necessary, when it is absolutely harmful to the interest of this country, but I ask you not to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5568	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5569	Thank you both for answering the first question. It is a major space relatively narrow I mean the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, but there is, but you said you wouldn't get involved in the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. Of course, I understand that, but I just think that the government can give some input that aside from this political plan that I have no doubt will be done to hear that voice about the shame and injustice that has been done to us with these judgments, to do something more on the legal agenda. I repeat, for the simple reason that this must not legally remain innocent, because there is certainly more than a reasonable doubt that there are elements of serious crimes. This second question, which is probably more complex, let's try to get a few things straight. You know, Mr. Vice President, you won't hear from us any cheap criticism, you know that this party has been in power, that there are many parameters in power to consider, that the situation is much more complicated. So we never deal with unserious politics, neither when we're in power nor now in the opposition, nor attack without reason, nor even this was an attack. We fully understand the gravity of the situation and fully understand the fact that Serbia cannot be isolated. But no one, and especially the DSS, wants to isolate Serbia, of course you didn't say that, but just a few things to explain, and we don't think we should turn to one side alone, even if it was Russia. We think there's some kind of interspace where, as you say, between, whatever we do, nothing is right, that we do what's less wrong. There are some breaking moments, so I understand that in politics, especially in state policy, in these historic circumstances that are difficult we have to make some compromises. There is a limit to how long compromises can be made and when some capitulation, or defeat, or irrevocably lost. Believe me, Mr. Wolfie, I don't envy you at all for being in that position. I can understand how responsible it is from fighting corruption to these things that concern Kim. But you can't come across our understanding if what we consider to be the limit of grants you skip or cross. Here, when we're in this integrated border management, I know it's something that was done during the previous government, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, here in the O.R., that negotiated it. The big question is to what extent is our international legal obligation. It's a big question. You can argue with that a little bit. But what's for sure and it just stands, even if it is an international legal obligation, it's against the constitution. What would be the EU's reaction if we said - no, we're not doing this. I'm sure it'd be a tough reaction, probably a tough one. What would be the exact consequences? Probably heavy. It is now a matter of choice, and it is now your responsibility, your government, or the Government of Ivica Dacic and you as vice president, which is exactly what you choose. Do you, come on, I'll use that word, maybe a little rough, flushing down the water? I think of part of state territory and is moving further towards the EU towards full membership, or is trying to balance itself in a very difficult environment. We think that some agreements, in fact, we cannot accept all these agreements and we cannot implement them because they are really moving Kosovo away from Serbia and in a way that, if we continue to do so, we will never be able to return. Does this mean an end to co-operation with the EU? No, I don't. When the DSS says political neutrality, it means not full membership, that every co-operation. Will this co-operation at first be difficult with our decision to protect Kosovo? Perhaps, but it is up to you as a government to ensure that this co-operation is not permanently compromised. So, you have our understanding because the situation is complex, but I'm afraid you won't be able to come across much understanding if, for example, all this is agreed by the DS is actually implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5570	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5571	So we try, as you say and as I say, in difficult circumstances we get as much as possible for the country. There are now a few interesting things in these technical negotiations. I wouldn't talk about it in front of the entire Serbian public. I have no problem staying at the end of this session to tell you. But I'll get to know your president anyway, as we'll meet all the presidents, of all the parties, if they show interest in it, until these technical talks have arrived, which is who, what, how does he get, who, what, how does he lose? What is it where our hands are tied, but I want to tell you one thing that seems completely accurate and I want you to know it. So, on the first thought that we do not accept agreements discussed in Brussels and say that we cannot accept what the previous government has accepted, in every place in Europe and the world, more precisely in Western Europe, so from America to Western Europe we are told – you are not a credible partner and we are not going to talk about anything anymore, because that means that you are not a state, because the previous government, this government or some future government, is no matter to us. So, at each level, from the cabinets of each commissioner, such a response came from each country's cabinets, the EU member states arrived, from the United States came such a response, from each country's Western hemisphere came such a response. So, since I've heard it, and I don't mean from you and your party, but from some others who have spoken – if it's so bad, then what do you accept, because it's not an obligation. Now, I'm telling you, I've talked to the EU's top representatives and I've talked about it and I've got that answer. So, people will come here and you can ask them, they all gave the same answer. Now the question is, can we afford it or can't we? Can we afford it or not? That's the only reason why we're getting into everything today, because we think getting a date is not because we have an idolatrous or dogmatic relationship to it, for many reasons. Because they're going to open up a country for new investors. Because it will be a sign to a large part of humanity that we are a legally arranged country in which they can operate from which they can profit, in which they can do what they do in such countries. So that's what's important to us. Do we love everything that has to be done? No, you're right when you say it's torture. Right, straight torture. Now let's call it our own fates, someone will say, "Come on, get out of there and you'll be right." So we have to take what we think is least bad, as you said at this point. Are we going to agree on everything? I'm sure we won't, not necessarily, but I'm asking you to keep that kind of correct relationship, the correct opposition relationship, because it's important for the country because of the difficult moment we're in. We didn't accidentally call for unity today because everything collapsed like a map tower. Not by guilt, not by the President of the Republic, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by any of you. We're down because of bad politics, decades, or if you want more decade, it doesn't matter. Now everything's kind of coming up. If we can get out of it, if we can get up, it's up to us. I want to repeat my agreement again in one important thing, which is that we are not someone's supported face, but that we are building our capacities, our factories, our production plants. So we can be someone who can live without help from the side. Unfortunately, at this very moment, we depend heavily on the talks, on the support of international factors, and I am sure and not afraid to say that this is not the fault of this government of the Republic of Serbia, but that this kind of addiction has been created for years and that it will take us only a year or two, but a long period of time for us to save ourselves economically, that we can survive and that we can make progress. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5572	Mr. Wolf, you and this government are taking on a really big responsibility. I can agree that you've inherited a lot from the previous government, that we're not talking about a decades-old, quite a serious sunroof of our people, but it won't wash away your government from responsibility if it continues that way. We can agree and there's no dilemma here, that we're not a dependent person, that we're working on our economic recovery, that we're the stronger state, the only thing that we in the DSS think you'd be an economical, powerful state, first you have to be a state, very simple. I think that when a country, no matter how difficult the circumstances, no matter what they say in the EU, you are no longer a credible partner. If one state ceases to fight for what it is, for its state territory, for its economic resources, I think it allows itself something that one country that is serious would not allow, which is further breaking up and if it all ends in Kosovo, because Kosovo is itself a serious problem, the problem is that it will not end only in Kosovo, you will have some other areas in which Serbian flags are burned, and some third areas where Serbian flags are removed from institutions, and some other areas, and there will be no end. At some point, as hard as it may be, we have to stop and say, no, now we're going to take care of ourselves. At the same time, I'm not sure the price of that fight would be that high. When you ask them, what if we didn't accept now to implement the agreements that Borislav Stefanovic agreed with Edith Tahiri, they tell you, it will be a very big problem for you, you won't be credible, do it, so let's see what the reaction will be. It's their job to say that. It's your job to do something else, to guard this country's constitution and fight for what you said you were fighting for. The DSS believes that the way to fight for it is, what are you fighting for, yet different, not to say for certain things – yes, but to say nicely – not to fight for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5573	The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5574	Dear Vice President, I have two questions. One is for Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and one is for Minister Velimir Ilic. Five years ago, the construction of a surgical block in Vranj began and about 80% of the work was completed on that surgical block. I expected that in the 2013 budget law, we would find a position to end this surgical block. He may be standing in some position, but I've been looking very carefully, I couldn't find, I can see that the big clinical centres planned, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, the Vranja in that program are gone. I will not talk about the importance of the surgical block, given that somewhere around 250,000 people are gravitating towards Vranje and towards that clinical center, according to the surgical block and my question is directed towards you, whether you plan to do something in 2013 at the end of the surgical block and whether it will be completed in 2013. The question for Mr Velimir Ilic, Mr Minister, is that in 1997 the construction of a stock from the border with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia towards Bujanovac, or the village of Levosoja, was started in 1997 until 2000, and something was done by 2004. However, part of the work remained unfinished on the stake. It was even a promotion of the release of one section of the highway in 2008, but essentially, the section of the highway was not completed in the length of about 17 km. In communication with JP representatives, the "Serb Roads" said it was funded, and Minister Kalanovic knows it was financed by part of the NIP funds, so they have no planned funds for the stock. With the company "Serb Corridors", they said they were responsible for building these shares that were now launched, from Bujanovac to Vranje and Vranj to Vladic's Han, so they are not in the programme, in the completion programme. I have attached an amendment to the 2013 budget and I ask for the completion of this section to be specified in 2013, but I have been told that the government's act will define the JP's work programme "The Ways of Serbia". The question for you is, do you know if this stock will end in 2013, since it's the most dangerous share in Corridor 10, and I'm not going to talk about a few people already being killed on that section that's very dangerous for traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5575	The word has a health minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for the opportunity to say something about the reconstruction of four KCs and a plan relating to health facilities throughout Serbia, specifically in Vranje. The four clinical centres project is actually not in any collegiate with projects related to the reconstruction and reconstruction of Serbia's health institutions, because the four clinical centres are being implemented through the World Bank's funds. As early as 2003, we received 150m euros for the project and when I came to the Ministry of Health, I could see that the projects were not completed. We have stepped up the work on the completion of the projects and they will begin to implement themselves in 2013 by first doing KC in Nis, because the project is the most done for this KC, then for the same reasons Novi Sad, then Kragujevac in 2013, I would like to start Belgrade as well, which is planned, but it is not realistic that it will be able to be in 2013. After that design phase, there's a realisation going on, and I mean, I have firm convictions of the project unit, along the way, I've had to make a personnel change in this unit to work more vigorously and I have assurances that this will go with this dynamic. As for all the other budget projects this year, we did the best we could for Vranje. We're going to try to make this as much as possible in the following year, but there's no plans for a simple reason, which hospitals owe different suppliers at this point of 13.5 billion dinars. The RZO owes 17 billion dinars and with these debts, if it passes a set of laws that monitors the budget, so a long hospital to suppliers is accepted as a public debt, it is very likely that we will be able to think about both some savings and some funds related to the realisation that is in the content of your particular question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5577	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5578	I'll answer your question, we wanted to end it, and I'm sorry that Mrkonjic is not here today, no property-legal relations were resolved, no expropriation was done, there were some delays and some litigation at the whole part of the K10 section that you mentioned, but there was something left to be solved, something didn't solve, and that's why there was a skipover of certain parts of K10. I think it's going to end because it would be very unserious to do the whole job, and to skip that 17-mile or 10-mile section, which would be inexplicable. There will be funds and to end it, there is a possibility, as we started working on Corridor 11, there is no skipping, we go in one order and the dynamics of the works are respected and the end is being brought in. I hope it does, you'll all come to Roads, it doesn't matter who will, but the stock has to end, since it's a very dangerous part of the Corridor that's insecure in traffic and we have all kinds of problems that need to be solved in order to increase security and I hope it will be done in 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5579	Mr. Stojcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5580	I thank you for your answers to both Minister and Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5581	The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5582	Thank you, Chairman. I have a question for the first Deputy Prime Minister in charge of defence and security, the fight against corruption and crime, the Secretary-General of the National Security Council and the president of the SNS. Dear Mr. Vukic, in the media every day we hear you fight corruption. My question to you has already been asked by Miss Jerkov here two weeks ago, and she has not yet received an answer, nor has she, nor have the other MPs. The question is, do you approve of buying a councilman that's already happened in Zrenjanin, Kickindi, who tried to happen on Starari, where your candidate for president and first on the SNS list, Novak Nedic, tried to buy the council members by offering them money and intercepting them on the street, and what he says... (President: I apologize, the parliamentary question should be asked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So if you ask the Deputy Prime Minister a question, please ask him about jurisdiction. This first question was not in line with that. Of course. The man is also in charge of fighting corruption. And that, as it says under your protection and your blessing. Since you say you have a majority for the city of Belgrade, is that what most of you want to do on Starry, do you want to do in Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5583	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5584	May I have your attention, please? The height of your voice was counter-proportional to the arguments you made. There's no need to raise your voice. As for the purchase of a council member, please provide the slightest proof that there is an attempt to carry out criminal acts of giving and receiving bribes or anything like that, those persons in charge of state authorities will certainly be prosecuted. As for Zrenjanin, I want to inform you, seeing as you have not closely followed the news, the SNS councilman, Mrs. Djajic has bought or tried to buy, but that day later she returned to the SNS line, it was not the other way around, but it seems that no one has informed you about it. As for most in Belgrade, there is no need to show anxiety. It's okay to court a new party leader and I have nothing against it and I won't interfere, I will answer as Deputy Prime Minister, not as someone who is a political opponent of the DS. As far as most in Belgrade are concerned, I will not be held accountable to Milan Krkobbiæ, either to you or to anyone else. If someone asked me, what do I think of who has the majority? I'm telling you, I think we have a majority. That majority will be based on the right, on the number of councilmen, if that happens. I haven't even informed you that this is going to happen yet, and you're already so nervous. There's no reason for that. So don't tell me not to make political statements, I'll give them. If you have any suspicion that a crime has been committed somewhere, I ask you to deliver it to the competent state authorities and carry it out. Otherwise, as far as shopping is concerned, as far as I know we're serious about this job, and that's why the president of the Major Municipality was arrested who was giving money. He wasn't talking and intercepting someone on the street, but in the office of the president of the municipality, all pulling state and national money, if he puts it on the DS list, he certainly votes. So, according to your desire and thesis, we will continue this fight against the members of the SNS, of all other parties, if you show us the underlying suspicion that the crime has been committed. So, I would only ask you, since I'm listening to one story and this is not the answer to you, this is now the answer to all those who are talking about selective justice and the selective fight against corruption. I didn't say that certain tycoons were arrested, so in the car when they said how much money they were detaching, then they were released from the car on their way to Central Prison, they were doing it by someone from your authority. I didn't take watches from those criminals you fought for and talked about getting out of prison after getting the Amnesty Act, worth 40,000 and 50,000 euros, but your officials. I'd just like to ask you not to threaten, I don't mean you personally, to the competent state authorities, by every time someone in the DS has to answer, you tell us that it's some kind of selective approach. They will answer, for God's sake, more representatives from the SNS, as well as the Democratic Party, and you will not hesitate anyone in this country to fight corruption or anyone, just because he is a member of your party or any other party. Anyone who has committed crimes, who has participated in corruption, in crime, will answer. If you have that we have committed a crime, say – he and he committed a crime, the evidence is that, and the competent state authorities will react. That's the thing I absolutely guarantee you and I guarantee it will happen to every member of the SNS if you show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5585	Mr. Radakovic, before I give you my word, I will remind you of the provision of Article 204(1). A Rules of Procedure, which says you can only ask a question from the authority of a member of the government. So, if you want to ask an additional question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5586	Thank you. I answer to Mr. Wolf. Mr. Wolfie, I'm a serious man... (President: Mr. Radakovic, I hope I was very clear. You have no right to answer to Mr. Wolf. You can ask Mr. Wolf a further question. I can replicate, I can ask an additional question to Mr. Wolfich. Mr. Wolf, I'm a serious man and I have no intention of giving things to the media like your people, the people around you. This is a disk with footage of Novak Nedic, a candidate for the SNS municipality president. This is a transcript of the conversation... (President: Mr. Radakovic, I take away your word because you are not, I beg your pardon, I am here responsible for holding the session and for this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whether you are satisfied or not, moving on to parliamentary issues. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5587	The word is Zechariah Trnavcevic, who has one minute left. Here you go. So I'll remind you of clause 204. Rules of Procedure, really, to... (Alexander Wolf, from the scene: Can I have a word before they come out? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5588	Please say everything you can and everything you want and come back, so that someone doesn't think we're scared of your drives and some stories. Go ahead, come and tell Mr. Stefanovic, so you don't play offended young people out front, please come and say everything you have. Here's all the time in this world to show you that big criminals are somewhere on the other side, and not like this, just as soon as someone answers you, and not a tenth of what was meant to be answered, you haven't heard, you run away from the O.R. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5589	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Trnavčević, a minute to ask questions, Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5590	As Mr. Finance and Economy Minister came to the hall, here is an opportunity to ask a question on behalf of businessmen who remind that the government of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Economy, gives foreign investors a certain amount of work, ranging from six, eight, even ten thousand euros. Domestic investors, who also open, start new operations and employ new labour, do not get such incentives. An example of this is the farm "Letnikovac" in Pogorevec, which has been abandoned for 15 years. The MZ Union is planning to lease that farm for 20 years and bring it back to life, drown 50,000 pieces of pigs, 1,000 heroes a year, etc. And they ask, will MZ Union also, and will employ about 100 workers, if all of this is accomplished in the cattle food factory and in the mill, be able to count on that kind of support? That's the first question. (President: Mr. Trnavciæević, that minute has expired and therefore I ask you to... The second question is, the Rakovica engine industry... (President: Mr Trnavčević, first I gave you the word past the Rules of Procedure, secondly, because I promised you in the first part of your discussion, you spoke for two minutes, I promised when Minister Dinkic came to ask him a question, so please stick to that agreement. All right, answer me, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5591	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5592	The answer is simple. The right to this incentive has domestic companies as well as foreign ones. So there's no difference between domestic and foreign companies. Under the same conditions, they compete. Any domestic company including the MZ Union can receive up to 10,000 euros per newly employed worker, but must lay down a bank guarantee in the amount of incentives it wants and must have a programme that will be approved. So it's possible if they give a bank guarantee just like other companies do. In the programme, more than half of the companies that received incentives through them were from Serbia. So it's a delusion that it's only given to foreign companies. Encourage the MZ Union to compete.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5593	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia this morning I asked a question, because I did not know whether the Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, would come, but I am glad that the government is here in great numbers. The first time we had, I asked the ministers to always black out that last Thursday, if you remember and be in parliament because it's a practice in all of Europe's parliaments and all over the world and it's a good thing. I know Serbian citizens like to watch these sessions, but unfortunately these incidents happen, but it is all an integral part of parliamentaryism. Now I'm going to ask that question, and then after I answer one more question. I'll repeat the question again from this morning's extra head doesn't hurt. I was talking about the fight against corruption, which is very important to this government, especially by the previous government. There were stories about fighting crime, etc., but not corruption. Declaratively, everyone now supports this fight, although we can see that from one part of the opposition, there's a kind of anxiety about this fight, but now everyone's backing that fight. However, I would also support what the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, said today, institutional Serbia is not currently ready for full capacity to fight the past, which is the largest in Serbia. That is what it takes for us here to engage fiercely in changing the legislative procedure related to the fight against corruption, government, service, police, military, prosecution, judiciary. A lot of things have to be tied up that haven't been done the right way so far. In part, we're going to fix it by this law that's been discussed, about public enterprises, the new law on public procurement. When the debate on the law comes, I will talk about some concrete examples of how the robbery, estimated by some 400m, was committed, some 800m euros annually in Serbia in the previous period. But what interests me most is how far in this investigation or before the investigations, I know that something has been done in the previous period, related to 24 and other privatisations in Serbia, above all "Sartid". As we know, Smederjevska ironic is now the economic problem number one that this government has to solve and thank God, it seems to be solving it in the right way and will be resolved these days. What's happening to us today is the result of this kind of privatisation, not a bad partner in Sartid, US Steel is a good company, but she got in a bad way. If she got in a better way, she'd probably be on the market today. I'm going to remind you that the cost assessment was almost $500 million, and it was sold for $23 million. The very town of Smederevo was very damaged in that situation. So, my question is for Mr. Wolfie, is that where he's going to step up? I know it's a big burden, I know I've got a lot of stuff, but can we hear the results of those investigations in a quick period of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5595	Thank you. The word has a Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5596	As you know, a task force has been formed to carry out the activities of the investigation of these 24 items. It's not all privatisation cases. Fifteen are privatisation cases, these nine are not. These are the items Verica Barac of the Anti-Corruption Council insisted on. Then the EU is on the basis of the arguments it received from the Anti-Corruption Council and Mrs Barac, and I think it was good to start with that. Because no one could say that the competent state authorities are arbitrarily accessing the selection of cases, so they want those cases to work in which there are no representatives or in which it is possible to find representatives of some other political parties. These are so complex and complex objects that it is not easy to do them quickly, examine all facts and in co-operation with the prosecution or go to the prosecution or conduct investigations. I want to tell you that two objects as you know, defacto completed. From that 24 we entered third, and I expect that in the next period, at least until the new year, two more cases are closed, i.e. that the prosecution can fully take certain criminal actions. As far as Sartida is concerned, I think we're close to the end and I think the competent state authorities will be keeping the public informed soon. Much more important than notifying is the taking of measures from its own section of the store on this matter. As far as the future of the Smederjev Ironworks is concerned, I could speak more about Mr Dinkic. Yesterday, Mr. Sienko was the director-general of the Ural Car Institute in Belgrade, the Russian delegation, and these talks are very intense. As far as I'm concerned, I can say that we hope and expect it with one of the largest Russian companies to finally finish that job and provide work for the workers in Smederev. To ensure the future in the town of Smederev, but to make it easier for everyone in the Serbian government and to reduce the significant expenditure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must spend on employees in Sartide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5597	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5598	Thank you for your response. This is also very important because of the citizens of Serbia, not only because of the people living in Smederevo, because when these investigations are completed, Serbia will regain credibility in that part and will certainly be able to count on larger investments and new investors that it has lost over the past few years. The fact is, and we are witnessing how little investment is currently in Serbia. The second question is about what happened around The Hague. I must say that our relationship with The Hague tribunal, when I say our thoughts on our state, I think no one has said in parliament, and that is what the citizens of Serbia should also hear that the Croatian state has spent 27m euros to defend Gotovina and Markac. How much and how we did it, the show Mr. Veselin Sljivancanin had a few nights ago on television, where he practically only mentioned personal enthusiasm and, in a few examples, commended Mr. Rasim Ljajic for what he did, but something organized as state he could not state. One thing I heard on that show surprised me. He said he was prevented that as someone who finished the Military Academy and a former officer, who served his sentence, who is now a citizen of the Serbian state, was prevented even with a bought ticket from entering the Military Academy pool and using the pool. I wonder if that's true at all, and if it is, what will happen next in this matter, how will we help those in The Hague in the coming period? We have an ex-president who returned from The Hague unconvicted, Mr. Milutinovic. How did we meet him here, how are the Croats there? It's all something he's saying about us in some way. I think this government needs to change these things too, such a relationship to change towards The Hague tribunal, at least in that kind of way that touches all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5599	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5600	I'm going to answer your questions specifically, and I'm going to try to talk through your question about something that I already talked about today, which I think is very important. First of all, no one in Croatia has ever asked why 27m euros are being allocated or why millions of euros are being allocated to their generals. In our country, we are unable to agree on anything. We are unable to agree on what would be the good news for us around which we would gather somewhere in the square to celebrate. It doesn't matter, let it happen in five years, let it happen in 10 years, any news, and it's not about sports. We don't have it. None of us in the O.R. know her. It speaks of the tragic position of both our people and our country. Imagine that in a situation like this, we said that we would single out more serious money as a state for the Hague defendants? A whole block of parties would accuse us of being thieves of their future, not to worry about the state. These others would call them traitors, and these would always be the same. We're in a vicious chain of circuits that, if we don't get out, I'm afraid we're going down slowly, and it wouldn't be the first time that the state's poisoning like that, as we go along, slowly, but surely we're going down. That's why we need to turn everything around, some of us would say turn around and set ourselves up completely different. As for the questions for Mr. Sljivancan, I signed that decision today. They don't buy tickets to the Military Academy. He sent them one or two letters, they didn't even answer me if he could get into the Military Academy. I don't know why it was someone's problem. I am not ashamed to even say publicly, since I am not advocating anyone, that they are allowed to enter both the pool and the sports halls and in every place, so if the general has not yet received that decision in writing, I am informing him that things in Serbia have changed so much that we officers respect and that at least a little of the things we can do will be able to have in the future. As for what we were talking about and the measures to take, I think that today's example has also shown the extent of our irresponsibility can be, although I don't think you should have taken Mr. Radakovic's word, but the chairman probably wanted to have a turn. Some of them knew the answer was even more difficult, and they took it as an opportunity to harm the reputation and parliament for nothing, cause damage to the reputation of both Parliament and all of us. Instead of at least acting responsibly in these days, the most important topic was how to make mistakes to a political opponent, because some councilman on Starar or a councilman in Kučev or a councilman in Zrenjanin did something somewhere. About who is important and how important this issue is, it tells who it is and how much it cares about both Serbia and its institutions and its future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5601	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5602	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, my first question was addressed to Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. When I once asked my parliamentary question to the finance minister, which was read – when the last control of the bank's business was carried out, and whether the bank was operating with losses, the finance minister had almost delivered me something that looked like an answer, and in that something that looked like the answer was that the issue was not at all in the jurisdiction of the finance ministry, but was teaching me, as if I didn't know it, that I had to address the NBS, which was controlling the credit and business of the banks, which I did, so I first addressed the NBS, and only after the minister asked the question and the official letter of the National Bank in part and received confirmation of what I thought. Just a few days ago, the Ministry of Finance provides information through public information funds, where it is said about the losses achieved in its business by the Vojvodine Development Bank, where the figures of these losses are listed, so my question is whether Mr Dinkic as a finance minister loves the Development Bank so much, that the business of that bank, which I honestly don't care about, is it legal or illegal, will be determined by the competent authorities, but is it so much like that he can make statements about its business for the media or perhaps even prefers a "Marfin Bank", for which when I ask a parliamentary question the Ministry of Finance says is not competent? By the way, I have to mention, the Murphy Bank in public is well known to all of us as the former Laiki Bank. That's my first parliamentary question. Also, I'd add that maybe the finance minister doesn't like demochrists, but good, and he shouldn't love us. My additional question is why is such selectivity, Minister Dinkic, and what are these two arches? You're talking about some banks in public, you're also bringing about the control of the credits and the legality of their business, and you're referring me as an MP to the NBS, which I already got the answer before I asked you a question. Speaking of the former "Laiki Bank", which has been publicly spoken of years ago and whose criminal activities have been reported to the public on a daily basis, both by the Democratic Party of Serbia and by Vladan Batic, but also by certain ministers who are in this same government today, sitting in this same government, I have to ask the question, of which, of course, is business, i.e. About whose criminal activities have the demochrists always talked about, in that sense I have to ask Mr. Vukic a question - when will finally open an affair called "Cyprus Money", the biggest robbery not for decades, but centuries? So, not if, but when it will finally continue to process the case, all those behind this affair, all those who are taxed in a criminal report that was handed over five years ago, for which the prosecution took over the most fundamental legal actions. That would be my question. Tell him to answer me, and I'll ask him later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5603	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5604	The answer is simple. The National Bank of Serbia controls the work of all banks in Serbia. It is in the Central Bank's control in all countries, including Serbia. However, the finance ministry is responsible for the state stakes in the banks in which it is located. "Marfin Bank" is 100% foreign property. The Republic of Serbia has no participation in the Marfin Bank. So we can't know the state of the Murphy Bank, but that's why we're obliged to take care of the government stakes in the banks where we're involved. The Vojvodina Development Bank is one of those banks where both the provinces of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia are involved because of the problems in that bank, the National Bank of Serbia has informed us as shareholders about these problems and asked what we are going to do with it. So there's a big difference and there's a simple answer. There's no mystic. We don't know what's going on in foreign banks. The only thing that matters is the Central Bank, but we need to know what's going on in banks where the state, or the Republic of Serbia, is involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5605	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5606	In time, speaking with your father, speaking with Velimir Ilic, who had some knowledge of the so-called "Ilic". Cypriot affairs, I've gained some knowledge, some insight, but not enough to be able to make a more serious comment at this point. I want to tell you one thing, which all of them could have noticed during that period, I mean even Mr. Dinkic. Cyprus may be the closest country to us in the EU, it may be one of our biggest friends, but when we ask for international and legal assistance, we have the most serious problem with the Cypriot banks. So whatever you're looking for, whoever transferred the money to Saric's companies, we can't get an answer from there. We then get along and ask for other services in the world that have different relationships and a different possibility and greater technological knowledge and power to help us on this matter. There is no reason not to enter the case seriously. I just want to express some kind of personal skepticism on my part, because I see how much we're struggling about something that should be the simplest thing, and I'm not telling you that, as you know, behind each of those companies that transfers millions of dollars from a bank account, you're not going to see the real account owner anywhere, and they're all lawyers and law firms. These are mostly taken by the best law firms, because these people are perfectly familiar with the law, they know how to get through and in line with legal norms, and in fact they work all the time, not always, of course, but infrequently and non-moral jobs or that in many countries they would be characterized as illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5607	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5608	I thank Mr. Vukic for the question he has raised in some way, and I can also tell part of the evidence and the same criminal charges before the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. On the other hand, since I'm going to ask another question, I must first of all point point out that the DHSS has always been a advocate of fighting crime and corruption, so we'll always be happy to support this announced fight, which has already begun. My next question was also addressed to Mr. Aleksandr Vucic – when will the second robbery of the century called "National Savings", whose criminal activities were also presented to the public by the DHSS, whose criminal activities were presented by the late Dr. Vladan Batic, and who, due to the truth about all the criminal activities of "National Savings" had been coerced, forced into Central Prison, without taking a decision on four-hour detention, from which Mališa Jeftovic had previously been performed, that famous three-year-old child killer and in that same cell put Vladan Batic in order to further humiliate himself, which he later, I will also not say, is that because of the unfounded lack of freedom independing on the name of immaterial damages, he received so much poverty that I will not even justify it? I'm also interested, since Mr. Vukic announced it, when will an examination of everything that's been done around the National Savings?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5609	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5610	National Savings is one of those items I was talking about. That's all I can tell you. There's no more details I can talk about. That's all. I want to tell you because it's probably focused on the story -- it's this one or that guilty one, so I won't go all the way, I want to tell you that the members of the government, which someone would think would want to protect themselves, insisted that everything be done to the end so that everything is completely clear and transparent for everyone in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5611	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5612	I would like to thank Mr. Wolfich for his reply. We know who these members of the government have asked to be questioned by the National Savings Department. I will not speak of the first-degree verdict given to Haradinaj, but since I have heard, and I seem to remember quite well that Mr Vukic said he would represent our country and that he would say his position on The Hague tribunal, there would be no burning that on behalf of the DHSS and on that occasion you could use it, that Vladan Batic was the only justice minister who took more than 40,000 pages of material evidence to The Hague tribunal and handed it right against Ramush Haradinaj and KLA leaders. You can ask that, as you can ask for 30,000 pages of the same evidence that Vladan Batic took against Thaci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5613	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5614	First Deputy Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, Mr. Wolf, mentioned your son at one point. I very much appreciate that you said that the most important thing for you at this point is how future generations will view what is happening in Serbia today, how we are going to deal with some of the problems of the past, what will be the consequences in our society of the different things that have happened to us, which today, in some way, or at these moments, end. I assume you meant the effects of the UN tribunal's verdicts or verdicts and everything that awaits us in the coming weeks when it comes to resolving the Kosovo issue. I'm saying, I appreciate that attitude, but I need to warn you of something that is parallel to what you're saying is happening in this society. It's an atmosphere that doesn't go after one or doesn't go that way that you're kind of promoting here today. Even part of the question coming out of this room, including the MPs of your MP group, I think it's completely the opposite of that. You said at one point that you had suggested greater amounts of assistance to The Hague indictees in order to come across the convictions of some political parties. I don't understand why some political parties think that the Hague injustice is rectified or some future Hague justice is strengthened by us especially helping or trying to be over and above all measures, by force, if you will, we are fighting for the acquittal of those who are members of our people and who are accused or convicted in The Hague. I don't think that's the point of justice. You were talking, we all talked about it a few weeks ago when the acquittal was issued in the Markac – Gotovina case, that this was about the victims, about the people who were killed in the "Storm" and right after it. They will have no special benefit if someone from Serbia who is in front of The Hague tribunal is released or is relieved of his sentence. They need some other kind of satisfaction. My question would always be - does this government do anything to strengthen our war crimes court, our war crimes prosecution? How far will they go forward or forward in their interest in some of the procedures being conducted, for example, at this time in Croatia? I was shocked how little interest there was in the local public, let's say, in that case, "Kerestinec," now in the case of Novska. These are key cases, not to banish justice here at the level of Milan Milutinovic and someone on the Croatian side. Every criminal is equal to me, every one whom the UN tribunal condemns or releases, I respect in terms of a legal decision, but I am primarily interested in the situation in my country. At this moment, you have on the sites of serious media outlets in this country organised calls for links to some social or political organisations, specifically "The Dvori". I have that in front of me right now. They say they are announcing, that they are starting to make a list of Hague criminals, or a list of responsible Serbian citizens in the case of "Hasha Betrayal" and that they will present it to the public in the coming days. I'm not sure either of you or anyone in this room wants to live in a country like that. Then there will be no happiness for those who have been victims of war on Serbian or on any side, but also for us who, hopefully, together try to build a better future, whether for our children or for other generations. That's the essence of my intervention today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5615	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5616	In most of what you said, or with most of what you said, I can agree. There are a few things I'd like to further explain and possibly disagree. I did not say that it was necessary to give more money than I said – whatever anyone suggested, that there would always be such a situation in Serbia where we would not achieve agreement, we would not achieve unity. One more thing, I heard from a friend, and then I thought about it for a long time, I guess I'm under that impression, think about people, all the citizens of Serbia, please, and what is it that we need to do to make us all happy? She's gone. Why do I think it was important that we take care of it? It was important, not because of their individual fates, but because some of these people who were prosecuted before The Hague tribunal, or who are being prosecuted by the UN tribunal today were the presidents of the state, the presidents of the parliaments, the commander-in-chief of the military, and that left long-term consequences for our country. It wasn't about their own fate. That is why, among other things, the obligation of the state to care for its own fates, but the obligation of the state is, above all, to take care of itself, its survival and its progress. I have another psychological explanation and an explanation why we don't know where the Varivods are, what happened to the Rabbit family, what happened to many others? That's because we Serbs always like big topics somewhere. We always like the biggest topics and the world's problems to solve. That is why today I have urged us to deal with ordinary people, to deal with their problems, to see how much we can help Serbs from Croatia to achieve their property rights, how much we can help people return to their hearths, who want to make a material compensation for everything they have lost. When I'm talking about the future, I really think we need a lot to change in what we call a "meinset" or whatever you want, to show people that we understood the messages, even if we stepped on a part of what we did and talked about in life. I don't have a problem with that, and I don't want to admit my mistake, and I don't want to apologize for anything I've done wrong, but I expect it from others. I think it is very important that we look to the future and think – what will our reaction do for the future? We'll have that Security Council session, whether it's four, five, six, it doesn't matter, and we'll cut them all right into a mustache. I ask you, on the seventh, on the eighth? The kid's an effect. So I'm not someone who's crazy, who's going to get after that because he's cut into their mustache, but let's see -- sorry, what are we doing on the seventh, what are we doing on the eighth, and what are we going to do after that, how do we secure more work and how do we make a better life? In that sense, I expect that kind of help from you, but we will still have to change ourselves. We expect that from everyone else, and we expect it from people in Serbia who need to know that nothing from the sky is going to fall, days can be a sustainable state, and we didn't deserve that if we don't do enough and we don't do more, that we live much better. What we have the lowest wages in the region is the result, it's true, incompetent governments. We think exes, some think I don't know which, and it doesn't matter, but the work results of all of us. If we can change that, I think the results will be different in the future. By the way, I absolutely agree that, as far as the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is concerned, what I think is very important is that no one interferes with their work, that no one stops them from chasing criminals who belong to our people, but no one stops them from chasing criminals, or suspects, or the defendants who belong to other peoples. I think it's an important liquid that we can really be special in front of everyone in Europe and the world. On that, I'm sorry, I think we're quite different from many in the region, although I see some in the region are making good progress in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5617	Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5618	Let's agree that all these problems that you're talking about, including those that are related to the everyday lives of people, to the economy, I'll quote you – the result of this wrong "mein set" from the past. I agree that we have to do everything we can to change that, but I think it has to happen in depth. This is why I reacted in this way, because we have already been going through situations as a state or as a society, that the highest political summit and the work of the political summit, for various reasons, face the inability to survive on the wrong policy and change that policy, turn it around without any of it happening. That's how we ended the war in Bosnia, that's how we ended the war in Croatia, if that's how we ended the war in Kosovo in 1999. We covered it up, or we covered it with some silence, and we didn't do anything in our society to talk about it, to deal with it, and then it came back to our faces after a few years. As a result, none of these topics have been clarified and it is possible, however, that your official, the official of this House, Mr Drecun, is very openly questioning, and I would say, is attacking the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor. I'm talking about that kind of bad influence, or the unauthorized influence. To take advantage of the opportunity, you were talking about what must be the essence of the government's work, and that's a better life for people. Many of the mistakes that have occurred in our economy, including the sources of mass corruption, have also been linked to events of war in the past, to the fact that we have not been a regulated country, that we have not fully defined our borders. Mr. Vukic, they were and were still partly due to the fact that we were trying to get some kind of political support for our policy on the wrong sides or giving back our economic resources. In this two-month-old parliament, I'm trying to figure out how much of the mineral oil rental will be exploited in Serbia since 1 January 2013? Minister Bacevic first announced, and this is a question for you, Mr Bacevic, that you first announced that you must discuss this with the Russian side and that the Serbian and Russian sides have different views on the issue. Then I also asked you a formal question in parliament. I got a very strange answer from you, I have to admit, even legally strange, where you quote the provisions of the agreement that speak of, that a reduced amount of mine rent of 3% will be applied until the cost of investments made by the Russian side in Serbia is achieved. In conclusion, then you're telling me that the 3% rent will be applied by the end of the agreement. So, for the next 26 years. That's your answer, and I have your answer with the Ministry's seal and your signature. A few days later, another member of the government, the energy minister spoke in a different way and spoke about Serbia's view that, above all, with the end of investments in Panchev, the profitability of investments was achieved. It's a serious sum. For 30 years, it's about a billion euros. What's going on right now? It's one of the consequences of these political, geostrategic, whatever you want, mistakes in the past. I'm not talking about it by accident today. Again, we hear stories about our failure in European integration or the challenges in European integration, to compensate on the other side. I'm not for us to run a pro-Western or pro-East economic policy. I'm just here to run a clean bill policy, transparent and pre-known.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5619	The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5620	I'll respond briefly to two of your attitudes. As for the exchange of arguments used by Mr. Drecun and the D.A., the representatives of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, I cannot agree with you when it comes to any kind of pressure. Mr. Drecun, as a National MP, has the right to express his position, has the right to say what he thinks about it. If it wasn't for the pressure, you can see that what he said didn't produce any political or any other consequences. But I'm sorry, I can't agree that he has no right to speak his mind or his opinion on it. Maybe my opinion is different. I didn't even invite him on the phone to talk about something like that. I think it's natural, normal, even rational to talk like that. I can't agree with the D.A.'s response to the war crimes. If they had said anything else, I'd understand, but it's a pressure on work. I didn't see it as pressure at all, nor was it possible. It means that whatever you say against anyone, that means that it's pressure on me I don't know what. So, you said something against me today, that's pressure. So what? It's natural in normal and democratic countries. As for failure on the way to the EU, which we must compensate on the other side, I must say that this is one of the things that the government is very successful at, I am talking about co-operation with the world. I don't think the government has ever had, I've been saying these past few years, that I'm not coming back in 2000 and 2001, when there was certainly a much more favourable climate, but that there was never a closer, better co-operation in this time, and I'd say it's also obvious from reports coming in and on reports that will arrive from the EU on 13 December, but also from the Russian Federation. And people from Europe, whether they're from Germany or any other European country, you didn't hear or didn't see them say that they weren't working with the government or that they weren't, or that this co-operation was bad, or that it was at a lower level, as you could hear yesterday from the vice president of the Russian government, who publicly said that with this government he could make the best possible co-operation that he couldn't in the past. Still, one of the results for the respect came true. Can you do better? It can always be better, but I think, in that sense, watching things is a better situation than it was before. I'm going to ask the Secretary of Resort to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5621	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5622	You, MP, have actually called for an answer in your question. I couldn't bid whether you liked the answer or not, but the fact is that what you've got is a legal state of affairs related to your question. If there's anything else I can explain to you, you're probably referring to article 13 of that agreement. In Article 13, it is taxed on what is considered to be worse. The fact is that 3% of the mining rent is a privilege for the user of that right. It's something this government found, and the Ministry of Mining and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Energy. If you ask me privately what I think that rent is low, I think it is. I'd like it to be higher. I'd also like it to be 5 and 7%. I'd like to end up being 20% as in Russia or Canada, but we have such an interstate agreement that binds us. We can't change anything that's written. I don't see any particular damage. I can answer, or the opposite question, ask you how did you calculate that it was a billion or two? What if the outlook shows that the results of the oil and gas research show that oil and gas in our country do not have enough and that this will make the company's business worse. Then your math falls by itself. Also, I don't want to deny that it can be more. The fact that that answer you received is legally formulated and it's the true state of affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5623	The word has Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5624	I expected the other minister to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5625	Minister Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5626	Since you mentioned me, you have partly passed on what I said, but the fact is the following – that in Serbia they are really at a high speed, much faster than they have normally exploited both oil and gas from our oil fields. The fact is also that today, from oil derivatives made by the oil industry "Gaspromnift" almost 50% is exactly domestic oil. The fact is, according to the energy agreement, the mining rent was 3% and the member mentioned by the minister is listed taxes, taxes that cannot be changed. The fact is also a serious question – is it a mining tax? We don't think so. The conclusions of the Russian-Serbian Mixed Committee, held perhaps 10 days ago, say the following - that talks will continue and that a cost-effectiveness methodology for "Gaspromnjeft" investment in Serbia will be established? When we together determine the methodology of whether or not they have paid off their investment, we will talk about the amount of the mining rent. The mine rent is much higher in all other countries, and in the surrounding countries, of course, Russia. Mine rent isn't just over 20% in Russia. There's even an export tax they pay there. I believe that we should pay attention to our natural resources, and as I told you on the basis of joint agreements between expert teams and the Ministry of Natural Resources, but also the Ministry of Energy, we'll see how much mineral rent can be. According to our Mining Act, the mine rent is 7%.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5627	Thank you. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5628	I won't ask the question, because the government can't answer. Look, Mr. Bacevic, that's the problem. No one's found an energy arrangement. The arrangement was adopted by the Serbian Parliament and your political party voted for the agreement, as well as a large majority of political parties. The Liberal Democratic Party voted. That's not the thing that fell from the sky. It's not a natural accident. It was a political decision. That's exactly what I was talking about. Serbia has entered an arrangement that is unclear. In half the arrangement, we have to interpret how we're going to apply it, and that's where we're much weaker than the beginning. It is clear that Serbia and Russia are not comparable countries when it comes to political and economic power, and especially Serbia is able to choose much in this economic situation. At the same time, he's trying to get as much credit as he can for himself as possible. That's why it was supposed to be considered politically in 2008. The mistake was made in 2008, because through that arrangement the then government and a huge part of the opposition or the patriotic opposition tried to find compensation in Russia for some of the failures they had in other segments of their policy. In that sense, I mentioned Russia as a possible compensation for the failure of European policy. That was my intervention in this sense. We can't act that way. This arrangement and many other arrangements will undermine the many effects of the Law on Public Enterprises, which you mention, or the effects of some other laws. That was what I wanted to talk about. Too bad it's a billion if you're talking about today's data. If they asked citizens around Zrenjanin or citizens in the vicinity of Kickinda, they would probably tell you that there will be no oil for exploitation in the next five years, given the size, strength and pace their Russian partner draws oil from these sites, if you want to open that topic. This creates an annual damage of several million euros only in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5629	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Dear People's MPs, we started with parliamentary questions at 4:15 p.m. and I think it's okay to finish at 7:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5630	Today, at this session, much has been said about the divisions and differences in our society, the fact that we cannot agree on elementary, basic values and things and one of the topics which have been very much around the attention of the National Assembly these days and one of the divisions that exists both in the political public and in the MPs these very days has been current, which is - what is the Constitution of Serbia? In this sense, my question will go to the Deputy Prime Minister, because I think it is very important for Serbia to start operating as an organised and legally organised society. The basic question is to discuss what the Constitution is and do we respect the Constitution? Four months ago, the RS Constitutional Court ruled on the unconstitutional nature of 22 provisions of the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. One of the most important, perhaps most important institutions, the most important court in Serbia by representatives of those who passed an unconstitutional law was declared an anti-civilisation court, judges were declared ignorant, called for a change in the constitution, called for internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue, and it was said to be a violation of anti-civilisation forces on Vojvodina's autonomy. All this has been said with the aim of not respecting Serbia's constitution and to put it out of force. As you know, the DSS launched a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law and the Statute of Vojvodina three years ago, and at the same time submitted a proposal for a new law establishing jurisdiction. Unfortunately, I must say that, rather than using her powers to power the entire territory of Serbia, even in the Vojvodina area, she negotiated with representatives of the province's institutions how to get out of the so-called legal vacuum created by the Constitutional Court's decision. We believe that this was not a good step and that the government had to use the powers as the only competent authority to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, regardless of the pressures, statements and threats heard from Vojvodina, and afterwards from the European Commission, which were intended to obstruct this decision. My question is - why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not sent the National Assembly a new bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5631	Thank you. The word has a Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5632	I don't know why we didn't make that law. I take the blame. As for the negotiations with the government of Vojvodina, I must say that the intention of my colleagues in the government was to show good will to solve all problems, not to negotiate with them. We have nothing to negotiate with them. We're not warriors or we don't know what to do, so we can negotiate with them. There is a Constitution in this country and the Constitution is respected. There's no telling whose jurisdiction they are. As I told some here from the parliamentary benches that they can scream as much as they want about the selective fight, about selective justice, about the selective thing to protect themselves in the future, they won't protect themselves. Now I tell you, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be respected as much in Novi Sad as in Kragujevac and Nis, without any difference. It is nice for our government's representatives to speak with representatives of the province's administration. It's nice to have someone agree. He might disagree. I have to say, we don't care. The Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia will be implemented in all these places I have spoken of in exactly the same way. So, according to that, I'm going to look at and check out the full legal procedure and see how we can react. As far as the Constitutional Court's rulings are concerned, the Constitutional Court's decisions are unimpeached to us, whatever those decisions may mean. That's how every serious state must behave, but I'd say anyone who thinks it's a state must behave that way. There is no game and there will be no game. Because someone because they're sponsoring some media is the Vojvodine Development Bank or someone else and who thinks it'll be easier to speak against someone from the government or that they're going to make some kind of front against anyone, I have to say that I'm not particularly fascinated and not very scared. Let them do their job, and the state will do its job. You may have noticed that I have less patience for bad arguments, sometimes I would say the insolence of certain representatives of the government at some levels, and I am avoiding that kind of conversation with them, because I think that we are sending them a message that the Constitution and the laws of this country must apply equally and that it is not even discussed, nor is it negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5633	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5634	It's very important what you said. It is these days in the Assembly that we are discussing the extent to which the decision of the Constitutional Court is being implemented by the province administration. We had the opportunity to hear that a number of institutions, which the Constitutional Court has challenged, exist in legal life, in legal traffic. In addition, I also asked Minister Dinkic, my question to the provincial secretary – why you finance the Fruska Gora National Park, the answer was because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on the Constitutional Court's decision, did not take over those powers. It is very important to establish a very clear principle. I expect that this will be based on what you have now said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot negotiate with the lower authorities on the respect of the Constitution. The constitution can only be respected. In this regard, my next question is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will, in accordance with these competences it has, when it comes to implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court, apply jurisdiction and see whether representatives of the province's administration respected the full decision of the Constitutional Court, or whether they tried in a different way to keep the solutions that were in the Constitutional Court's decision disputed, and now move on? For example, the Brussels office has now been renamed to the Department of the Regional Fund for European Affairs. Is that respect for the Constitutional Court's decision or not? Is respect for the Constitutional Court's decision the existence of so-called The Dukean Academy of Science and Art? That's the key questions. Today we're witnessing the following things. Good will by the government to speak to those who did not respect the Constitutional Court and the Constitution ended up today in the National Assembly accusing you of disobeying the Constitution, so they sent you a series of laws, a series of amendments that did not have the courage to send over the past four years, and for these bad solutions and violation of the Constitution they voted. For the DSS, it's undeniable that Vojvodina should get 7%. It simply has to stop that duplicity and that disrespect of the Constitution. Now we insist and now we ask you this question, because too much time has passed and the DSS will come up with its initiative in order to resolve this issue as soon as possible. We all share the common interest in building Serbia as a legal, stable and responsible state where each level of government will have its powers and its competences and where there will be no political turbulence and the creation of artificial crises in changing government only because other people are at different levels of government. This is an ideal opportunity to establish that principle. The Constitutional Court's decision, the government's authority and the jurisdiction of one level of government, such as the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5635	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5636	I want to thank you first of all for asking a question and try to answer a few things. I repeat that thing that is most important, which is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be respected. On the other hand, we had a lot of problems, because some people, because of their own personal or party political interests, think they can make a state in the country and say that they are very good and that then their problems, not only at the province level, but also at certain urban, municipal levels, rise to the highest state level. I'll remind you, you've noticed for sure that some of the media that they've controlled have been reporting to the public – it's down to Uzice, maybe something else will fall. Where did it fall? It didn't fall into the hands of the occupier. I guess all of us who beat the DS are occupiers and we can't ever beat them anywhere. Some of them grew up with chairs in this country, as if they were born in these chairs and those chairs are the only ones they can belong to. They act accordingly. Today's answers to Mr. Radoman, I'm sorry I couldn't be present, Mr. Dinkic represented the government here, but the way they treated themselves, the way they treated the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the state of Serbia, shows that they falsely want to show or show concern for the preservation of the interests of Vojvodina, Vojvodina, Serbia, and in fact they're not interested in anything but party interests, but nothing else. To continue with the fingers in the honey, as it has been so far. It's the only interest and nothing else. It's all covered by the veil of great regional, democratic, and I don't know what other interests. So, according to this, aside from our political passion, our political struggle, the autonomy of Vojvodina is guaranteed by the Constitution. In accordance with the Constitution and the positive laws will be implemented in action. All that the Constitutional Court has declared and everything that has been said that certain legal norms are contrary to the Constitution, and norms cannot even be implemented into action. It's our job, it's our responsibility, and we don't have any other options. This is how we have to act, because so responsible people, responsible authorities are the only ones who can and can only treat their citizens and their institutions. I will remind you that this year, as an example, and that will end, we have had several important festivals in Novi Sad, several important dates that we marked, especially in November of the month, on the entry of the Serbian army and on the dates of the accession of Baka, Banat and Srem Serbia. At many of these celebrations, some were, and some were not representatives of the province's administration. What was the reason they didn't attend? They had, they say, a physiological problem to be present with some of the other parties. I guess it's because they lost power in the northern Serbian capital. I don't know what their physiological problems are, but I only know how many problems they've created for the citizens of Vojvodina and for the citizens of Serbia. I guess they don't need anyone to get into them, but I feel that kind of human contempt and resistance to those who think they're so irresponsible, and I guess because they're somewhere above us, I guess because they're smarter, better or more urban, because they've assigned it to themselves in the previous period, they have the right to humiliate us in every way, that in every way, they're talking about all the other citizens of Serbia, about the people of Vojvodina with mistreatment. I have to tell you, this practice is breaking up. They're not superhumans, and we're their servants. The idea that it is possible, using and abusing the political power and money of the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia, in the future, that film will no longer be able to watch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5637	Thank you. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5638	The whole debate today was dedicated to this key topic of division with us. Indeed, when the situation is seen at different levels of government and the situation of reactions to the verdicts that have come from the UN tribunal, which you have talked about, where I believe that everyone is finally clear about what the attitude is and what the policy of the West towards Serbia is, unfortunately, this very situation of judgments and the atmosphere created in certain local self-governments, in the AP Vojvodina, tells us that we will find it difficult to establish this through the necessary unity on basic matters, which as a society and as a people we need to agree on. Someone here mentioned funding. How would the public react that significant funds have been allocated to help our citizens who have been hit by the UN tribunal? Perhaps those who are now running the issue here would react in the same way as when the 2004 Hague Tribunal Family Assistance Act was passed. It was one general hysteria against all those in the National Assembly who passed the law. These are real examples of who these people are and what segments of society that deepen division and which, unfortunately, will not help bring our society together. I believe that this very message that we have heard now, that the Constitution is the most important and sacred legal act of a state, will be fully respected, regardless of what level it is applied to, whether it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether it is the question of KIM, whether it is Vojvodina or local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5639	Thank you. Given that it is now nineteen hours and almost twenty minutes, we are finishing our work on asking parliamentary questions. I thank you all for your participation. I'm setting a five-minute break, and after that, we'll get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5640	Please continue your work. Please, let's get started. Just to remind you that we have begun the amendment debate on Article 6 which was filed by the AP Assembly. The registered speaker was Mr. Mikovic. Do you want a word? I'm sorry, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic reports after his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5641	Thank you. Mr President, it is my duty to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 109 and Article 110 of Vice-President Kovac, it is my duty to point out that you are not personally, but it is necessary because of further procedures within the framework of the work of the Serbian Parliament to say that, by doing so, it has interrupted MP Janko Radakovic from the DS, it has taken away his word without any basis, nor was it justified in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ambassador Radakovic addressed Deputy Prime Minister Vukic in question form. Not a word he said was an insult, nor anything else that would allow his word to be taken away. This is the roughest thing we've ever experienced on the long list of incompetences of Vice President Kovac. I have to point out that this was the reason for the DS MPs to leave this room because the government of Ms. Kovac did not want to allow an unpleasant question related to the disclosure of the details of organized crime. All the appeals of Mr. Vukic, as we came out of this room, fall into the water because Mrs. Kovac had already taken the word of our messenger. Therefore, such qualifications should not be presented. At the same time, she did not react at any time when Mr. Vukic spoke offensively to DS MPs, spoke and mentioned the term "insulted bride". The Deputy Prime Minister who does not suffer any criticism is the last one who can use that term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5642	To me, Mr. Stefanovic, let me ask you, do you want to make a statement on the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5644	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5645	I support the amendment tabled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina for the reasons that we must respect the Constitution. Just now, the last three hours of work of the Assembly practically every other speaker spoke of the need for strict respect of the Constitution. It was also present in speeches between the government's representatives, that there was no game with respect to the Constitution. I need to read two members of the Constitution, Article 71. – that everyone has the right to education, basic education is mandatory and free of charge, and secondary education is free of charge. It's the responsibility of the central authorities. It can't be about the old AP Vojvodina, it can't be about funding from AP Vojvodina's funds, it can be about what's in the Constitution. One more thing, I'd like to get an answer, in which way the operations of the local self-government unit can be financed from AP Vojvodina's funds, unless it's about the jobs that the AP entrusted to local self-government units in terms of doing business in its jurisdiction. Article 188. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its position 4 clearly states that the operations of the local self-government units are financed from the original incomes of the units of local self-government of the Republic of Serbia's budget in accordance with the law and budget of the AP, but only when the AP entrusted the units of local self-government to carry out operations under its jurisdiction in accordance with the AP assembly's decision. So there is no possibility if we respect the Constitution to pass the draft budget law as it is given, and there are all reasons to adopt the amendment of the AP Vojvodina, because that is the only way we will agree the bill with the text of the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5646	Thank you. The replica was reported by MP Janko Radakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5647	The Honorable Chairman, I have reported after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 207 concerning the question of MPs. I read – after the answer to the parliamentary question has been given, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum of three minutes on the answer to his question, or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. I was interrupted by your colleague, the chairman, Mrs. Kovac, within 30 seconds. She wouldn't let me say what I was about to say, so she could talk to me again, so I can go back to him for two minutes. The most harshly broken Rules of Procedure, and I ask that in the day of voting, a statement be made, since, as Mrs. Kovac put it, she took her word away from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5648	Do you insist that in the voting day we make a statement about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5649	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5650	The People's Parliament of Theodora Vlahovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5651	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, I support the amendment of the AP Vojvodina and I have submitted to this article on my own the amendment, especially in the part relating to the transfer of local self-government. In fact, this amendment makes it clear that the resources allocated to the AP budget are actually transfer funds. The minister said it was 55%. According to the province's accounts, when they sat down to balance the positions they could from this budget, the draft budget law was recorded, it was 66% of the transfer funds, which is another violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We now have a minimum monthly to pass a law that directly violates one of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, my apparition of the amendment went to local self-government, and it is a decision of the Constitutional Court in which one of the disputed powers in the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction was the jurisdiction of the part of the local self-government. So, there's no denying the province of the Vojvodina of its municipalities, far from it, because actually municipalities and nothing gets by the transfer of funds. This is a certain amount and realistic for all those who do not know what transfer means in this case, it means that in the mass Republic transfers to the AP Vojvodina budget funds for a specific local self-government or for education, etc., for salaries in education, and then with more orders the next day further transfers to local self-government, i.e. schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. For this reason, it is often mentioned here that the AP budget is actually a flow boiler through which the funds only flow through, where actually AP Vojvodina is made by service orders and divided by schools, i.e. by municipalities of the same means. What happened in the adoption of the budget system law when the base is unconstitutionally reduced, now we have another pressure on the province, that it cannot comply with Article 184. The constitution is that it plans its budget because the AP Vojvodina budget must be so allocated that three weeks of the budget is directed into capital investments. Here is the obvious intensity that, in fact, from these capital investments being made through the NIP, something is being built directly in Vojvodina, which is clear from Article 23. Proposal for a bill to be attributed subsequently to the Vojvodina budget as a capital investment made in Vojvodina. That's not the intensity of article 184. The Constitution. In this way, actually, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is devising itself. He's going to get a budget he can't decide on, he's going to get a budget he's going to overwrite, he's going to continue to direct, and he can't create. So these capital investments should be directed directly and decided by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. What is worrying, and what is trying to imply to us MPs who are talking about these transfers, is that at the same time we are implicated not to worry about local self-government, and in this draft budget law, what is the worst thing about government amendments, much more than the draft budget law, those amendments where MPs could no longer put amendments, were introduced rigorously, according to local self-governments. These measures relate to the suspension of complete transfers, parts of taxes for a certain period of time, a very imprecise term, incorrectly defined in which way. It is forgotten that the legs of small municipalities from various unforeseen situations will not be able to meet some of their obligations and that they do not have enough of their own income, that they can get out of some situations, which means that the municipality will be blocked. If it is thought that the province's local officials will be punished in this way, it is a minor problem, and the biggest problem that in these municipalities, and also in the province, which is exclusively linked to the funds that it receives, because there are no original incomes, could be a collapse, and this financial collapse will predominantly affect the lives of citizens in the AP Vojvodina and local self-governments, not only in Vojvodina, but in Serbia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5652	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5653	The same situation as the amendment to Article 1. The LSVM has submitted a very similar amendment, as submitted by the government of Vojvodina. The arguments are the same as for the previous amendments, so I would not waste the time of the parliamentary group, especially because I look forward to a debate on the amendment submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic to article 21 which will be particularly interesting, and only an additional explanation, although it is obvious that the finance minister has no intention of hearing and respecting the arguments that come from DS MPs, LSVM, LDP and I fear that, even my colleagues will not have a day to vote to understand these arguments. This amendment consists of two parts. The first part is the one that predicts that part of the excise, a certain percentage of excise duties charged in the AP Vojvodina are coming into the AP Vojvodina budget. The quasi argument made by Minister Mladjan Dinkic is that nowhere in the world it is not a practice, so nowhere in the world is the practice that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the Constitution of a country it is not a practice, there is such a provision that there is no idea what the budget is, and nowhere in the world is the practice of not knowing what 7% is, just as nowhere in the world is the practice that the finance minister claims that 7% of 956 billion is less than 7% of 817 billion. It's one thing we can't figure out, probably because it's illogical. The second part of the amendment is this disastrous practice that has existed so far in the Serbian Parliament, which the Social Democrats League has pointed out for years, I do not know how many times I have spoken in this assembly about how many different transfer funds are constantly being put into the AP Vojvodina budget, so that it seems bigger and that the figure belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget is increased, and that they are not actually funds that the AP can have. It's a very bad practice, it's a disastrous practice that the government had and the one before it, but now it's falling into the water hope that when the regionalists finally begin to allocate funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, that disastrous practice will change. Instead of this injustice against the citizens of Vojvodina that we have been pointing to for years, we have a situation that it is now increased, because it is based on which these famous 7% are calculated, yet reduced, so I would really no longer want to waste my time or the authorised representative or the parliamentary group. It is obvious that the minister has no intention of respecting these arguments, that colleagues have no intention of respecting them, and therefore we believe that the budget will be absolutely counter-constitutional and we will certainly raise the issue of its constitutionality before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5654	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with my previous colleagues that the Constitution should be respected. The constitution is the law of all laws and is especially respected for the MPs of the National Assembly, respecting that constitution would be a sort of sacred. I immediately wonder if this respect for the Constitution should be two-way or one-way. Should only be respected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or the constitution should also be respected by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. The next question is, can we respect the Constitution a little bit, a bit, when we need it, then we will respect it, and when we don't mind, then we won't respect it, if I don't talk about the way the Constitutional Court was formed and established, whose proposals and far from that would lead us, but it certainly wasn't formed on a proposal or on a parliamentary group that I currently belong to, or my People's Peasants' Party, especially. The decisions of that constitutional court when they do not respond, individuals in the AP Vojvodina welcome the knife, threaten internationalization, and the senior officials of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. people sitting in institutions such as the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and such as the Government of the AP Vojvodina. Also, concerning the Constitutional Court, the Constitution, should I ask when this constitution was brought? As I recall, in 2006 or someone was not informed that this constitution was brought in or only read the other day. So this constitution has been valid since 2006 and the allocation of funds to the Vojvodina budget and the Serbian budget has been done in the same way as I have understood so far, with 15 billion if I understood more than the previous year well. If the Constitution was not respected before, how come this subsequent mind that the Constitution was not respected only in the last few months, and it was as if it had been respected before, and I had already proved that it was not the case. I also want to say that when there is a vote, let the gentlemen of the former regime count the votes of the Vojvodina and then they will see how much support they actually have in Vojvodina. Count the votes of only the messengers who live in Vojvodina, and you will see that you will lose. Not because we love the Duke less. Many of us are disappointed, given that those 7%, especially those three weeks were not used for the purpose for which they were intended, according to some of us in Vojvodina, about the government in Novi Sad acted exactly as Slobodan Milosevic treated Vojvodina. In doing so, many of the Dukes were disappointed by those who had recently exercised power in the Republic and the province. As they exercised power in both the Republic and the province, nothing bothered them, no division bothered them, no violation of the Constitution bothered them. Now all of a sudden, in the last three months, it's like a newspaper, like they just read the Constitution. So, I think it's about defending the government in Vojvodina, about the reserve, the last trench of the former regime, and it's almost unacceptable for me that the duchy MPs are talking about everything, but when it comes to the amendment to Article 1 that passed, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, where they predicted that the agricultural budget from 41 billion to 29 billion would be reduced to 29 billion, so nobody wants to talk about it. The money that would mostly come into the hands of a farmer in Vojvodina, someone wanted to move from there to the government of Vojvodina. I cannot support such a thing, no matter what my party, I have already said, I have been a pioneer in advocating that Vojvodina has the autonomy, therefore, of constitutional autonomy it now has. We know very well where the autonomy of the Vojvodina is, where it stops, and where the state becomes. I'm afraid this is about something else, that some people only think about where the state of Serbia goes away, and that's not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5656	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5657	In accordance with Article 104. I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to suggest that the draft budget clearly proposes that the AP Vojvodina budget be provided with transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is dedicated transfers to finance expenditures for education employees, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in the amounts set out in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5658	Excuse me, Mr. Mikovic, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5659	Yes, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5660	I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5661	Article 104 regulates the right of MPs to reply. I made it clear which member I was answering for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5662	Please, also in this next article, it is said that the replica is approved by the chairman, and he appreciates whether you have the right to reply or not. Therefore, please, you have no right to a replica. You are not called, you are not an authorised representative, your party is not called and I beg you, you have no right to reply. You can do it by your business, that's how you signed up. You've abused, and we have the right to give a measure. You abused yourself, you called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you started a replica. Then here's to the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5663	I misread it. I said I'm calling on Article 104. Now I'm calling on Article 27. Give me your word. I appeal to Rule 27, that the chairman is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure define if the MP misreads his exposure. The previous speaker misread my presentation, and I was the only one who spoke in agreement with the Constitution, and I believe I have the right to provide an explanation in that regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5664	Mr. Mikovic, this is about procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5665	That's exactly what I'm
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5666	Please, you didn't ask for a replica, but you signed up based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I gave you my word. However, you were not talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but you started a replica, and that is why I challenge you. You had to be honest with me at first – I want a replica, then I would estimate whether you were right or not. Please, the point is, don't fool me, I'm not a fool, I'm sorry, but you're insulting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5667	On the upside, that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5668	Please don't. Therefore, I beg you, either speak of injury, or I ask you to give up further exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5669	I think the chairman, when he runs the session, must know, if he doesn't know personally, he has a professional face, which can give him an explanation if someone calls on Article 104. I said - based on Article 104. Rules of Procedure, I'm reporting for word. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure regulates the right to replica, we all know that. If we don't know, we can read it. I didn't mention anything else about it. I didn't say the word - by hurting the Rules of Procedure, but I said - I'm reporting by article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5670	You know well that I asked you whether it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you said yes. So, did you mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5671	Let's listen to the stenogram. That's not true. I said, "Article 104." Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5672	I won't let you. Please take a seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5673	I think that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5674	You know damn well I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5675	I know for a fact you're wrong, and the whole joke knows you're wrong. You can laugh. I asked for article 104 to speak. You can not give me the right to speak by Article 104...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5676	That's not what it's about, Mikovic. I love openness, and that's why I'm contesting it, so please don't argue, don't lead this to anything. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5677	Although the debate is essentially concerning this amendment, it is greatly exhausted under the amendments to Article 1. There may be better conditions here for the illustration of the the thesis that this is actually about the constructed problem of sticking thorns in a healthy leg, because look at the urgency in the proposer's argument – that from the total volume of the rural autonomy budgets, those funds that have to be spent on trusted jobs in the jurisdiction of the state are being charged, so where does it come from? Every local self-government in Serbia also receives transfer funds from the Republic to carry out those jobs that constitute the right of citizens, guaranteed by the state, of course, because it is so cheaper, more economical. The state will not establish bodies throughout its territory, but will trust lower levels of government to carry out such transactions and provide funds for it. A logic in which we would be such an asset, which is not in the essential, informal sense, completely autonomous, because we cannot arbitraryly determine their purpose, declare them inadequate, be careful what that would mean for the Republic of Serbia. I don't know right now about this budget which is the budget, once we did it for the past year or the previous year, 84% of the funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget go for legal obligations and legally guaranteed rights of citizens and legal persons. Those fifteen percent, it's the space in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the government's creative policy. So, of course, budgets and local self-government, natural and rural autonomy, means one part of which is not arbitrary, each time re-determined, but represents an obligation to perform, one law already established. I think such an argument, just as you would have just said about advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is obviously invalid, but that it is very eager to construct an argument to justify the thesis, that the constitutional norm has been broken. If there's anything I can do to understand, it's my pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5678	Thank you. The word is Srdjan Mikovic, on what grounds, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5679	I'm reporting again under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a replica, because it's been mentioned again...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5680	Now it's clear. Please look for a replica after you've mentioned it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5681	I have explicitly read the position of the bill. I read what was defined in article 71 on the right to education. The fact is that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has proposed that, with regard to the transfer from the Republic of Serbia's budget, there remain a dedicated transfer to finance expenditure for high education employees in the AP Vojvodina territory as set out in this law. So what it can be, because what for primary education and secondary education can't be strictly followed by the Constitution and if we define what needs to be regulated at the level of the central authorities. That's one thing. The second thing, as regards the second proposal in the draft budget law, the government proposed that dedicated and non-intentional transfers to local self-government units in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government, I pointed out that there is no possibility if we strictly respect Article 180. The Constitution and that position 4. - transactions and units of local self-government are financed from the original incomes of the units of local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and from the budget of the autonomous province only when the autonomous province entrusted the units of local self-government to carry out the tasks of its jurisdiction, precisely by proposing what the Vojvodina Assembly has given, transfers for confidential transactions in accordance with the law determining the competences of the AP Vojvodina. So, absolutely respects the Constitution by the proposed amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and if we declare the draft budget, as set out in the proposal of the Government, we will violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5682	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Mr Svetislava Bulajić. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5683	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the circuit assembly, I see that Mr. Minister is not here in the benches, but I will still make my views on the amendment that my parliamentary group submitted to this draft budget law for 2013. The entire day's debate on the financing of Vojvodina has obviously grown beyond the framework of the 2013 budget debate, and this only shows that funding of the Vojvodina is a political issue. Here I agree with you, Mr. Minister, this is a political issue, and we really cannot resolve the question of whether Vojvodina is getting what is right, whether Vojvodina is also carrying the burden of the economic crisis, as are all the other parts of this country. So, not entering these elements of the debate, and otherwise I support the overall argument made by LSV MPs, SVM, DS, as well as representatives of the circuit assembly. We support these amendments submitted by the circuit assembly to this draft budget law. I would also briefly comment on my amendment that somehow fits into all these amendments and this policy on the province's relations with the Republic and this return relationship of the Republic to the province when it comes to financing it. In particular, Article 6(1) states that the AP Vojvodina's budget belongs and then states what belongs to everything, and in point 2 it is said that the AP Vojvodina budget provides transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So it's clear now from this debate and your reply, Mr. Minister, that you've made about all the proposals of us from the province of Vojvodina that there's no political will here to change something about the transfer of funds from the Republic's budget and, regardless of the violation of the Constitution and everything else that's been talked about, to leave out that segment of this amendment, let's just focus on what's right. If Vojvodina represents 1/3 of Serbia's territory, if there is 1/3 of the population of this Serbia living in Vojvodina, and we assume that Vojvodina is also filling the budget in the republic, is it not quite normal that, in addition to all that is stated here in attitude 1, what does it belong to, in addition to the income tax on citizens and despite the company's tax, we add excise duties in a certain percentage that is achieved in the Vojvodina territory? So there is no problem in this position to add one third indent to this Article 6 and thus avoid that kind of injustice that was done to Vojvodina when it decided to save something on the republican budget when it comes to transfers to the province of Vojvodina. Once again, I underline, unless there is a political will to transfer to us what belongs to us under the Constitution from the Republic's budget, then let us do a little bit more than that you will adopt the amendments to the Regional Assembly, the amendment to the LDP or any amendment coming from SVM, LSV or DS, which are aimed at correcting this kind of violation of the Constitution, because this is a constitutional and legal problem when looking at this concept of constitutional solutions regarding the financing of the Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5684	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5685	They repeat once again that we have rejected the amendment, not because there is no political will, but because there is no economic logic to accept. There is absolutely no logic that oil produced in Panchev and spent in Nis, Smedereva, Užica or wherever in Serbia's territory is left in the province's budget. What's the logic here? Tell me, what does that have to do with political will? With this amendment, you're asking for, say, those who smoke tobacco products in Prepolje and leave money to the province. What difference does it make? You're looking for nebulose indeed. It doesn't make any economic sense. What black political will? What are you talking about? This is about a pointless amendment that we refused for economic reasons. It's pointless for a consumption tax to be poured into place towards the territory. You can direct profit tax according to the territory, as you did - 43% of the profit tax remains for the province. Profit tax remains 80% of municipalities and 18% of provinces. Accize and VAT, especially excise? I've given you an example of whether there's a refinery in central Serbia's territory? There isn't. What does that mean? Everyone who spends fuel in this country if it's domestic production needs one piece to be left in the country's budget. What logic is that? What does that have to do with political will? One who would have such a political will is not normal. It doesn't make any sense. I repeat once again, transfers carried out during the previous period of the AP Vojvodina through the republican budget for education, as well as for local self-government, have been done backwards for years. Since 2003, funds for education and several years back have also been treated in the same way as funds transferred to local self-government. The basic question that we were asking today, and when was this interpretation, was answered by Vice President Vukic. I'm surprised nobody said anything about it then, but some of them escaped from here. It was simple – the Constitution must be respected, but don't set any double standards now and have an artificial topic, because if no one has ever thought to ask a constitutional question – an initiative to break the Constitution in 2010, 2011 and 2012 when the budget was distributed in exactly the same way, you today spend half the working time of the RS Assembly suffocating the exact same story that doesn't make any sense for political reasons. I don't know what your policy is, but it's economically pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5686	The word is made by the MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5687	Dear Chairman, did you hear my question to you, what did Minister Dinkic say earlier? (President: Yes, I heard.) ) Have you heard that Minister Dinkic used the term that the amendment submitted by the AP Vojvodina is nebulous? (President: said pointlessly. He said nebulous. I suggest that if Minister Dinkic continues this way as he interrupted the session the other day threatening the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to interrupt this session and to work in some period when he will be decent and when he will communicate with the MPs in a dignified manner. At this time he doesn't do it. On the other hand, he said we got out of the O.R. We didn't escape from the O.R., we had already left the O.R. because your predecessor refused to give a word, or he took away a word from an MP who wanted to ask an unpleasant question to the Deputy Prime Minister, who wanted to ask a question out of his jurisdiction. We didn't escape from the O.R. This now goes beyond all measures. So, the Constitution is being violated by this Budget Law. You won't let us talk. You're allowing the Minister to insult us. You're really too much of a President, no matter what they told you today, that you're seducing some other order in the assembly. I really think you should have warned the minister not to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5688	I ask the Minister to avoid, in defence of the arguments of certain amendments, words that may be misread or hurt by the applicant of the amendment. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Excuse me. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. I implore the messengers that anyone who is not patient to hear an MP leave the room more politely. Let's hear it. It's hard to hear from each other anyway, and it's not polite to have private conversations while the MP speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5689	Thank you. First, I report to the Rules of Procedure and then to Article 106. I'll give you some time to cheer up and make it easy, and then we'll move on. It's completely understandable. I really don't feel like laughing. It's been eight hours. I've been listening very closely to the debate all day, and now I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure under Rule 106. I really can't swallow, Mr. Minister. When you were talking about the MPs, I assume you were thinking about me, since you called in to replicate after my presentation, you probably directed that time at me by the guilloting that I would not particularly like to comment on. I believe that the dignity of this assembly has been violated, because here I represent one political option. I am the MP here in this House. Therefore, the function of the MP must be respected and respected by the minister and everyone in this room. We must treat each other with respect, because only in that case can we maintain the integrity of this institution. I think I've talked a lot about what kind of problems this Serbia has with institutions and destroying the dignity of institutions and destroying institutions as a whole as something that forms the basis of a single rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5690	Mrs. Judith, have you finished breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5691	There's just one more thing to add. It would not be the first time that Mr. Minister, during the debate on this 2013 budget, has treated MEPs in a very strange way. I really don't understand Mr. Secretary's position. He came to parliament after all. He didn't come to some gym. He didn't come to some bar. He came to parliament and then go ahead, Mr. Minister, act in accordance with the code that should apply in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5692	I have asked the minister, and I believe that this will no longer happen to explain the views in the chosen words. Do you insist on voting on that in the voting day? (National MP Judita Popovic of the post: You have confirmed with your statement that Parliament's dignity has been violated. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić. Excuse me, the word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5693	Thank you. I also think that this is a political debate today, and by raising a false budget dilemma, there is a real problem, and this is a catastrophic situation in Vojvodina, Vojvodina Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund. With my colleague, Shandor, I was an MP in the circuit assembly for the past four years. In those four years, there was never an initiative to submit amendments to the budget. So I ask: Why, were they not allowed, why were they silent, and how did they now remember that they were breaking the Constitution? That is why we had and should have voted in favour of the recapitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank, to cover the debts of the Capital Investment Fund. The Vojvodina will not be cut off by nine billion. She'll get six billion more. The truth is, the basis used by Cvetkovic's government was 750 billion, and now it's the basis of 837 billion. For the first time we know clearly how much Vojvodina will get, if this money doesn't transfer to Vojvodina, then I think you have the right to criticise the finance minister, and I will criticise him if he doesn't, no matter what comes from my party. I will also sharply criticise the way these funds are spent in Vojvodina. I'll criticise it if it recapitalises "Vojvodine Development Bank", if the municipalities are forced to pay back the money, or the debts of the Capital Investment Fund, if it gives most of the money to Novi Sad, because we've seen it through so-called. the top 20 projects of the Fund, although I wouldn't call them that, more than 50% of the money was poured right into Novi Sad. We from small municipalities, what were we doing? We've been paying back our debts. I say this on behalf of thousands of those who live in small towns in Vojvodina, who were born here, who went to school here, adults and who live there with their families, who, like me, want to stay here to live, but to live politely and have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5694	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5695	The stretching of all concepts, moral, political, and significant, of which politics is prone to us, cannot alter the stubborn fact that meanings are completely objective. It's not anybody's impression of what it means, but it's a fully established objective fact, which we all met when we were working as students exams from foreign languages, because we couldn't translate the meaning of the offered sentence as it might seem to be, but exactly what those words mean. In that sense, there is nothing absolutely offensive in the said word "unbulous", which would mean – incomprehensible, vague, incomprehensible. That even stemmed from respect for the promoter. If we make a little joke, this proposal is actually sheretical, because the promoter himself is aware of how unacceptable it is for a serious discussion. I'll explain it to you this way -- let's assume what would happen if the government accepted the amendment. It would alter the text in Article 6, reduce the obligations for which money is transferred, and not change the numerical part of the budget, so it would transfer that money. So, constructively to us, with political assurance that it is a violation of the Constitution, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina proposes that we freely transfer the money to her, but not in those responsibilities, but to reduce them. This does not seem convincing, except in the context of this analysis that we are offering, it is not really a political-legal issue, but that it is a political-party state that needs to provoke crisis and tension.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5696	Please, just let me intervene. This isn't the province's amendment. This is the amendment of the MP. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Replic on whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5697	With regard to Mr. Minister, I have called on the 107th member on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the discussion of a fellow member's injury, and I can replicate... First of all, I'd point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5698	You can't replicate. You can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5699	Okay. The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. That's one thing. The second question is the dignity of the National Assembly itself, because I was just one of the main advocates of why the amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and the amendments that go in that direction should be accepted. Mr. Secretary has declared that something doesn't make sense. In any case, unless it makes sense for the excise to be divided in the manner proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the question is whether 5% of the province's budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5700	I won't allow you a replica, and you've moved on to the replica. At least I can tell the difference. Thank you. Also, your time is up. Thank you. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you insist, we can decide on a voter's day. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5701	Dear Vice President, I apologize, but the system doesn't work at all. I've been reported since the previous debate, when I expected an answer to my question, so I didn't apply now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5702	I'm sorry. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5703	To take the opportunity to answer your question. The funds for the local community, you asked as a question both during the debate on the budget and during this interpretation. By abolishing their own incomes and the Republic authorities no longer have their own incomes, and neither do municipal authorities, including local communities. All those funds, which were once the revenues of local communities, became the revenues of municipalities and cities. So cities and municipalities get these funds. Those funds are not missing, they are not being transferred to the Republic. They remained within the same municipality where they had been collected earlier at the level of local communities. All municipalities should now transfer this amount of funding to specific decisions to local communities and thus there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5704	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I belong to those mediocre writing people and I am not ashamed to admit it, but whenever I read this amendment, I cannot enter into its essence. I tried with a lot of perseverance and will to interpret what the promoter wanted to say. It says here – part of the excise on fuel and cigarettes of 43% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Now I don't know who's gonna find out who's smoking where? That's what I'm telling you most seriously, because cigarettes have excise stamps. So, the finance ministry only makes sure that excise duty is collected by the number of excise stamps sold. Who will determine which smoking commission will determine which cigarettes have been smoked on the territory of Vojvodina and which in Serbia's territory? This amendment if adopted, we'd practically have to educate that commission. If I buy cigarettes in Zemun and smoke them in India, I ask, "Who should I pay for that excise?" This amendment does not make it clear. I see the people of the government of Vojvodina are uncomfortable, and I'm uncomfortable. Mr. Minister, you try to explain yourself. I really don't get it here. Let me get to the gas, since this blow job is already starting to make you sick. On the issue, if I pour a tank in Belgrade and accidentally drive to Panchev, I ask – who do I have to pay for the excise, or who should be able to collect the excise and who would control what territory that fuel was spent on? What do I mean? The amendment does not specify whether excises are collected where cigarettes are produced, whether they are sold or consumed, or smoke. Also, it is not clear from this amendment whether this amendment applies to part of the fuel in the refineries where it is processed, then it is a very large income, whether where it is poured or where it is used. I really think that's a very difficult question. The question may be answered by the former province finance minister, who recently passed away. I think he could answer a lot of things about incomes and expenditures in Vojvodina. Unfortunately, the man died recently, so we remained deprived of many answers. So, this amendment is not clear to me, as I understand nothing about the Vojvodine Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund, as I understand nothing from this. So I'd like the minister to explain to me, if that was funny, how would we determine where they consume and where they should pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5706	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Srdjan Mikovic, Sinisa Lazic, Radoslav Milovanovic and Ljuban Panic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5707	Chairman, I can see that you're having a very good time on this subject and that you find it funny what the MPs are saying, and in some ways they treat this congregation a little bit. This isn't the time for any jokes. I believe that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed, is against the constitution, is contrary to the basic principles of the Constitution. When it comes to the amendments that we have submitted together, it is the fact that the commitment of the AP Vojvodina was given and the transfer of non-purpose funds to local self-government which, if we have read the Law on the financing of local self-government, is not the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I'll take some time from the MP's group. However, I am not sure that this amendment makes sense, given the fact that the Republic Government intervened on the basic text of the budget until the very beginning of the principle debate, when the time for submitting the amendments was up. Tonight we're kind of familiar with the fact, Miss Jerkov said something about it, but I think this is the previous question, the question of all the questions. The fact is that the government has accepted the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group, namely the DSS MPs, which speaks of the possibility of the AP Vojvodina and this kind of budget being given, i.e. the funds being given, given conditionally and there is the possibility that there are no reliable sources of funding, as some of these sources of funding may be denied by the Republic Government. I ask Minister Dinkic – is it true that the government accepted the amendment to Article 21. The budget law, which says that if there is a need for financial intervention for the consolidation of the Vojvodine Development Bank, or for the payment of the secured deposits of this bank, falls on the burden of the Republic of Serbia, the same amount will suspend the transfer of the corresponding part of the income tax and taxes on the profits of the AP Vojvodina's company? If that's true, the AP Vojvodina for this reason won't be able to bring its budget, because the revenue side won't be certain and I'm not sure that this case has ever been recorded in the practice of budgeting, so to speak, in any country. I would like to hear from the minister – is it true that this amendment of the DSS has been accepted? If that's true, there's really been a disenfranchisement on this subject, when it comes to the basis for the AP Vojvodina budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5708	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5709	Yes, this amendment was accepted, as you heard and saw in the text you read. There's nothing to add. We hope this situation doesn't happen. The Democratic Party of Serbia said if such a situation occurs, if the Republic of Serbia had to pay the secured deposits amounting to 120m euros to the Vojvodina Development Bank, then it is perfectly logical that, in addition to those 70 billion, if we add another 120m euros to it, it is logical that the Republic must make up for it through this way. We have accepted this amendment because we believe that the DSS amendment is very correct and economically justified, but we believe that this situation will not occur. And there's the regional secretary, and they assured us a few weeks ago that there's a great situation and there won't be any problems with that bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5710	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5711	I have nothing to say. Anyone who stopped by the Faculty of Law and studied law knows that budget standards are imperative norms and knows that it is not possible to draw up a budget based on dispositive norms that represent such expressed norms, as quoted by Mr Dinkic, in terms of – we believe, we hope, etc. If there is hope, if there is faith, the budget will be eliminated. If there is no such belief, the budget will not be realised. It is clear that the foreign budget, based on which the AP Vojvodina budget is made, is being made. He has been certain in this part so far, until the adoption of this amendment. However, if this amendment is accepted and accepted, as you said, the revenue side is uncertain. It will be reduced to the part to be engaged for these purposes listed in this amendment. I think this is final proof that this government has no good intentions when it comes to the AP Vojvodina budget, when it comes to constitutional stability of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to the constitutional position of the AP Vojvodina, and thus the constitutional position of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5712	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5713	Since there's also the regional secretary, we can clear it all up. This amendment was addressed by the DSS parliamentary group when the law entered the procedure. After that, we received a single initiative from the Provincial Government a few days ago, and it refers to the transfer of the Vojvodina Development Bank's deposits to a bank that would have taken over these deposits, under the law that this assembly passed, in the same way that we did in the case of "New Agrobank" and Postage Savings. As you know, I suggested it a month ago. That's when you and your MP group and other MP groups who are now supporting these amendments attacked me that I don't want well. Later, what I was saying was that Vojvodina Development Bank is not sustainable and that the best solution is that all deposits, and insured and unsecured, are transferred to one of the banks that would offer the most favourable conditions for the transfer. Secured deposits of 120m euros, totalling 70,000 depositors whose deposits are secured, as well as some hundreds of millions of euros of unsecured deposits. These are the budgets of the AP Vojvodina, the city of Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Kovin and many other municipalities in Vojvodina. The proposal has arrived to carry out the transfer of secured deposits and to issue together AP Vojvodina bonds for unsecured deposits, in proportion to the current participation in the Vojvodine Development Bank. So, the province 72%, the Republic of Serbia, 28%, by thus obtaining 28% of the right in the Vojvodina Development Fund, an institution that would be formed on the basis of the portfolio of the Vojvodina Credit Development Bank, which is one good part not chargeable, but that would be transferred to that development fund. That way, the Republic would have 28% in the Development Fund, 28% of the bonds would broadcast. The total amount of bonds that would be issued amounts to about 8 billion dinars. The province's proposal is to make five-year bonds, and we agree with that. The interest rate will set an auction between the banks that will receive the transfer. In other words, if this operation is carried out in the next period, we have agreement, and the province has given us the initiative. So I guess they agree with that, too, because they asked us to do it together. I think it's the most economical operation. In that case, this amendment will never have any legal force, since the transfer would take place by the end of this year in December. This amendment was accepted, if political particular interests were to overcome economic interests, if we had security, because in the event of the bankruptcy of Vojvodina Development Bank, which would be pointless if the bank went into bankruptcy when we could save all deposits in this way, the Republic would have to pay 120m euros in secured deposits. In that case, we would have charged through the suspension of the transfer of money from profit tax and from the income tax. Given everything I've said, I don't think there's any danger of such a case. Such a case can only arise for some inexplicable political reason that we will not do on the political side, and we hope that the province will not do so either. Given this discussion that's been going on about these amendments and all that we've had so far, we can't be sure that we know that this will be done in this economically comprehensive way. We wanted to say, the insurance of all citizens of Serbia, who are essentially paying interest on the previous bonds that the previous Republic government issued, that we have the assurance that in the event of some irresponsible political behaviour, the Republic will not be damaged. We do not expect this to happen, given that the province has submitted this initiative. It's the first time I've made it public. I believe this transaction will take place in the next days and weeks.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5714	Mr. Veselinović, I don't want to discuss Article 21. So when we get to Article 21, we'll discuss it. Now it's on the agenda, Article 6. Please, if you have any replicas about it, please, but if it's about Article 21, please give it up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5715	Chairman, I respect the desire to talk about a member, a subject on the agenda. I said this was a previous question. In that sense, allow me just a few sentences. They are linked because the budget of the Republic of Serbia is no longer such an act submitted to the MPs. So this amendment confirmed what I was talking about at the beginning of the session, which is that adjustments were made to which we couldn't react. I agree, Mr Dinkic, there is now a discussion between the province's representatives and Minister Dinkic. When I pointed out the inaccuracies in the government's conduct and resolute minister when it came to Vojvodina and Vojvodina Development Bank, it referred to the fact that the minister was jeopardising the stability of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" with his statements. In that sense, I reacted. I do not dispute the possibility of reaching an agreement on important issues. However, I believe that by introducing such a provision into the budget, it is not a matter of trust, but of not knowing the basic legal norms that the budget does not allow, as such an act. A provision like this could have been introduced into a law that regulated the issue, which concerns individual banks, which was first applied to Agrobank, and not to make such a provision into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I won't answer my word again. The minister has indeed given a very precise answer, and for us all this is news, but I believe that such a provision has no place in the Republic of Serbia's budget and I believe that representatives of the province would not accept such a thing. Of course, no one asked them. I find this extremely against all the rules of normity when it comes to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5716	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5717	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would react to what we heard from Mr. Secretary. I'll be very brief. This is where the masks fell. We see two political options, because there were stories here about the need to punish some political particularism. This political particularism is called democracy, because citizens living in Vojvodina voted for the power they voted for. We see today those political options, which have either been censored very little above it, which today show by this amendment that they want to punish the duchess for their political stance. Legally, we've heard, this provision that we're talking about is completely against the constitution. I'd like to look back on the economic aspect and that would be the end of it. The Vojvodina Development Bank, like any other bank, could not withstand this kind of pressure when the finance minister says it is insecure to hold deposits there. We know what a coincidence is. On the other hand, suspending one transfer because one institution has such or such results which leads to it enlightening in Vojvodina, if the losses were large, they could not get paid. That means this amendment. For those who have not understood, that is precisely because other functions provided for by the Constitution and by law can lead to what is constitutional and legally binding could not be done because someone wants political retribution for those who did not vote well. In the end, that development bank doesn't just have the Deponents of Vojvodina. She's got a network that's bigger than the AP Vojvodina territory. That's a Serbian question. I think you can see here that behind some mask of regionalism or decentralisation there's something that's a bright desire to control all those who haven't voted as some wanted to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5718	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5719	Things are much simpler than your complicated words. The first thing, losses of the 150m-euro "Vojvodine Development Bank" occurred on 30.06.2012, before the new government was formed. If we're talking about the impact of a word on the state of the bank, that's a fact. So, the loss didn't arise in the period of forming a new government until today, but by June 30th this year. There are 150m euros in capital missing to meet the conditions under the Banks Act. What's the fact is the matter of saving the deposits of Vojvodina Development Bank. I offered that a month and a half ago. Then the province wouldn't hear or she wouldn't understand. If I'd been guided by some party interests, I probably wouldn't have offered that. I've been taking care of the state's interests. So what we need to do is transfer and secure deposits and unsecured, and that way we'll have the exact same archaic both in the case of the New Agrobank and in the case of Vojvodina Development Bank. The new bank, the depositor, will regularly continue to pay off those deposits, as was the case with the Post Office Savings. Whoever's been talking about what's going to happen now and how it's gonna end, you can see that this whole operation has been very successful and that now all the depositors are free to have their money. The same will happen in this case. The circuit government has now accepted this proposal that we had a month and a half ago. We offered before to even cover up to 50% of unsecured deposits. Now we have accepted what the province has suggested, that it be proportionate to our own participations, so 28% we will participate in this transfer. This amendment, however, makes full sense and means only one thing. In the case of Vojvodina Development Bank, which we believe will not come because of what I've been talking about, 120m euros would cover the Republic. So we'd have to spend money we didn't plan on. If you're saying that the province has a uncertainty that the situation might happen that they weren't planning something, it doesn't occur to you that the Republic has a uncertainty that the situation might be losing 120m euros. In the event of bankruptcy, it does not cover the AP of Vojvodina 70,000 depositors, but all secured deposits up to 50,000 euros must be paid by law by the Republic, and we did not plan for the 2013 budget. Isn't that uncertainty? Why is it that such a double archaic, when you speak of the province, for the sake of the province, and for the damage of the Republic? I guess it's the same country. Therefore, the DSS has given one responsible amendment that in the case and only in the case of damage to the Republic of Serbia, which is not planned for this budget, that damage is compensated, because the damage is not a result of a natural disaster, but of the bad management of the bank in the previous period. That is why we have accepted, with great pleasure, this amendment, because we respect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who would essentially have to pay that money, as much as 120m euros in bankruptcy. Of course, we hope that now that she has made this proposal, the province will actually implement it with us. We don't need much time to do that and then save the secured deposits, but also unsecured, because in the event of bankruptcy, all these deposits and the AP Vojvodina and the municipalities would be permanently captured. There's not much you can charge from the bankruptcy. That's why now, unlike a month and a half ago, the new proposal of the province is completely reasonable and we will accept it. We have already discussed informally in the government, we are waiting for Bojan Pajtic to return from China, to sign an agreement and move on to this joint transfer, but there should be one amendment, because yet until this happens, we do not want to risk damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and so we have accepted him as a very responsible amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5720	The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5721	Of course not, I think this amendment has shown two things. First, a lack of understanding of the budget system and an attempt to abuse it for political purposes. Take, for example, an example, in any municipality, central Serbia, some public utility, where a political person is appointed to the head of the company, leads, God forbid, to a major ecological disaster, which will then have to launch the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will you and then say that in that municipality, because incompetent politicians have done something wrong, a transfer should be suspended? Yes or no? According to this logic, every time someone appointed by a politician or a state firm and has a problem, then all citizens of that municipality or that province should be punished. It is absurd and therefore this provision and this amendment are absolutely against constitutional and against the law. We saw one other thing, that there was an anti-Volume coalition of the URS and the DSS. That's what we saw, and I think all the citizens of the Vojvodina will recognize it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5722	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5723	Mr. Djelic, for four years you've been bringing here an anti-constitutional budget. For four years, you've voted against the constitutional squad about 7%, your party here, and you're talking about the anti-Volume coalition. You have cut down the citizens of Vojvodina for four years for the funds provided in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then who worked against the people of Vojvodina? Your representatives in Vojvodina. We only respected that provision during our government. Against every budget you've created here against the citizens of Vojvodina, we've voted. Now that you're not in power, you're supposed to have the courage to submit amendments and to talk about breaking the Constitution, while you've been breaking the Constitution all along, not applying the constitutional court's provisions, not abolishing anti-constitutional institutions, financing unconstitutional jurisdiction. That's the essential question. You've been making a maneuver here for days. While you're breaking the Constitution, you're accusing others of breaking the Constitution. It's your policy. Explain to the citizens how much they lost in four years of the anti-constitutional budget that your government has brought. Let's calculate those funds. That's what I'm talking about, not that you're giving us a lecture right now, what's constitutional and what's not constitutional. You're breaking the Constitution at every turn. We've been here for days discussing why you broke the Constitution and why you don't apply the Constitution. The Democratic Party of Serbia will not allow that kind of controversy. Every time you go out with the truth, we will attack them, and in particular we will insist on determining how the money was spent. It's here, apparently, a problem. That's what we're gonna talk about - how money was spent there. Everything through Sava and Danube was a ban on any institution that was supposed to exercise control.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5724	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Please, I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. The replica has an advantage over regular announcement. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5725	Chairman, I'm reporting under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Let's put the discussion back on the agenda and the member to be discussed, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5726	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5727	I've submitted that amendment here, although we're on Article 6, but we've already moved to 21. So, as my colleague Palalic said, the essence of the story is who manages it, who forms the "Vojvodina Development Bank". It is impossible for the government in Vojvodina to manage the "Vojvodine Development Bank" without guaranteeing its business for the management of the bank. I guess the point of the story is that if someone did the damage, they had to guarantee it with their means, and they can't guarantee it by my means of robbery from Vojvodina Development Bank. Where's that? Is there somewhere in the world that Serbia's budget guarantees embezzled funds from Vojvodina Development Bank without having the right to compensate for those funds that should be transferred if the "Development Bank" fails? How does the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, manage the "Vojvodine Development Bank"? The management is 100% by the government of Vojvodina, and you will not guarantee your budget, but guarantee the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's amazing. I think it is absolutely economically justified and responsible to protect citizens who do not live in Vojvodina and who are not to blame for someone squandering funds from the budget of Vojvodina Development Bank. If they will continue to do so, let the budget of the duchy parliament and the Vojvodina guarantee their savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5728	Thank you. Please, I asked you not to discuss Article 21. Now the replica and the debate began in accordance with Article 21 and on the agenda is Article 6. So we end up with a replica. When it comes to Article 21, we'll discuss it. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5729	Obviously, I missed something. Mr. Lapcevic is talking about some kind of robbery from Vojvodina Development Bank. Mr Dinkic had already had such trips in the previous period, saying that the Development Bank had failed, that the funds had been embezzled, and now we hear about some kind of bank robbery by the Vojvodina Development Bank. Mr Palalic is concerned about the final accounts of the province's institutions. There is a Vojvode Assembly final account, there is a DRI, there are some institutions in this country and it is not true that the institutions of the AP Vojvodina are outside the system of the Republic of Serbia. It's very carefully controlled by their work. So I ask, Mr. Chairman, that you react when there is absolute untruth here, because the people of the government of Vojvodina and Mr. Gasic as the secretary of the Vojvodina Assembly cannot react, since here are only the functions of the amendment promoters, but you would have to react. There are 120 people who have been elected in the Vojvodina Assembly by voting for them. Of these, 60 people were chosen by name and last name and corresponded to the citizens who chose them. The government of Vojvodina has the support of some kind in the assembly, and I believe that many are wrong not to participate in the majority, which they do not participate in the work of the Assembly, but let them not refer to the Vojvodina Assembly as a group of gamblers and junkies and robbers who abuse the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they do not use anyone's resources, let alone the funds of the citizens of Serbia. I ask you to respond to these outbursts, both the MPs and the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5730	Miss Jerkov, you've come forward by amendment, and the essence is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure and Replica. Please and I have tolerated you. Mr. Djelic, we won't go any further on this. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, Mr. Mikovic, reporting to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5731	No, I answered the amendment I made before you moved on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5732	Please, when it comes to the submission of amendments by a group of MPs, then one representative explains the amendment, and that, as far as I know, was Janko Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5733	Now, please explain to me how can you not allow me to explain within the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5734	It's simple, which explains one of the representatives in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5735	That's not true. Come on, ask the deputy secretary, secretary general, can I speak? But if you don't give it to me, fine, but then let's know it's rape again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5736	Please, as far as I understand the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to a group of MPs who submit the amendment, an appropriate one, an explanation. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. If I'm wrong, I accept. Here, let the professional service explain it, but if you want from the group, then fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5737	If that's your mercy to give me, I give up my rights. If that's real business, I want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5738	Here you go, I'm not giving anybody a handout. I'm not here to share charity with anyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5739	So I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure? It means that we realize, however, that we know the Rules of Procedure properly. I'm asking you now to give me my time back to zero, because I just got my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5740	Here's what we're gonna do, first we're gonna cancel out, and you sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5741	I thank you for your kindness. The proposed amendment we proposed to be in Article 6. The bill is deleted – dedicated, non-purpose transfers to local self-government units in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government. The amendment only goes towards harmonising with the Constitution. I've pointed out that until now, but I think I have to do this once again, the operations of the local self-government units are financed from the original incomes of the local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I can only from the AP budget when the AP has entrusted the units of local self-government to carry out operations under its jurisdiction, not from the authority of the Republic of Serbia, from its jurisdiction. In that sense, the bill of law is a alignment with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5742	Thank you. We are moving on to Article 6 of the amendment together are submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5743	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been talking for the second or third day about the funds transferred to Vojvodina and this amendment, as well as Mr Lapčević's amendment, are in the position to establish a control of the spending of the competence of autonomous provinces carried out by the competent state authorities. What our interest has proved so far. The interest of the Republic of Serbia, given that the funds that go to the Vojvodina go through Serbia's budget, is all budgetary resources. The interest is to establish a way to control the spending of these funds, because clearly the DRI is not enough to control it because it is a little slow, three times and it needs more time, and we need control that will be as effective as for all other expenditures from the budget. The Vojvodina Development Bank case, with the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund where it is said that there is control and that the fund reports and that the Vojvodina Assembly can see how the funds are spent. He can't, because the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund only filed a report from 2006 to 2009. He did not report in the province's assembly for three years, so neither the citizens nor MPs had the opportunity to gain insight into the fund's operations. The report on the fund was discussed ten days ago and the report on 1,600 pages, a small deadline was left to determine that all funds were spent. That is why it is also necessary for this amendment, which the government has unfortunately not accepted, to establish a control over the spending of funds that go through the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the province of Vojvodina. So that it would not happen that three municipalities in Vojvodina fall into one of the most underdeveloped, five least developed municipalities in Serbia, and then on the other hand we have cities in Vojvodina and municipalities that don't know what to do with the money and who don't know what to do with investments from the circuit fund. This is the face and face of the province of Vojvodina, or something that was once called "the locomotim of Serbia's development". That locomotive has been stopped by just those who have been running the Vojvodina for 12 years, uninterrupted. They're the ones who drove that locomotive on a blind track. That locomotive's not going anywhere anymore. As is the case with the Vojvodine Development Bank, where the assistance of the Republic government is required to preserve deposits and citizens and municipalities in Vojvodina from the collapse, from what is bankruptcy and from the collection of bankruptcy. So it will be with all other things precisely because of the irresponsible behaviour of the government in Vojvodina. We therefore believe that it is necessary for this amendment to be adopted and that at least one part of those funds be finally controlled, in order for it to end those who are most needed, and these are not certainly investments invented by the province's government, but rather a bunch of those juices, streets, villages that have no sewers, no lighting, no path, no attributes that would preserve people and residents in these villages, to keep them from being empty. That is why we believe that the Government should reconsider and see if, in addition to this amendment, Mr Lapčević can adopt this one and establish some control over the spending of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5744	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5745	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this amendment is also consistent with what we've been talking to in the last half hour. What, the honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the Vojvodina, have we just heard? We have heard that those institutions that provide dedicated and legal spending of state money everywhere in Serbia are sufficient and not enough for the Vojvodina. This is bordered by discrimination, not to use any other words, all the citizens of Vojvodina and those they chose in fair, open, democratic elections. I would just like to, since apparently colleagues from the DSS didn't get the right idea, that the amendment of counterpart Lapčević has led us into an unsustainable situation. I'll set an example for the Colubary. While the personnel appointed by the DSS led the "Colubara" there is a reasonable doubt that there have been embezzlements every year, which went up to 50m euros annually. In fact, here, in this house there's been an elected guarantee that the EPS can buy the necessary equipment. That is why all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in charge. That money will be paid back by the EPS, if it cannot, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. all citizens of the Republic of Serbia because a political leadership in one state institution "Colubari" committed a crime. I'm asking if that's why the people of Lazarets and other municipalities where that Colubara are supposed to get reduced funds? Yes or no, because that's the meaning of what we just heard about Vojvodina. Or should it, because it was happening under DSS personnel's command, so much should the transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget be reduced to that party. This is a question I ask, because it also shows why the budget is something that brings certainty to the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, why constitutional and legal rights must be respected, and certain things that happen must be resolved in the right place, through the institutions of the system and through mechanisms that must treat these extraordinary events, and not in a way that because someone does not like the political option that is in power today in Vojvodina, perhaps one day neither the enlighteners nor many other people who have needs in Vojvodina are punished. We now hear that they are being prepared for an additional court, because they are probably less honest than the rest of the Republic of Serbia. It is anti-Volume, and I think these amendments very clearly show who respects the autonomy of the Vojvodina and who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5746	Thank you. (Dejan Mihajlov, from town: Replica. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5747	I've got a line on this -- anti-Vojodian. The worst mood towards Vojvodina has shown you, Mr. Djelic and your government, since you have not respected the Constitution. That's one thing. The second thing, behaviour at Vojvodina Development Bank has endangered the functioning of not only the province of Vojvodina and its budget and the funds it has, but Serbia's entire budget could be compromised. This is what threatens the functioning of the Vojvodina and your authority and your irresponsible authority. The disproportionate development of the Duke has put you at risk, not us, so don't honor us for what you do. Instead of giving us an explanation here, Mr. Djelic, why 75% of the plasma is... (President: Mr. Michael, don't speak directly to the People's Messenger, please. ( ) Why did the province government not explain why 75% of the population of Vojvodina Development Bank was not charged? I was waiting for the answer to that. We have been insisting on this ever since the debate over the Bank Recovery Law. We didn't hear that. Where did the money from the Regional Capital Investment Fund end? These are the answers that Mr Djelic owes us and that the province government owes us, not to run away from all the answers in any other explanation. We will be responsible for everything that we think is necessary and for everything that we think is necessary and for everything that the competent state authorities consider necessary, but in this case, gentlemen from the provincial government need to give answers to this and explain to the citizens of Vojvodina where these funds are, as they end, who they have, not that we have a three-year report from the Regional Fund for Capital Investments. That's what the subject is, and it has to be the subject of all the budget spending, not behind the political farce that's being talked about here... (President: Time. Just one more sentence. And to hide traces of tampering in Vojvodina Development Bank and the Regional Capital Investment and Mutation Fund in that fund, they're just hiding political stories that someone has something against Vojvodina. No one here has anything against Vojvodina. We, as a party, have always given all 7% to the province of Vojvodina, but we do not allow behind the story that someone who has something against Vojvodina's autonomy, that wants to end it, should hide the thief. We're not gonna let that happen, and it's gonna be explored for the rest of the day. I hope this government that isn't DS is going to investigate that. (Jovan Palalic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5748	The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5749	Mr. Djelic, who should then cover this mess and the debts that remained behind your authority, the millions, left to your minister, who was appointed by the DS ministers, the crime they talk about every day? Which institutions should they cover? It's a very thin argument for you. The state is in an abnormal position for your time. Every day information is transmitted and affairs surfaced and proven in courts. You are now telling us how one situation will be covered in which we tell the DSS that the authorities of the state are investigating everything, but we insist that these millions, which have remained and damaged Serbian citizens behind the previous government, should also be investigated, and then see which institution will cover these problems. You left a lot of trouble behind after your government. You're in charge of the state, all ministers. A large number of your ministers are now under different investigations. You now honor the DSS for insisting order? Your reaction to our amendment is why order is being introduced and why rules are being introduced. That's what we insisted on, and we're looking for, and you prove and explain how you're going to and how and how the state is going to deal with this mess now that you left behind. Which institution should guarantee it?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5750	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5751	Thank you. I'd like to say that things are very clear. If there were any irregularities, this should be investigated. But is what one political option in the Colubari did supposed to be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Today we heard that, behold, the Dukes. We heard that as an argument. Imagine 12 years of choosing the same power? They need help to see things better, and that's why we're going to give them extra control, because they vote badly. Well, it's not enough for them, DRI, but we're going to invent additional mechanisms, just because they've been voting badly for 12 years. It is a clear demeaning of all the citizens of Vojvodina and not only those who voted for the political option I represent, but also for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5752	Thank you. The word is Mr. Palalic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5753	You know what, your party president apologized for your government's poor work or your ministers. He said it was bad and that the ministers who were in that government had no need to sit here in the National Assembly anymore. Therefore, the assessment of your previous government's work was given by your party president. That is very specific how you worked and what you left for the citizens of Serbia. As far as the institutions are concerned, we absolutely agree that everything needs to be investigated. Of course, and at the Colubary. We don't have any problem with that, but let's see what damage Serbia left in 2012, after your government, and what you found in 2008, when we left power. It's a subject for citizens. Every crime should be punished and we don't have any problem with that. But when the citizens lived better, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica or during your government and government where you were, Mr. Djelic? That's the topic we need to talk about and what problem we're struggling with today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5754	Thank you. Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5755	I'm advertising Article 107(2). – at the meeting of the National Assembly it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament and to use offensive expressions, etc., it is at the previous presentation of Mr Palalić. Speaking of the DS and the party president's apology, I will remind you that the European Commission has estimated that 90% of the privatisations were controversial during the rule of Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5756	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djelic, right on the line. I'd close this circle with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5757	I'd just say, since our party was directly mentioned, that we never ran away from responsibility and that it's not true that Dragan Gilas said we were doing a bad job, but he said that we didn't do everything we could and that for some crisis it was too easy an excuse. That's why we're in the DS, one of them, when the goal we set for ourselves, and for example, the goal is to get candidate status, and when it wasn't reached, on December 9, 2011, I resigned as Deputy Prime Minister. A number of my colleagues resigned today as MPs. As far as DS is concerned, everything is changing, no one is God's day, our ideology, our goal is to make it better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that if we make a mistake, we admit it, and if we don't do everything we can to do, we bring some consensus about it. I think that's what's different between DS and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5758	The word is Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5759	I think he's obviously a member of 106. The Rules of Procedure - MPs can only speak about what is currently on the agenda. I am very pleased to hear about the successes of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, about the differences between DS and other parties, however, it is now an amendment on the agenda given by DSS MPs in which the doubts are expressed, in the way of business, that is, the way the government of the AP Vojvodina and the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, spending the funds of the people of Vojvodina, which, I am convinced, is driven by the various political options, but this should be the subject of our debate, not what the Government has left behind. In the AP Vojvodina, I would say, fortunately, they are in the power of another party than in the rest of the Republic of Serbia and I don't think the effects of different governments are the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5760	I completely agree with you, Miss Jerkov. So we return to the agenda and continue on the amendment to Article 6 of the Law. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5761	The motifs of the amendment are fully justified and unquestionable precisely in the sense in which Mr Mihajlov argued in the opening statement. For the URS, the issue of even development is, in fact, the fundamental issue of economic efficiency and political justice in the country. All statistics suggest that the huge problem is the monocentre structure of life organisation in Serbia, or as we call it simplistically - Belgrade. So in 2000, every fourth employee in Serbia worked in Belgrade. Today, every third. More than half of Serbia's total earnings are spent in Belgrade and not to lower all the statistics that the URS has and which they use in decryping the conditions they criticise. However, with personal discomfort, we must tell you that it is not the roughest centralisation in Serbia, the Belgradeisation of Serbia. All these statistics are more unfavourable when we talk about the position of Novi Sad in Vojvodina and the newly-soldication of Vojvodina is unfortunately more pronounced than Serbia's Belgradeisation. The measures proposed by this amendment, unfortunately, cannot be said to be an adequate response to the perceived problem and because it does not accept the amendment, I believe that the Government rightly confirms that it has a deep sense of respect for the constitutional category of Vojvodina autonomy and that it does not want to allow any kind of discrimination that this proposed enhanced supervision could entail.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5762	The URS parliamentary group is running out of time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support this amendment and ask the promoter to let me know when I vote that I can vote on this amendment. I'll try to explain why. This is said to say about, in Article 6, Article 5, which reads – the control of the legality of the spending of funds to finance the jurisdiction of Autonomous provinces, is in the crowd, which is commended by the competent state authorities. The government's explanation states that this is not necessary because there is a budget inspection and a DRI. What's the matter? Usually this budget inspection or auditors go through the papers. Papers are given to tune, expenses are given on paper to write whatever you want. The paper puts up with everything. I ask, which auditor or which budget inspection will come to Vienna to determine whether 57m dinars, over 550,000 euros were spent on three sewer pipes at the time, were between May 10th and 20th, between two rounds of elections. What budget inspection will come to control this? None. Also, I ask, Backi Gracac, the sewerage water, the purifier and the purifier house, that's only 300,000 euros built a three-by-three house and I'm asking, which audit and budget inspection will determine this if not all state authorities are competent as it says in this amendment? Here is the authority of the criminal police administration, the SBPOK or what all these organizations are called, and these are the competent state authorities spoken of in this amendment. Unlike the predecessors, I don't see anything anti-Vojvodian here, and I think that we Dukes have inherited one settled province, one part of Serbia, and it's in our interest to keep it settled, to control whoever it wants, to be an example of the rest of Serbia and to show that there's nothing to hide in the province. I still think someone here is seeing the AP Vojvodina as a safe house for the rest of the regime and the man who was the main opponent of this control here, and I found myself an expert when he went to the party, becoming the Duke of Meridian Bank. Just because he's a duke doesn't mean he's in charge of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5764	Article 7 of the 1st Amendment with correction was filed by MP Ranka Savic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, submitted an amendment to Article 7 and to Section 3. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Enis Imamovic and Bajro Gegic to Article 7 of the amendments. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5765	Dear Prime Ministers, let me just say briefly that the objective of our amendment was precisely to show concern for those living in the worst conditions in our country. The amendment called on the government to allow normal working conditions for those who want to deal with the burning problems of undeveloped and devastated areas throughout our country. So the daily life of these areas is best described by the exact name of the category in which they are located, and these are devastated areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5766	On Article 7th of the amendment, the People's MP, Dr Slobodan Samardzic, submitted. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Jaksic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5767	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Since the minister has shown the will to accept those amendments that are reasonable, I believe this is also one of the amendments that should be accepted. Namely, my colleague Marko Jaksic and the DSS parliamentary group are proposing that from Chapter 3, 8, it is in fact the Office for European Affairs, that the funds intended for services under contract, which is 55 million 190 000 dinars, be transferred to the KIM Office, to that economic classification where transfers to other levels of government are located. If the budget is a picture and a message to all of us, what is the government's policy for next year, then we can say that the amendments that MPs are actually submitting and one message to the MPs about the government having to observe and do things. You replied to me, or to my colleagues, that this amendment is not accepted because it would lead to the abolition of one function, when it comes to the KIM Office, and these are the means for translation into Serbian language from various European legislation harmonisation laws, etc., for simultaneous translation. This message, with this amendment that we are sending, is that you are, in fact, doing a vain job, that you are persistently continuing to lead Serbia through European integration even though the EU has had very strange arches and behaviours towards Serbia so far. What concerns us about this new government is that this government has not changed, at least what we see, the policy of the previous government when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We are also concerned that the most important thing in the Security Council the other day was the recommendation to the Serbian government that it should continue. Good neighbourly policy and that Serbia must work to "indentise institutions" the RS, which operate on KIM. This concerns us very much because it comes from the largest countries in the world, the biggest forces, and they are particularly loud there countries that are, let me say, the main ones in the EU. So, this concerns us very much, and we fear that not enough funds for the KIM Office after the ministry has been abolished, we fear that this slowly leads to the abolition of RS institutions operating in Kosovo. We are also concerned that these days on land between Jarinj and Mines, customs checkpoints are rising. This government and ministers are trying to explain that it's nothing, it's some kind of checkpoint, it's a tax checkpoint. However, Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija are very concerned, and we are also very concerned, because it is integrated border management, and that is a classic border crossing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5768	Thank you. The DSS Group has wasted its time. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, the 3 amendments were submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, sections 3, 13, 14, 16, 19, 23, 24, 25, 30, 31, 39, 50 and 52, MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Sinisa Lazic submitted together. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5769	I sincerely hope that this amendment will be accepted, because obviously the draft budget law in this section that we have attacked, practically by amendment, is absolutely illogical. It is obvious that the expenditure item in the budget is not realistically planned, even at 37. The 37 chapters provide for amounts in economic classification 416 – rewards for employees and other special expenditures, and in control of the amount of a thousand. What does that mean? This means that in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the remuneration of employees and other special expenditures for the whole of 2013 amounts to thousands of dinars, or for the government's airline service, also for a whole year of thousands of dinars, or for the Office for Regulatory Reform and Analysis of the effects of the rules on employees and other special expenditures of thousands of dinars. So in 37 places thousands of dinars are projected, two thousand dinars are projected in one place. True, we didn't attack that with an amendment, come on, maybe two thousand is some more serious number, so I understand, but these thousands of dinars are really obviously proposed to just open a budget item. At the same time, the provisions of Article 15 are forgotten. The 2013 draft law on the budget of the RS, which stipulates that the budget 2013 will not account for the remuneration of employees, as well as the account of the payment of Christmas, annual and other types of prizes and bonuses, provided for by specific collective agreements for direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the local authorities and social insurance obligation organisations. So on one side of the 15th budget, we say -- there's no such thing, and yet a budget item with thousands of dinars opens on the small door. I have to point out that New Year's, that is, the world-class awards only have the right to employees in primary and secondary schools, institutions of student and student standards and higher education institutions, and employees who participate in providing health care, to the amount of four thousand dinars. Since the amount of thousands of dinars to 37 seats in the budget is not enough to pay jubilee and some other prizes, but only to pass by using the legal possibility to reroute the budget, means the budget's resources up to 5% of the appropriations under the provisions of Article 61. The budget system law in the course of the year, and the height of this appraisal can be adjusted to the required height. So, at the small door, there's an open possibility that someone can be corrected, that someone can't be corrected. We have suggested that this amendment be adopted, that the funding of 37,000 dinars in total, as proposed, be directed to the position of the current reserve, so if someone really needs to pay the jubilee prize, they will be able to make a request to the Government for funds, with an explanation why they are not in real terms planned in the budget. I think this is a lot fairer than opening a budget item, and then over the year, something to correct. This confirms that what we have so far indicated, that there is a right of the government and the ministries, to practically decide on 100.8 billion dinars, practically they have the right to propose a government minister, to decide to distribute it. My amendment has not been adopted, that at the end of the calendar year all internal loans are reduced to zero, but are allowed to pass certain internal loans over the next calendar year. Finally, here you can see that the spending side is obviously unrealistically planned, but to go towards opening budget positions so that over the years some thing can be corrected. In that sense, I find that part wrong. If we're planning something, then we need to plan it realistically.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5770	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5771	You're wrong, it's not a small door, but it's a big door that we announce that we're going to pay the new year's rewards to teachers in education, health workers, employees in social protection institutions, in cultural institutions. That's what we've given in Articles 15 and 15 of the Government's amendments. It's not a small door, it's a big door. So you have a clear member of the law that determines that. Also, you didn't read the article correctly that says that jubilee accidents are paid off. We left the possibility for both New Year's awards and Jubilee Awards to be paid, completely transparent in Article 15. Budget law. These small technical amounts that you mention in 37 places, they are used in each budget so far when a certain state authority, for example, the airline you mentioned, wants to have an item and does not know exactly how much it will be, and it can be transferred within 5% of the appraisal, so that it can be opened just so that it can be transferred within the legal 5% from one item to another. Given that you are a high-experienced MP here, you could literally see it in all the budgets that were coming to the Assembly. This is nothing new, this is a technical matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5772	Mr. Mikovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5773	If you have followed me well, Mr. Minister, I said that only primary and secondary school employees, student and student standards and higher education institutions and employees who participate in providing health care at 4,000. It's undeniable. I said they have rights and that's clear. Second, in terms of jubilee, those who only acquired the right in 2013. But it's obvious that the jubilee prizes can't be paid with 1,000 dinars. So, according to all these heads, there's no possibility of paying off 1,000 dinars. Obviously that part wasn't planned properly. In that sense, I said, and that is the fact that money will obviously be spent differently than in the draft law in the budget. You are now confirming that my claim, that money will be spent differently, obviously, up to 5% of the amount. Why was it necessary to have some figure that we are now aware that it will not be so planned in an unreal amount? Why didn't you plan in real terms? What did those who proposed not give an overview of what that figure would be, and not during the year, again, depending on the need to correct that figure? In that sense, we have made an observation and we suggest that if it is to be corrected, which the 37,000 does not go into the current budget reserve, so whether those 37 or something, but again from the item of the current budget reserve, you do not pay where it is due to be paid, again, in accordance with Article 15. Budget law?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5774	At Section 3, 6, 19, 20, 23, 24, 27 and 29, the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stoišic and Karolj Čizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the legal system. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5775	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We don't want to talk about the AP Vojvodina, although part of the amendment is dedicated to it, I suppose that's why it's been rejected, but if there's a chance that the second part of the amendment will be accepted, please let the Ministry find a way. We can make amends or some committee submits a similar amendment or government as a proposal, it is about textbooks for students, primary school students who are educated in a language that is not Serbian, in their native language. Ms. Olena Papuga, who sits behind me, has been trying to communicate with the Ministry of Education for several months to get an answer to the question – how will these low-cost textbooks be done, not only for students who are educated in the languages of national minorities, but also for children with development disorders, some professional schools, etc., the Ministry of Education cannot give her an answer to the question - where exactly in the budget are the funds provided for these textbooks? If you have an answer, if it's secured somewhere, it'll be good news, because it's not an important amendment, it's important that these textbooks be provided. The Minister of Education spoke yesterday about the textbooks being provided in March. I think it's clear to everyone that March is too late to provide textbooks for any school year, given that the school year ends in June, and that there will be no means for all textbooks, but for five textbooks. Primary school students who are educated in the languages of national minorities have the right to school, as well as any other children in the Republic of Serbia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, basic education is something that must be made available to everyone under equal conditions in their native language. We've proposed an amendment to find the means to do so. If this is not a good way to go, we accept, just let some budget funds be found for this purpose, since in the whole group of children in the Republic of Serbia the right to basic education in the mother tongue is denied. We believe that such a thing must be found in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5776	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5777	We agree that this need is important. You yourself said that under this amendment it cannot be accepted, but if there are really such demands, either from the ministry or from the current budget reserve, we will try to ensure it because it is a really important need.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5778	On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 24 of the amendment, MP Ruzica Igic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Ruzica Igic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5779	This previous presentation of Miss Jerkov has not given me a fantastic creamworth for this exhibit that I'm about to have. In fact, they can't take away the first impression that only LSV and DS seem to be in favour here, and that they're accusing us here of absolutely having nothing to do with it. No one can love, nor can any MPs from southeastern Serbia, more Vojvodina and Buck than I, which I am 600 years ago, rooted me. So I think this was an incorrect calling, but I'm going back to my amendment. Slagworth gave me Miss Jerkov with my amendment, which the government did not accept. Namely, what's this about? When I looked at the total funds allocated to the co-ordination body for Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, I asked the minister to, if he can, wash this out because it's very important, then these analyses show that there are services under the 54 million contract. Among other things, when I looked at a little bit of what that 54 million is given for, I saw 31 million being given for book translation, for the outcast departments of two universities founded in Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac. As for book translation, 31 mil, I'm a professor at university and I can understand that it takes some books to be translated, but how many books can be translated when it's recalculated? For 31 million, if we take that 1,000 dinars is a one-page translation, which is between five and ten euros, then we have a situation where we can translate 300,000 pages. 300,000 pages, and the average thickness of the book is 300 pages, that's 1,000 books. Look, for 100 students who are enrolled, I don't even know if it's totally legal and if it's accredited to that college, is it possible that 1,000 books are translated for the needs of this university? In addition, it's given $9.5 million to print these books. Then why not request that the Coordination Body, which was established for co-operation between the Vojvodina and the Republic, be translated into other national minorities in Vojvodina. I fully see one reasonable request with this which you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5780	National MP Petar Petkovic submitted to article 7 of the 3rd and 31st amendments. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5781	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to the DSS parliamentary group requesting that 40 million dinars be directed towards the Diaspora and Serbs Office in the region, within the economic classification of 481 - grant to NGOs, which refers to the organisation of the Serb community. In particular, in my explanation, I have stated that it is very important for this money to be directed towards Serbs in the region, where the situation is extremely catastrophic, both materially and politically. In response to the government's failure to accept this amendment, it is said that this would endanger the distribution of a digital TV signal, as I demand money from the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. Be careful, in Serbia where it is literally waiting in line to buy stale bread, it is such a situation today in Serbia, the people have no money for expensive televisions, LCDs and plasmas that support this digital signal and therefore, it is absolutely absurd to give one such answer why this extremely important amendment is not accepted. About 2.2 million people live in the region, i.e. Serbs in the region, and it is very important that the state of Serbia takes care of its people, because basic human rights are being violated there in Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia. What will happen to the Serbs after the Hag acquittal, when they released Gotovina and Markac? What good can the Serbs living in Croatia expect, given that so far neither their housing, property and all other rights have been resolved? They are in every way jeopardizing elemental rights, infrastructure issues, return, etc. We believe this money must improve the state of Serbs in the region. Here is one information – for this year, the school, the state of Serbia has defined only 40 scholarships for Serbs in the region. We have two and a half million people, and only 40 scholarships. What's going on? It happens that our parents go and study at the University of Zagreb, Temisvara, etc., not in their home country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5782	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5783	Regarding this amendment, I must say that I agree that this issue needs to be regulated in one quality way, that the issue of the position of Serbs in the region is a national issue and that there should be no party differences around this situation. I believe that the funds allocated to Serbs in the region are extremely low and could be expected from this government to have more understanding on the subject, especially because there have been a lot of promises in principle to Serbs in the region, Serbs in Slovenia and Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Hungary and other countries that fall under the Diaspora Act and Serbs in the region in this category of our country will be provided with greater and more significant financial resources and will be targeted for the needs of the preservation of identity, learning of languages, letters and other rights which are, in some way, denied and threatened. In this sense, I really suggest that the government, together with the Diaspora and Serbs Office in the region, find the possibility that, above all, through the Diaspora Fund and Serbs in the region, it will find more significant resources. I believe that you will have the support of all parliamentary groups and that this issue should indeed be seen as one initiative, and if you do not meet to accept this amendment, this will be taken into consideration in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5784	On Article 7th, the 16th Amendment was submitted by National MP Bojana Bozanic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5785	As regards this amendment to Article 7, we have proposed to reduce the amount of 20 million in the grant work to international organisations and to increase the grant to NGOs that involve, among other things, the development of youth entrepreneurship. I think it's very important that as much as possible to stimulate young people to deal with entrepreneurship. If you've been listening lately, there have been several polls that say that young people tend to commit, if they start their business, for services. So, not for production. I think that we need to define somewhere clearly and specify that we are giving certain incentives and great incentives to launch a production-related company, because that is the only way in which, by involving young people in the manufacturing economy, we can employ them. There's no business in public enterprises. It's pretty hard. This is how we can help them, and on the other hand we can improve the economy, because all these days, when we adopt the draft budget law, we hear about the development of the economy and the improvement of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. I think we need to make sure that we invest, what I said today, in those branches of the economy that will come back to us, that will start production and where the funds will come from, and that they will come back and generate new jobs. I believe that the youth enterprise and, above all, an incentive in the field of production for young people up to 30 years is extremely important, as is investment in those industries that will repay these funds to get out of these debts that they are now in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5786	Thank you. Members of the 7th Division of the 16th Amendments were brought together by MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 7, the 16 amendments were submitted by the MP Dr Nenad Popovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 7th division of 16, 18, 23, 27, 32, 41 and 52 amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Teodora Vlahović, Dr Janko Vesenović and Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5787	In this part of the amendment, we submitted for the same reasons as our colleagues did in the second part, where it was noted that positions with thousands of dinars were opened. In addition to those positions of 37, listed by counterpart Mikovic, 12 other positions have been set aside here. Probably to find more positions. With such a small amount, nothing can be done. What's interesting here, in this part, are positions with 1,000 dinars defined in the area where machines and equipment are, where the land is, where buildings, buildings, etc. What we've suggested is that it's about to focus on the budget reserve, given that from those reserves these funds when one unit in one place is something can be done. With such empty positions, there's certainly nothing to be done. We also received a practical answer from the minister that, in this case, the positions have been opened to take advantage of the possibility set out in Article 61. The law on the budgetary system, i.e. that the funds are subsequently relocated from other positions within the same heading. We believe that the position should or should not have been planned better or left in such a way as to be able to further reroute the funds, because otherwise the Government has the possibility that with more than 12% of the budget, according to specific programmes, it has its own resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5788	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5789	The President-in-Office, given that we have received information that this will be done by the end of Article 7, which is about 24 amendments, as we have managed to count, is now 22.00 hours, and since we MPs from the opposition in the main 10.00 hours of the morning are working on these amendments and on the budget, and these 24 amendments will take at least an hour or two, if we take into account discussions, replicas and everything else, MPs of the ruling coalition are gone, we need again at 10.00 in the morning to continue and simply are not normal working conditions. You're taking care of the session... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure did I hurt? ) Article 27. - running the session. Secondly, there's no television transmission, and this debate we're having right now is going to go on in the small hours, at two, three, four in the morning, and it's going to continue after the whole program is over. Simply, secure working conditions or continue tomorrow afternoon at 10.00 or 11.00 hours, so that it will be all right and that the public may be aware of what we are doing in this congregation. This really doesn't lead anywhere anymore, so that in the small hours the citizens can watch what's going on in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5790	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5791	It's just an addition to what Mr. Michael suggested, and I'm going to ask you one question. So, if we stop the debate or continue, are we going to do another united debate tomorrow? What matters to us is that we need to prepare ourselves for this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-29-0.u5792	I'll give you that information right away. So tomorrow we will continue to discuss the 2013 draft budget law in particular, and when we are done, we will move on to the next item of the agenda, or after the debate on the set of laws that you received in the agenda. Since I want to maintain order and keep everyone focused, I suggest we interrupt the session. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Nebojsa Stefanovic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Zoran Radovanovic, Slobodan Jeremic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular on the 2nd item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the proposer: Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister of Health, invited the sittings to attend and – Istvan Pastor, President of the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, Zoran Radoman, member of the Regional Government and Regional Secretary of Finance, Milorad Gašić, Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance of Finance of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Mirić, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the National Parliament, Minister of the National Parliament, Minister of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Parliament, Minister of the National Parliament, Minister of the National Parliament, Minister of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, Minister of the National Assembly of Finance of Finance, I, I. We continue the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 with decisions on the financial plans of the organisation of compulsory social security. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to Sections 16, 19 and 20 of the amendments. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. The Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of Judita Popovic reported. Here you go.
