ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6116	I'm reporting under Article 97. I'd like to extend the time of the debate. There's a few reasons for that. We propose a double debate time for parliamentary groups. The reasons are the same as in the previous assembly of parliament. So for us, such a way of discussing such important laws is totally unacceptable. These laws, mostly, have not passed any public debate. The Assembly was delivered directly ahead of the budget debate, e.g. These eight laws would mean that our parliamentary group has two minutes under one law to discuss. Given the importance of these laws and the far-reaching consequences of their adoption, since no public debate has existed in these laws any longer, we insist that at least the assembly in the tide gets more time to discuss these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6117	On the basis of Article 97(3), MPs have the right to propose more time than foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, so I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Ivan Andric to extend, or double the time needed for the parliamentary groups. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 105 MPs, of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since the total time of debate of the parliamentary groups is five hours, the exact time per parliamentary group has been given to you in detail in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for a Regulation on time-limits and the reconciliation of monetary obligations in commercial transactions, the Proposal for a Regulation on the Conditions of Employment of interest and the Peace of Tax Debt, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Public Entrepreneurship, the Proposal for a Law on Exchanges and Supplements to the Law on Exchanges, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on Public Preserves, the Proposal for a Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Exchanges and Supplements to the Law on the Civil Service, the Proposal for a Law on Public Prosecution, the Proposal for Amendments and on Freedom of Freedoms on Freedoms of Freedom of Freedoms, on Freedom of Freedom of Freedom of Freedoms, on Freedom of Freedom of Freedom of Freedom of Freedoms of Freedoms, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Freedoms of Law of Law, on Public, on the Law for the Law of Law for the Law of Law, on Public, on Public, on the Law for the Law for the Law, on the Law of Law of Law, on the Laws and on Public, on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Laws and on Freedoms and on Trade of Laws and on Freedom of Freedom of Freedoms and on Freedom of Freedom of Freedom of Freedoms, on Freedom of Freedom of Freedoms, on Freedoms, on Freedoms, on Freedoms, on the Laws of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law, on the Law of Law, on Law of Law, on the Does the Proposer's representative, Mr Dinkic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6118	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank the MPs for the first time in six years that we adopted the budget on time. That way, given that we halved the budget deficit, we stabilized public finances. However, these laws that we are talking about today should help to stabilise public finances, through a law that will improve liquidity in the economy, spill over and into the economy, because the situation is very difficult in the economy. In three consecutive quarters this year, GDP fell and the first month when industrial production grew was October, but it was only one month compared to a very long series of the first nine months that were very bad. We are fully aware in the government that self-sustaining public finances, if it is not transferred to an increase in the liquidity of the economy, is not enough. So these laws we're going to talk about today, the first two laws I'm going to talk about, are actually laws that, in a direct or indirect way, need to improve the liquidity of the economy. The first law I'm going to talk about today is the proposal for a bill on conditional interest write-off and tax-relieving debt. It's the law, we can call it probationary, as a law on probationary tax amnesty. Why are we making a proposal for this law? Because debt on the basis of unpaid taxes is huge, which has one huge part of the debt for tight interest, which is not chargeable, and because we think we should give everyone a chance, that if they regularly pay current tax obligations, they can be paid heavy interest, and that they also get a chance to pay off their main tax debt. The total tax debts on October 31st of this year, a month ago, amounted to as much as 967.8 billion dinars. The basic debt of 340.5 billion dinars, while the tight interest amounted to 62.7.2 billion. However, this refers to all the states that exist in the tax administration in their books. If we look at only active enterprises, that debt is somewhat smaller, but the figures are still fragrant. So the total debt of active legal entities, active companies, means those who work, is 483 billion dinars, of which the main debt is 180 billion, and the tight interest rate is 303 billion dinars. Even in the category of the smallest companies, entrepreneurs, which are around 300,000 in Serbia, debt is very high. Entrepreneurs owe about 56 billion dinars in total, of which for interest rates 26 billion, and their total tax debt is 29 billion. What do we suggest? We are now proposing that if all businesses, whether they are active companies, and even if it is enterprises that are currently blocked because of tax obligations, we give everyone a chance that if they go on a regular basis to pay current taxes, to permanently write them off a tightened interest and to allow them to postpone the main tax debt. The condition that any company, whether it is an entrepreneur or a large company, would be given the opportunity for this conditional tax amnesty, is to make regular payments for the month November and December of this year. These obligations under our proposal, businesses are required to pay by 31 January of the following year at the latest, so within the next 60 days. If the current obligation for November and December is paid, the company has qualified to enter this law, i.e. to apply this law, and then, if from the new year it starts to continue to pay its current commitments regularly, after two years, entrepreneurs, and after a year of large enterprises, they get a condition for full write-off of tight interest due to the situation on October 31st of this year. Also, you can write off tight interest on all those who suddenly pay off the principal debt. If someone immediately pays off the principal debt, they automatically write off a fine interest, whether they do so now or in the next two years in this period when this law works. Health insurance contributions are also written off. Why? Because those who did not pay these contributions for health insurance, they were not certified books and therefore did not use those services. We felt it was better to put the system in order and then give it as an advantage for the one who regularly pays the current obligation, for a period of another year or two days, depending on whether the entrepreneur or the large company is, and the tight interest is written off and all contributions on 31 October 2012 based on contributions to health insurance. What are all taxes written off? They are also written down Republically, and there is a possibility of write-offs and local taxes. Of the Republics, it is a tax on the income of citizens, a tax on the profits of legal persons, a tax on the transfer of absolute rights, a tax on inheritance and a gift, a tax on registered weapons, a tax on life insurance premiums, a contribution to compulsory PIO, health insurance, insurance for unemployment insurance, value added tax, excise taxes, sales taxes, as they draw some obligations even from the period when there was a sales tax, a tax on the fund and a tax on financial transactions. These last three do not exist now in the legal system, but there are obligations from the period when these revenues were made, based on the main debt and interest. Also, local congregations, or congregations of cities and municipalities, local self - administrations can make a decision to write down local taxes, in the same way the law provides for republican ones. This means that this law applies not only to legal persons, but also to citizens. If anyone owes a tax on property, this law will apply to him. What other rules provides for this law? As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, they need from New Year's, if they regularly reconciled their commitments for November and December this year they qualified to be subject to the law. They should pay these current revenues regularly in the next two years of each month, month after month. Then at the end of the first year, they were given half a tight interest rate on October 31st of this year, and at the end of the second year, the second half of the interest was tightened. After that period, within two years, they are given the opportunity to pay off the main debt to 24 equal monthly wars without security instruments, which are otherwise provided for by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Therefore, the regular payment of current liabilities leaves a tight interest, and the main debt can be paid over the next two years, in fact four years is a period relating to entrepreneurs. As for large businesses, they have an obligation to pay interest regularly in the first year, after six months, half of the tight interest from the previous period and after the second half of the year and the second half. Also, for two years, they get a chance to pay off the main tax debt. The main tax debt is not forgiven. It is determined by the state of October 31st this year and revolving the consumer price index. This means that under this law, the one who regularly pays the obligations is written off only tight interest and contributes to compulsory health insurance, until the main debt is forgiven. It is revolving and maintained real value, but in the event of regular settlement of current obligations, it is allowed to pay the main debt to the 24-year war. What happens if someone doesn't take this opportunity, or a proposal from the government and the IRS? If, in the first month of this two year period, obligations are not paid in the current month for the current month, the law shall automatically cease to apply to that legal person and continue to be followed by the Standard Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. So, on the one hand, when this law comes into force, and we have proposed to the government's amendment that it be immediately after the Assembly confirms it, and we expect that it will be such a case, all blockades of blocked companies will be raised on the basis of unmistakable tax debts. All those who have some debts, whether their accounts are blocked or not, will have a chance to pay taxes for November and December this year to enter into the application of this law. If the company has been blocked and paid for the month November and December, it can continue to work with the removed blockade, in the following year and must continue the month for the month to pay the current commitments. If someone doesn't, they'll be back in no time. It also applies to those companies that are not blocked that have to pay in November and December to enter this system. It is important to note that this tax administration law will be applied automatically by official duty. Entrepreneurs and businesses won't have to ask the IRS for anything, no demands to file, but by automation, by official duty, the IRS will apply this. We wanted to avoid any administration. What exactly is the idea of this law? The idea is to speed up the regular payment of current liabilities starting from now on. We give a strong motive with them that if they regularly pay current obligations, they can write off a fine interest and get a prolonging of the payment of the principal debt. We expect a significant increase in the tax revenue charged through the application of this law, but on the other hand, those who do not respect this, more than this, the government has been unable to help. We gave everyone a chance. Whoever uses it will be able to write all of this off from his previous period. Who doesn't, unfortunately, will remain in this regime under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where the system of these tight interest rates will continue to apply. Just because the main moral dilemma was – and what about those enterprises that have so far paid regularly and have no debts? Are we punishing the adoption of this law that allows those who have debts to bring about their write-off on a regular basis? We did have a moral dilemma, but we are at the conclusion that even such businesses that are regularly paid will get this bill, because tax-debted companies today may be debtors and such businesses that have paid regularly. There's a chain of debtorial trust. It is better for such regulars that these companies they owe them, rather than paying the state for the heavy interest, to pay them due on their claims, if they were suppliers to them. This way the liquidity will increase. Otherwise, we think that one good part of these tight interest rates is non-refundable, and in that sense we want to motivate everyone who pays the basic debt to write off a fine interest. This is a law that in an indirect way should improve liquidity in the economy. The second law that is before you is the law on the deadlines for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. For a long time, businessmen have been asking for order in economic payments and for adequate payment security instruments to be established, because unfortunately now it is such a situation that the average payment time in Serbia is 134 days, in the region is about 69 days, and in the EU it is about 40 days. It is clear that such financial indiscipline is lost by those who regularly settle their obligations to the state, who treat their clients neatly as well. This law represents a kind of shock therapy, as we predict that the state, starting on 31 March next year, will have to pay all its obligations within a maximum period of 45 days. Between the private sector, the maximum payment deadline will be up to 60 days. Why is it a shock therapy? Because today the state is late for much more payments. These delays also resulted in health debts, travel business, construction. We, but also Legislative Budget, which has now been adopted by the law on public enterprises, which is also on the agenda today, provide through various mechanisms that the state can control the regularity of payments and provide financial discipline. The big problem of our country, which is why we inherited such a large budget deficit and the country's debt to the private sector, as well as the private sector's debts among ourselves, was in the absence of financial discipline. The basis of this government's work is to establish financial discipline. Bringing was the first step. The next first step is to pass this law, where this discipline will be established. There are also several exceptions when a period of more than 60 days can be foreseen under this law. If any goods are sold for war, then the maximum time limit for such companies is allowed to be up to 90 days. Also, the exception is registered agricultural holdings and agricultural cooperatives, which can contract longer deadlines in cases of re-procurement for the exercise of basic activity, such as seed fruit material, protective products and fertilisers. The longer payment period is also foreseen for payments of the Health Fund to the pharmaceutical industry. Unfortunately, today's payment deadlines are up to 200 days. This law provides for them to be gradually shortened. This is a deal that we reached with the pharmaceutical industry - 150 days next year, 120 days in 2014 and that the payment deadline is 90 days maximum, starting from 1. January 2015 in this industry. We had a public debate under this law. It's not exactly what you said. For several laws, which are most important, there was a serious public debate. In the course of this public debate, and we can see by some amendments, the basic question... First of all, many people probably didn't think we'd ever pass this law, because many companies have been crying for two years to pass this law, and now that we've passed a very sharp law, one part of the company has asked why the state would edit our relations between two companies in the private sector. Unfortunately, because there are great delays in the private sector as well. It is true that the state was in the previous period a basic indifference generator, but there is no guarantee that a small enterprise or company is protected from a large one, which can impose such a contract if we do not prescribe it by law, which is much longer than 60 days, which can be 120 - 200 days. We are witnessing the fact that many companies in some large trade chains are being exposed to great delays in payment, which is why some in the meantime are bankrupt. So we feel that we must limit payments by law for these companies as well. We can consider and discuss at the Assembly Committee on Finance, make an exception only in case the private sector is negotiated by agreement, that the deadline may be longer, but if it is covered by a bank guarantee or an avalanche menu. These are the only two means of security, unfortunately, which are currently serious. All other means of security need to be strengthened. Gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to announce to you that the Ministry of Finance and Business is preparing for spring a special law on payment security, which should be much better defined and regulated by this area, as well as a law on the responsibility of the Director, which should allow a company to go on purpose, or fictitiously into bankruptcy, in order to avoid obligations to trustees, to conduct a criminal procedure, to prove whether the director of that company did so on purpose, in order to avoid paying obligations, for which he gets high prison sentences if it is proved or is a case of bad business, non-intention, when there is no such sanctions, because bankruptcy can be a result of poor business work, poor economic circumstances. If it is determined that there has been a fraud of intent with the director of the company, then he will be punished by prison sentences. It's in Anglo-Saxon law solved that way. I think we should bring that into our legal order. In any case, we are confident that this law will lead to a significant improvement in liquidity in the economy, primarily because the state will start to pay regularly at 45 days to the private sector. We predicted that if he was late in payments, tight interest payments would be charged for each day, that there would be an additional fine of 20,000 dinars, which would be paid. There are also criminal penalties for legal persons, as well as for managers, any state authorities, any private companies, if they are late. What we have also predicted is that responsible persons in the state, since the state must be a generator for the establishment of discipline, be a minister when it comes to the ministry. If a ministry is late in payment, it will be the minister as a responsible person, the president of the municipality, or mayor, if local self-government is delayed, the directors of public enterprises when it comes to public enterprises, if the province's administration is concerned. Therefore, the Heads of State will be prosecuted in the event that their portfolio assumes the obligation and does not pay it within a maximum of 45 days. In other words, you don't have to make a commitment unless you can and has no money to pay. That's how discipline is established. 'This law will be implemented by controlling the implementation of the Treasury. We'll have a "online" database from the local level, from the level of public enterprises and from the level of the entire state, the province and the Republic about taking over some obligations and we'll have the exact record when it gets closer to Day 45. From 30th to 45th, there will be warnings to those authorities who have not paid off their obligation. In the case of the Republic, we have the opportunity to suspend payments to the ministry on other grounds until obligations to the private sector are paid. Also, there is the possibility of suspending transfers to local self-governments if they are late in payments. There are also adequate sanctions for public enterprises. It was settled in the Law on Public Enterprises, which we were talking about. Also, there are sanctions for the province. So the state will be the first to establish this financial discipline and then we expect that, when the state does, the private sector will follow. It's a law to limit payment deadlines. These first two laws, the Law on conditional tax amnesty and the limitation of payment deadlines, should improve that liquidity in the Serbian economy, along with some other measures we intend to apply, such as subsidized liquidity loans. The next system law in front of you is the Law on Public Enterprises. We've been to the point of making a whole new law. We believe that this law is a serious step forward, although improvements in the law are possible. What important paper does this law bring? I want to say that we worked together with experts from the World Bank, because we wanted to install into our law on public enterprises the experiences of other developed countries. The first and basic characteristic is that this law introduces professionalisation of governance in republican public enterprises. A public competition institution is also being introduced to select all directors of public enterprises. The boards of directors shall be abolished. It is significantly reduced by a member of the Supervisory Board, as the abolition of the Governing Board of States is essentially withdrawn from the management of public enterprises and is left to professionals at the republican level. The law provides a public competition and a ban on the director of a republican public enterprise and a province public enterprise being the official of a political party. If it was before the competition, then it has to freeze that status. That solution is the same as in any other developed country. Also, we're cutting down a member, and once the boards of directors are abolished, the boards of directors are formed. However, the number of members of the Supervisory Boards will be up to three in local public enterprises and a maximum of five in the republican public enterprises, including one employee representative, who will be in those supervisory committees. What is also important when the republican public enterprises are concerned, among these five members one will be a representative of the public company's employees, and one will be an independent member. The independent member must meet very strict conditions and cannot even be a member of the political party, when it comes to the supervisory committees of republican public enterprises, so that essentially only three will be delegated by political parties. All over the country, political parties have delegated members to the boards of directors of public enterprises, because they are state-owned enterprises, and the state is represented by parties who get a mandate from citizens in the elections. But we need to ensure professionalisation in the management of the public enterprises themselves, so that, as far as the Republic is concerned, it is one recommendation from the World Bank that we have accepted, introduced and executive board of directors, so that companies are of course managed by the Director, but the Executive Board that makes directors in charge of legal matters, for finance, for commercial affairs, for working relations and other professionals is formed. This spreads responsibility in decision-making and improves the quality of work. The important news is the public's work. Each step, starting with a proposal for a public enterprise for next year, through a public competition, must be published on the public enterprise's website and the public can also get insight into the results of public enterprises' operations every three months, therefore, in each quarter. As far as the competition is concerned, the public competition is being held by one special body and a resolute minister or a regional secretary or on a local level by the appropriate persons in charge of some portfolio. A proposal is made by up to three candidates, and then the responsibility goes to one, that of those three who have passed the competition independently, that the one who suits the most, must choose the person who will eventually be elected. In addition, what is very important is that there is an obligation for public enterprises to report regularly to the public about their work, and to the government. There is a obligation to do away with their business results. It is now far more tightened the ability to shift directors before the term of office, so as not to tolerate a company accumulates losses or reduces profits, while the director stays in the post. There are also different control mechanisms that the government, that the Ministry of Finance can monitor the business of public enterprises in several areas, primarily in implementing employment policy, in pay policy and in respect of payment deadlines. These are three segments that the government is interested in paying for both the work of republican and regional and local enterprises, so that their business does not deviate from the global economic policy established by the government. The next law in front of you is the Foreign Exchange Act. We noticed that it was one of the laws that introduced too much bureaucracy into business, which is because of the Republic government, and because of the Central Bank, which, by sublegal acts, made the process of foreign exchange quite complicated. There are a lot of forms and a lot of unnecessary statistics and records being kept. This law significantly abolishes red tape in foreign exchange. We keep records really on that necessary statistical record, and we release high-cost businessmen, filling out various forms, payments that are not necessary at all, because a lot of this data was never actually useful in any analysis, and the businessmen were forced to essentially bear costs for it. Also, one of the major changes in this law, which liberalises additional foreign exchange operations, is that paying with abroad can be made not only through business banks, but also through specialised foreign paying organisations via the Internet, such as "single pal", in order to enable businesses, entrepreneurs and citizens to use online payment services. We think it's very important to modernise the payment system towards abroad. So far, the Foreign Exchange Act only knew the possibility of paying through the bank, and they were completely excluded from this online payment organisation. We expect that this will further reduce business costs, primarily entrepreneurs, and help the arrival of the online payment system, such as "sing pal". Here we have, too, some other laws, where there aren't many changes, so I'd just mention them. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act. This introduces one but key change, to the process of restructuring so-called "restructuring". State or former social enterprises limit the maximum until 30 June 2014. So in the next year and a half, the restructuring process should be completed. It's part of the new government reform package, because we want to make it possible in the next year and a half to see which of these companies can be self-sustainable on the market and continue to work as state-owned, which is one option, which of these companies can find a strategic partner and privatise themselves, which are companies that simply can't even after this year and a half to be independent on the market and these companies will go bankrupt. That's quite clear. What we are proposing is that this restructuring deadline should be limited, so that the directors who are now running these companies will also be moved to search for either strategic partners or to do anything to improve business conditions. We've got one big fail-safe in the system, that these are the only companies that are completely shut down from the normal legal system. They do not pay old debts, cannot be applied to the executive procedure, and some MPs also spoke about the budget. We simply have to finish this process as soon as possible. I must say that there are also losses in the business of these companies around 750m euros per year, because there are not only the cost of subsidisation to cover losses by the state, but the entire non-payment chain, communals, makes all these losses. It's about a chain that's just unsustainable and has to be broken. Also, there are a few laws here that change. The Development Fund Act has two newspapers. First, it introduces the possibility that guarantees issued by the Development Fund are guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, but the total nominal amount of the guarantee issued by the Fund is determined by government decisions. This allows the Fund to issue a guarantee for a company, so that the bank that accepts that guarantee is not negatively classified by the Central Bank's supervisory board, but rather has the treatment of a first-class state guarantee. In order to avoid excessive giving of such guarantees, a selective approach is introduced. The government must approve each such guarantee and, of course, there must be space in the Budget Law in order for it to be issued at all and, of course, confirmed by the Assembly. As regards the draft law amending the Insurance Act, it is an area much more in the jurisdiction of the NBS. This law was passed years ago. However, he predicted, as you know, the separation of life from lifeless insurance. This process has not been done until today. We were forced by this law to extend the duration of this existing law for another year. In the meantime, there must be a law that will definitely determine the fate of these insurance companies - whether it will be separated life from lifeless or remain as it is now in composite societies. The National Bank of Serbia is preparing together with the finance ministry the law. This only extends the duration of this current law. The last law in front of you on the agenda is the draft law on tight interest. We are harmonising that law with the Constitutional Court's decision, which abolished the so-called. The comfortable calculation tightens interest and now a proportional method is introduced, and the tightening interest is calculated by a free interest account of a hundred. As for the debt on the dinars, the tightening interest will be at an annual level at the level of the reference interest rate established by the NBS, increased by eight percentages. This applies to everyone, unless some special laws are defined differently. As you know, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration set a reference interest plus ten. So he's sharper than usual for two percent ago. As for tight interest on the euro, it is determined annually at the level of the European Central Bank's reference interest rate, increased also by eight per cent. These are the laws that are before you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6119	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6120	A good shepherd says everything he says with his own mind, confirms by rank. This Bible metaphor of responsibility for a good shepherd, for this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to illustrate the relationship of the parliamentary group of the URS to this topic on the agenda, and right through a demonstration of political relations and motivations under the Law on Public Enterprises. It could be said more sumptuously – and said, done. The URS parliamentary group has a high sense of respect for the public interest and compassion for the real problems of living burdened with many hardships, especially in the time of the economic crisis. We also have an extraordinary sense of respect for our coalition partners, political parties in the assembly majority, with which we are building the Governments of the Republic of Serbia. We are not hiding at all, nor is there any reason why, that we have the highest sense of respect, even of duty, for those citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have shown us confidence in these elections. In the entire election campaign, we made one agreement based on the programme offer of the URS. Those who understood this programme offer have obliged us to represent it with our power and full capacity to participate in the parliamentary majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm saying that responsibility to our own voters is a very important view of the motivation of the URS in the overall work we've been doing for months. Because what were we talking about? We talked about unemployment as the biggest problem in Serbia and that reviving economic activity, increasing investment investments, is the key to resolving this problem. Indeed, what we have done in these few months, rather than making contributions and resolving the issue, whenever it comes to the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, when we have fought to ensure that the missing funds for the implementation of the Fiat car project are provided by Serbia, as we have also made a direct contribution to ensuring Bos's contribution to the investment in the Caves, the Geox investment that is coming, and there will be more. We talked about the need to support and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Everything we've said is manifested in acts, or cutting parafiscal duties, somewhere around 140 of those taxes we've already abolished. We have met one basic topic and the measure required by small and medium-sized enterprises, which is that VAT is not paid differently than on the basis of the collected goods, not on the basis of the invoice, which is also said and done, just as it was the other day in the adopted budget, providing budget support for the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. We said detachment. Partocracy must be mastered in the public sector. It is precisely the proposal for a law on public enterprises that also removes this pre-election and eternal current political topic from the agenda and turns it into a socially positive reality. Under the proposed law on public enterprises, it is clear that politically engaged citizens will still be able to be active in both the economy and the public sector. Let's not create false dilemmas and illusions about it. And why wouldn't they? What an idea of discrimination only for those citizens who have political awareness and a sense of belonging to the political movement, but what is a complete novelty in the public sector, this will no longer be a basic and only condition for the achievement of responsible public sector functions. The new qualifications conditions are also set and triage is also strong and works in favour of professionalising and reviving business mentality in public sector enterprises. Directors, whether or not they have any party membership, must be highly educated, experienced experts must be confirmed in the activities in which the company they choose as director is engaged. Also, members of the Supervisory Board must be highly educated and qualified for the activity in which the public undertaking operates. The election procedure of the director has the tax-based criteria to be met, and the competition commission must also make highly educated qualified individuals decide on such issues. These are, you will admit, serious criteria of the profession, introduced into the law on the basis of the belief that political volunteering and professional ethics and business debt are in reverse proportion. It's not the goal of how the multipliers of different colors want to play it, that as in what kind of witch hunt, we run a haranga into party books. The goal is to launch professional ethics and business in the public sector. This law allows it. Another dimension of responsibility in the metaphor of a good shepherd would be seen in relation to reality. We understand our critics and listen to them in the proposal of this law with respect. We want to hear the critics, because she's just like us, at least on words, always thirsty good, more good, wants something better. I would like to stress that the URS, as a political option, and itself worse with the fervor of civic, revolutionary ideals, that we believe that all humans of God are equal, free to seek personal happiness and all political and economic consequences of this postulate. This does not mean that we are free of respect for reality with our ideals. The creativity, the originality that ideals run is just one component. The URS knows perfectly well that man has no sense of reality. In addition to creativity, education is needed, benevolence is needed, and hands are needed in the test, it takes deep work engagement on real problems to get closer to reality and feelings for real problems. This bill is not ideal. We believe that the departmentalization of the public sector will be progressed, just as we believe it is possible for our society to advance, but it is undoubtedly one real step forward, as the World Bank partners with whom it was made in the ministry to build up a proposal for this law. Finally, a sense of responsibility to the future. We and how we carefully monitor different sociometric research and parameters that point to the fact that Serbian society is burdened by fears. We understand this because of the circumstances of the historical forest and the athenism of the past in which the modernity of our society stood. We do not want to deal with the fact that we consider the balance of social fears with positive expectations from the future. We are in no way dealing with the fact that citizens' social fears, mostly over a long period of time, are stronger than positive expectations and optimism. For us, this means that there is a crisis in Serbia in the future, that our culture, our society, is afraid of the future. Hence, this package of laws and examples of system law on public enterprises is a small one, we agree, quite on earth, a simple step, but a step forward, open to the future. We're a parliamentary group that doesn't live in any castles beyond reality, not in any privileged social circles. Our messengers are from Zitista, from Pogorec, from Nis, from Kragujevac, Sainta, from Leskovec. We speak with the soul and language of this people, and for the sake of this law, we say: "Do not be afraid of the flock a little bit, we have a perspective, and we know where we are going, because the good shepherd says in his mind, confirms by his rank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6121	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Who wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6122	A Rules of Procedure, Article 107, has been injured by National Assembly President Nebojsa Stefanovic, who has not been entitled to attend any meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly for weeks. I have to tell you that this is not directed against you, but as MPs, we would very much like to see the president of this house at his workplace and spend an average of more than five minutes in this room, not because you're doing your job badly, but because we think that this set of laws deserves the presence of the President of the Assembly and that nothing else can, in any way, be more important than something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6123	Thank you. As far as I'm aware, President Stefanovic has a very important meeting and will appear at the assembly session as soon as it is finished. The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6124	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to two laws. Proposal for a law on public enterprises. In the Republic of Serbia, about 1,300 companies and companies operate under state control. In this group, companies are under different forms of control by the state, the Republic, territorial autonomy and local self-government and are characterised by full or majority participation in the underlying capital or management control by the state. They employ more than 280,000 workers, accounting for more than 15% of the total number of formal employees in the Republic of Serbia. According to the NBS list, 716 public enterprises are operating in the Republic of Serbia from the beginning of 2012. In their work, public enterprises are exposed to various problems and challenges. Public sector resolution and a large number of public institutions affect different requirements regarding the conduct of a strategic business policy of public enterprises. Public enterprises are often faced with the problem of not strong public sector institutions, as the owner of a public enterprise. There is a possibility or phenomenon that a public authority holder, who is the founder of a public enterprise, is favouring a public enterprise at the expense of competition and other stakeholders. There are also problems in the domain of labour audit and the results of public enterprises, which is why it cannot be properly assessed by the management of public enterprises. Public business balances show shortcomings, including a vague property regime of a public enterprise. In the case of certain assets, both the title holder or the right documentation is disputed and there is no relevant documentation on the basis of which the genealogy of that property is established. Public enterprises are significant factors in the budget deficit and in increasing public debt, as well as financial indiscipline. In public enterprises, we meet indifferences that do not meet in the private market sector of the economy. In situations where production stagnates or decreases, when incomes do not increase, productivity is low, losses are accumulated, and the number of employees is growing. The proposal for a law on public undertakings is defined for the corporateisation of public undertakings under the force of the law. This bill stipulates that state capital in a public undertaking is divided into shares, shares or shares of certain nominal values and is entered in the register, and that state capital in a public undertaking forms a financial asset invested by the State and the right to use over the things and rights that are in the state property. The law lays down that the authorities of the public undertaking are the Supervisory Board and the Director, and that the appointment of directors and public competition is detailed. The law provides for the director of a public enterprise to appoint a founder for a period of five years. It also regulates the dismissal and suspension of directors by the founders, as well as the appointment of directors. This law also regulates the investment of capital, the distribution of profits, the relationship with the founder and the authority of the founders. The new law should establish full and essential, not partial and formal corporateisation of public enterprises. Public undertakings should be introduced into a company capital system with a two-year corporate governance structure governed by the Company Act, with the same legal form of bodies and corporate governance structure. It should avoid the existence of public enterprises as a separate, hybrid, legal and commercial entity. The new Law on Public Enterprises should avoid the influence of founders on the operational business of a public undertaking, which should be in the hands of professional management, where the influence of founders would be achieved in the domain of the strategic business of a public undertaking. Of course, the SDPS parliamentary group believes this is a step forward and in voting day will vote for this law. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, I would say the following. No matter what this law has only two members, I think it's necessary to point out a few more things. Over 2,300 companies have been privatised in Serbia. From 2001 to 2011, 1,266 companies were privatised, and a majority change in property structure in around 850 social enterprises was carried out between 1990 and 2001. 634 privatisation contracts have been terminated. Compared to 1.266 privatisation of the companies covered, the failure rate is almost 50%. There are over 400,000 people left without a job. Almost the entire social economy of the Republic of Serbia, between 2002 and 2011, was sold by 2.6 billion euros. The expectations of the basic privatisation objectives on radical business improvement, economic development, the creation of an efficient market economy with an adequate ownership structure have been failed. Instead, there was unemployment, social uncertainty, deindustrialisation. The textile industry, the electric industry, the engine and tractor industries, the chemical industry, the construction industry and many others have been destroyed. The most common reasons that led to the termination of the contract are the non-payment of the price war, non-compliance with the social programme, non-continuity of production, non-compliance with the investment programme commitments. The privatisation process itself has exposed many weaknesses – burdening the assets of privatised companies with mortgages taken from banks, selling social capital at multiple prices than the real ones, increasing the value of equipment and funds the new owners were obliged to bring into a privatised company based on recapitalisation, buying more companies where real customers were anonymous, but behind them stood "of Shore" companies, relatives and friends. More than 100 companies have been forced into bankruptcy by new owners, by extracting capital from them. A large number of privatisations aimed at gaining ownership of construction land and buildings, in order to resell them further. Insufficiently controlled this concept of privatisation fueled the concentration of capital, greed and social irresponsibility of new owners. It has been seen to increase unemployment and poverty, an increasing number of strikes due to violations of labour law in terms of income, pension and health insurance, labour protection. The negative effects of privatisation have come to a full extent, while the positive privatisation effects are very modest, but there are. They have made investments in modernising production technology and are mainly oriented towards exports. In the case of restructuring, significant results have not been achieved. In some cities and regions of restructure companies, business operators are involved. The recovery of these companies is essential for the dynamicization of economic activity. Privatisation through restructuring meant financial restructuring, the reduction of employee surpluses, where severances and cash compensations were financed by the state, then organisational restructuring, the sale of parts of the company or property along with employees, the separation of activity in independent enterprises. The draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act provides for a ban on forced enforcement towards enterprises in restructuring until 30 June 2014. The bill takes into account the trustee's interest and their right to collect their cash claims to the restructuring entities. The restructuring process includes 173 companies, including five and ten years. Of course the time has come for these processes to end. More than 50,000 people were employed in these companies, only in the metal industry around 30,000. However, it is not certain what will happen to former giants, such as FAP, IMR, IMTR, IMT, Car Factory from the Kings, Jagodina Cable Factory, "14th October" from Kruševac, "First Five-year-old", FT Bor, "Meadnik", "Javor", "Jumko", "Borelli". Will the restructuring be successfully completed by June 2014 at least in a larger number and will the employees have the existence? The Regulation on the procedure and way of restructuring of privatization entities provides for status changes, changes in legal form, organisational changes, write-offs of the principal debt, corresponding interest debt and other claims, discharge of debt in general or in part, in order to settle creditors from the assets realised from the sale of capital or assets of the undertaking. If it is known that these activities do not provide for a lot of funding from the 2013 budget, can these jobs be done in a year? I hope that there is a strategy and that social programmes will solve many problems. I wonder how the health books will be certified for the next year for more than 20,000 to 30,000 of those who work in these companies? On behalf of the MPs, I can say that our parliamentary group in the voting day will vote for this law, with the hope that most of these enterprises that are in restructuring will solve the problem, in a way that they will heal and continue to operate, rather than be liquidated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6125	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6126	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Advertising Rules of Procedure, Article 104. When systemic laws are passed in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, respecting the public hearing procedure and everything that needs to be respected when system laws are passed, which makes it feel and significantly improves the economic situation in Serbia, when the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, respecting the budget calendar after a long series of years, when the executive power is essentially fighting crime and corruption, and when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia really feel and regains optimism and trust in the state and authorities of the Serbian state, it remains to worry about whether the president of parliament had coffee or tea this morning, to worry about the color of ties or about the shape of the glasses that the president of the Republic of Serbia's parliament is wearing. I think that shows the impasse of the opposition or the opposition representative who advertised the Rules of Procedure seeking the greater presence of Mr Stefanovic in this room. I remind you that Mr Stefanovic plays a significant international role and international activities, and in accordance with Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the work of vice-presidents of the Serbian Parliament, and the activities related to the Hall itself and the course of the session, shall leave it to the vice-presidents and which are within the framework of the ruling furniture, but also to those who belong to the opposition parties. This is also a message for you, Mr. Minister, but also for the entire government, as soon as the criticism is reduced to personal criticism, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6127	I can't give a reason to hurt Article 104 because I don't know. I don't think your argument is related to Article 104, so I have no obligation to answer you. Mr. Stefanovic, you're reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6128	So, the injury of a member in 106 even though just mentioned as Stefanovic, I don't know if he meant me, I hope he did. But to clarify, there was no personal attack, no criticism of the personal or personal relationship towards the president of the Serbian Parliament. The president of the Serbian Parliament is an institution and, as such, it is necessary that he be elected to lead this parliament, especially when such important laws are passed and that we, as MPs, finally welcome that we see our Parliament president a little more in this room and talk to him. It has nothing to do with any political comments that can be heard here. It is simply necessary to preserve the dignity of this assembly and to enable the government to have a man who runs this assembly and himself, and we can look at the President of the Assembly for more than 10 minutes during one session. What's politics and what's personal about it? It's a matter of protecting this institution and protecting Article 107 if you want the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6129	Mr. Granny, I can't give you the right to a replica, don't be angry. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6130	The Honorable President, representatives of the government, fellow MPs, I think this is a debate that should at least be one of the most important things this assembly will have. Since it is, I deeply believe, one of the biggest problems facing our society. I'm not inclined to think or accuse the current government or the previous one of causing the problem. I think it's one of the worst relapses of our non-democracy. When someone who deals with politics was once a director, then the president of the municipality, and then the director again, and then let's say the chief of staff, and again the director and so on. I was hoping we wouldn't have to explain again why such a division of responsibility in a society is bad. In particular, given your previous statements and as a resolute minister, but as well as the parties you represent both in the campaign and what you said earlier, I must say that I do not understand the change that is clear, political, which was made when this law was proposed. This change is most clearly seen in the fact that society is no longer some kind of hostage of the Patrocat system, which we had a common unique attitude but, from once on, it is necessary to defend the representatives of the Party against the witch hunts that they are exposed to by being unable to be the directors of public enterprises. I don't think I'm going to waste my time on that, but for starters, I absolutely disagree with the fact that there's some witch hunt, some poor members of the political parties who want to be directors, and someone doesn't. I just think it's in direct contrast to the reality that we're living. I must say that the issue of public enterprises in Serbia and their business is the subject of every economic serious debate. That's our society's cancer. The company employs 10% of the country's total employees, and it generates 40% of the total debt from the economy. In real language, it's a billion euros every year. The result of this loss that all of us citizens are paying for. As a result, this is due to the greatest incompetence of those who operate these companies, the absence of any control, and they are located in those places solely because they are members of the authorities of the parties that make up the power. If we are going to call reforming a public enterprise, the only serious reform must be a ban on parties from managing public enterprises. Everything else is avoiding giving a clear answer to the problem we have. What's it look like today? Since the first idea of this law was the departisation of a commission appointed by the government, four out of five members directly means completely under government control, because it is also a member of the Supervisory Board that will be part of the commission's each individual appointment will be one of the three that the government proposes. So of the five members, the government has directly set up four. They're making a public competition. Even that's not enough protection for party personnel, but they can propose three, and whoever decides eventually will choose one of those three. Why not the best? What's the problem if the commission sets up a ranking list and tells us this one's the best or this one's the best, what's the problem, why is the provision that it doesn't have to be the best? Don't we need the best? In that we can only recognize the idea, the intensity that goes through the whole law, and that's to avoid decommissioning. Obviously, it was the first idea of the law. It's an idea for which the law is written, but the team, as it is said, "the devil lies in detail", in these details, a step by step completely gave up that idea. I'll give you another example. The number of public enterprises in Serbia is unknown. As MPs, we deal with the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, and she says there are about 700 of them. Of those 700, 650 are so-called. local public enterprises, therefore, companies whose founders are local self-government. These conditions are progress in relation to the past law, since there were no conditions in the past, if I remember correctly, except for some basic ones, there were none. But these conditions don't apply to these 650 companies. The law states that directors of local public enterprises are elected according to the Labour Act. So on them, the conditions that they're not party members, that they have seven years of experience or four, that experts, that's nothing, for 650 out of 700. You say - this is a step enough to change the structure. It certainly depends on the place where you measure responsibility. What we don't need to argue about, is that it's your assessment, reality will deny you. Since 700, 650 has no condition to be found at the director's post. If he can be a member of the party for as long as he is threatened and elected by his fellow parties, what chance does anyone else have? It's directly to the principle of equal chances that this government is supposed to advocate. If I'm to be elected as vice president of the party by my colleagues who make up power, who else has a chance? To imply we have the same other conditions. So that's just not true. The idea that he is the director of a public enterprise may be a member of the party's body if he freezes his function. You know, that's a provision that might be enough for Sweden, Switzerland, Norway. What does that mean in this country? That means the mistake has already been made. If I, and I speak only of myself, do not want to offend anyone, as vice president of the LDP, can participate in the competition and if I am elected, to freeze my status, which means that no one else can be vice president of the party for me and that I will also be on the LDP list in the next election. Then what's the reason I don't abuse her? Let go of corruption and all, the problem of managing public enterprises is much deeper, it destroys this society. Remember the election campaign. Think about setting up a bander. Remember that village next to Loznica or Capca, where the election was repeated 10 times. In the end, they had nothing more to do. An entire village paved in front of every house of ten bandits. A sidewalk better than downtown Belgrade. What happened in the end? Do you think that such behaviour and governance of public enterprises does not destroy the deep democratic order of a society? This is why politicians who are actively involved in politics must not deal with the management of public enterprises. They will not protect the public interest, however they think, but will protect those who have set them up and who are their immediate environment, which make the environment in the call of the people who deal with the policy they choose. No one's forced anyone in this room to be an MP. Each of us had to sign consent to participate in the campaign, to decide that he wanted to be. If so, why must it be at the head of a public enterprise? What's that for? To be on the board, on the board of directors, to manage, to influence, to threaten? What's that for? No country in the world, it is not true that politics influences the management of public enterprises, it is not true, you share responsibility, because you are a minister and you share responsibility for those chosen, but it is not true that you would be absolutely certain of someone, it must be party listeners. Pressure on people who are directors, when you exempt all of this is even greater by this law than it was before. One of the reasons you mentioned is something you call incomplete or false statement. Since it does not say that it is a media statement, it could be a statement in the bar, hence, the resolute minister for the first time has the right to launch the process of replacing any director, any public enterprise in Serbia. That's what this law says. So, if you don't like it, I won't, the Minister of Agriculture doesn't like the statement by the director of the "Serbishuma" from Loznica, he can start his shift. This arbitration which stands, which says an incomplete statement, which has no legal meaning whatsoever, because what is an incomplete statement, everyone will interpret whether a statement is complete or incomplete. If he lists the types of forest he has and doesn't say the Latin name of the trees, is that the reason for the Director's shift? That statement is incomplete. So these things allow arbitration that generates corruption. That's why we told you, this law is not a step away from corruption or a step in line with so-called. The fight against corruption that this government is leading? No, this law has the intensities to maintain the existing state and to justify it, giving birth to a political mistake that is really unacceptable to us, which is to say that this law has implemented a reform of public enterprises and that they cannot be better than they are. That's not true. The law does not represent sufficient reform of public enterprises in Serbia. He introduces the conditions under which someone can be a director and I agree. He changes the board of directors to the Supervisory Board and I agree. It introduces executive committees, allows for better management and I agree with everything, but if this does not make a step out of the party's crucial impact on the business of each of these companies, this is all for free, out of seven you've listed who can be executive director and it's all going to be party members, it's a big coalition, so each party has to get, one for the financial director, one for the procurement director, one director for logistics, marketing. I think the question is, a lot of things have been missed by this law and I think, and that's why I drew attention to my reporting to the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of this session, because it was meant to draw attention to a constant democratic mistake that the previous government had made regularly, and this was only deepening. Laws without public debate do not make sense to enter into the procedure of the Serbian Parliament, starting with a series of crimes you have forgotten, and I am sure this is about the error of someone who wrote the law, so that a person convicted of armed robbery can be the director of a public enterprise, and the person who forged the passport cannot. So that's a mistake. I don't want to believe there's any intention, I'm sure it doesn't exist. These mistakes are avoided by public debate, because someone who is expert points to that. That's a lot of mistakes. We have 20 amendments, but one thing is a political decision. Is abandoning the department actually the cause that it is not prohibited by this law to use the resources of public enterprises in elections? We proposed an amendment at the very beginning of the law and it should be adopted. Such a provision could give a signal, would not adopt those provisions either, would not be enough, but would give a clear signal that public companies' resources should not be used during the election campaign. No bandits, no asphalting, no sugar, no cement packages, whatever you want, no more. It's a deviation of democracy that makes this country worse than it actually is. That circle started a few years ago and if we don't cut it, even with this law, we'll end up as the worst banana state in which a narrow circle of people chooses several people who manage all the resources in the country and then pay in the election support for themselves. See what happened in Romania and what law it had to pass today as an EU member, that it is forbidden to give each citizen more than two euros in the election. Let's not find ourselves in that situation, since this member of the law in Romania shows, above all, how unserious is this election process that prevents people from fighting ideas, but is being bribed to go out and vote for a party. Key support for such a type of democracy lies in the corruption of public enterprises, not in parliament, not in government, but in public enterprises that operate far from the eyes of the public, so far as we do not know how many there are. Maybe the ministry knows, because, accountingly, there's not one place where you can turn and somebody tells you how many public enterprises there are. That place doesn't exist. You said that one member deals with the public's work. We have proposed an amendment, it is very acceptable for the government, that on the website of the Ministry of Finance, to be your responsibility, to publish a list of public enterprises, to be found on that site, all candidates who are proposed for each public enterprise, every programme that they propose, and every report on the implementation of the programme, is a public work. It's not enough to be published in local newspapers, somewhere in Serbia, some kind of programme. He has to be available to those who want to control it. It's the basis of public information, that information is available, not that we're chasing it on websites as soon as it succeeds. As far as the election commission is concerned, we suggest you share the responsibility. We are certain of the outcome of this law, because it does not show, we are also safe, because we are neither blind nor deaf and we see how coalition partners look and we understand what happened. The initial idea is the departmentalization, and then compromises and compromises and ultimately everything can. That's what happened to us. We are telling you, there are models in Western Europe that the Committee on the Business of the Serbian Parliament is proposing to a two-thirds majority a commission member, which will prevent abuses that will surely be imposed on the Commission. So, by two-thirds, he can't be an MP, he can't be anyone, but he will answer to the Committee of the Assembly where the opposition sits. The opposition looks at your every move and the first one will alert the public if a mistake is made. We do not suggest that it be any of us, we suggest that whoever is really independent, it is someone who can have 2/3 of the votes of the Assembly Committee on Economy and Energy. I think this debate should be as serious as I said, and that's why we've suggested for our terms a lot of amendments. We believe that any amendment you accept will improve this law. We are not sure that by adopting these amendments, we can improve to the extent possible, to say that we will all be satisfied. For us, the key issue remains the impact of the day-to-day policy on the business of public enterprises. We think that politicians are under no law, no discriminatory behaviour, unless they are banned from the members of the party's authorities to be elected to the board of directors or directors of a public enterprise. I'll tell you why. The current freezing provision, it does not solve anything, because there is an inequality of the odds present until the moment of the election, because always someone who is a member of a party body, which is higher – this is worse, will be ahead of those who have knowledge. Would you like me to quote your campaign statement: "Partocracy has created a society of unequal opportunities, in which most citizens rightly believe that knowledge and personal qualities are not crucial to getting a job and moving forward in career, but that it depends solely on belonging to a political party," you said in the campaign, don't let it down today. We tell you by a very simple provision – put an end to the possibility of the director being someone who was at least a year before the competition being in political office, and it will destroy the ambitions of everyone who enters politics to be in the offices of the director of public enterprises and from there spread their influence and destroy, we can say freely, this society. It's simple, he needs to win the best. This law doesn't allow him to win the best. This law allows for how – so to keep all those deviations, which have been made in dozens of years behind us. So, they're neither the consequences, I'm going to repeat again, these governments, these last governments, or the previous governments, they're the result of a non-transparent, non-democratic system in which the country has been developing over the past 40 years. It has to be cut one time. What we're being suggested today is dangerous for two reasons. The first is that this problem solves, as I said, and the second is that it's trying to create an illusion that better than this it can't. We tell you – yes. Adopt the amendments, ban politicians from affecting the work of public enterprises, and within a year, the result will be such that each of us will be proud to be a member of the political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6131	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6132	I'd like to thank you for this presentation, for two reasons, the first is that of these eight laws, you've paid attention to this one, which means that, I suppose, these other laws are good, and this second, I have to say that I agree with most of the things you're saying absolutely and I haven't changed my opinion in the campaign. I also advocate depolitisation and professionalisation of the entire public administration, including the work of public enterprises. The fact is that there is not enough political consensus in Serbia, that this is totally done in a short period. There is no complete political consensus that everything is done at once and everywhere, from the Republic across the province to the locals. Of course, every party goes to elections and gets the support of the people in numbers, so the citizens support some program. We've received 300,000 votes, with those votes we have 16 MPs in this House, it's about some proportion in this government. We have absolutely made, as far as our party is concerned, a decision that no one who is a political party can participate in the work of public administration in professional places. That's what we're strictly sticking to, and here, all these people behind me are professionals working at the ministry. Only these two men, two secretary of state, are politicians. So, state secretaries, ministers are politicians, that's the basis of the public administration, everyone else, from ministerial assistants, to chiefs, to management directors, must be professionals and we strictly stick to it in our party and we will stick to it. As far as public enterprises are concerned, I also absolutely agree that the party's functionator should not be the director of a public enterprise, it should be specified whether he will deal with political work or run a company, which is why we have suggested that party officials cannot be members of the public company from the day of entry into force of this law. Whether with this more rigorous proposal that he is not given the opportunity to freeze his function or that he can't be a party official a year earlier, I would personally sign it. There is no more absolute consensus for that within the government and I say it openly and honestly. The government doesn't just consist of my own party, the government is a coalition. This was the maximum we could make with one step forward, because if you read the old law, like the sky and the earth is the difference in this law, and did this law reach that sky? It's not. Can it be improved? You got it. In order to improve such a law, we have really achieved serious international standards as regards the professional criteria for submitting work reports, corporates, and that is where the World Bank has helped us greatly. Their proposal, I repeat once again, is to build an executive board in large republican, public enterprises, not to go to the local, but that the republican companies have an executive board, as do banks. That's their proposal, they say they're good experiences, we suggested it. So, there was no intention of making it possible now, I don't know, you mention party employment, because a complete system would have to rest, that public business directors must be professionals, that doesn't mean they can't be members of a political party. We must, in practice, prove ourselves, there were excellent directors of public enterprises who were members of political parties and there were disastrous directors who were non-party people. So it's not a guarantee, party membership in that sense, but there has to be professionality as a criterion, and that's why we cited for the Republics for the province very strict conditions for, in general, the possibility of competition. Personally, I will pay serious attention to many of your amendments, and I will talk to my colleagues in the government. I don't think the resources of public enterprises are necessarily to be used, not only in the election campaign, but in general, I absolutely agree with you for political purposes. Also, I don't mind the Assembly Committee on Finance deciding on an independent candidate, but I'm simply going to pray that it doesn't cause a blockade tomorrow, through deliberate obstruction, that's what we're worried about. So, we don't mind the assembly board getting a role in the appointment of an independent candidate, but not to abuse it, to get through obstruction, when you don't have a two-thirds majority, no one has to appoint, and then no competitions are ever called, because then it's a disenfranchisement of the law. Personally, that's very acceptable to me. The other thing is, there's one thing we don't agree on. I think it is important and personal responsibility for ministers who appoint a director of public enterprises, because if you let the commission choose the director of a public enterprise, and he works in a portfolio that is under the authority of a minister, here's to say the Ministry of Energy, they're not satisfied with how the EPS director works, theoretically alone, unrelated to this government, but generally, then it turns out that the resolution minister is responsible for a sector that can't be affected by the implementation of key business in a key public enterprise. I think there must be, at least, indirect responsibility of the minister, that at the end of the day when he gets a proposal from the expert commission from three candidates, that even though the three who went through that finale, he chooses someone he thinks is the best, because otherwise he'll always be able to protect himself and say, it's not my fault, the commission chose him. Often and these commissions, and this has proved to be true in even some countries that went to it, when they could be wrong and set people up, to become a state in the country, here are the Slovenians telling me – don't accidentally do it, we tried it and we got it all over our heads, we went back to the system so that eventually the minister could do it. We have really been consulting with our colleagues, even though we have spoken directly from the region, and through the World Bank we have tried to gather some additional international experiences, so that's not a guarantee either. When we postponed between whether the commission itself should appoint directors and then the government had nothing to do with it, or whether or not to take responsibility by the Minister and the Government itself, it is better to assume this personal responsibility by the minister, because if the EPS does not work badly, it must be responsible in the end line and the Minister of Energy, or if the railway works badly, it must be responsible for the minister of traffic. I speak quite in general or for any such enterprise should have a personal responsibility. What's a big change for the better in this law is the public's work. Although both the opposition and the professional public will have the opportunity, I agree, everything we can and what you said, we'll put it on the website, it's just a question of filling the database. I think the public of work is the best protection against the irresponsibility of governance in a public enterprise. So you saw yourself apply the Labour Act at the local level. Why? So, let's be honest, in all the parties today in Serbia, when we talk about the local level, literally no one is ready to go to full professionalisation and depoliticisation. Our idea was, or we'll have the old law that nothing changes to keep everything the way it is, where there is no competition and there is, or at least we'll take a step, let's first see how it works in the Republic, that party officials can't make it work from the moment this law is passed. Let's see if there's any results, if there's any results, it'll be applied at the bar. If you ask me, I'd bring it right in for the place. There's no consensus about it, there's no political consensus, and that's why my opinion was, along with our coalition colleagues, let's take a pretty big step, aware that he's not enough to end this problem, but not to do one. I therefore absolutely agree that it is necessary to make efforts in society to first develop awareness of the need for professional management of the entire public sector, including public enterprises. I have the will to do all that. Many of the things you have suggested are very acceptable to me and I will study them, I believe that some of your amendments will surely be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6133	Thank you. First I will give Mr. Milenić the word to replicate Mr. Andric, and then to Mr. Andric to replicate Mr. Dinkic. Here you go, Mr. Milenich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6134	On the occasion of party books and any witch hunt, I would like to point out that the URS parliamentary group does not advocate or support the extreme, revolutionary maximum of Vladimir Ilič Lenin towards which, if the tree on one side is distorted, we will correct it by bending it to the other. It seems to us that this kind of extremism in overcoming volunteerism in public sector enterprises is undesirable in the form of a ban on qualified persons who are politically engaged to appear as candidates for management and management functions. This ligorism, especially when criticism is simplified, then it gets the form that politically engaged citizens should be banned from working in public administration or working in police, working in the judiciary, working in public enterprises. Then you really come to the brink of discrimination between politically engaged citizens and what's worse, representing a thesis that's not at all in the public interest. Serbia's public interest is the development of political pluralism, the development of democracy and political engagement of citizens. What is a systematic fight against partocratism in public enterprises, which means that political parties should be prevented from usurping public interest in the public sector and that is a systemic issue, not a question of membership of this individual or that individual. This bill comes from the belief that work in favour of expertise, professional validation, education, is precisely a work against the advancement of party volunteerism. All the criteria went that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6135	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6136	I'm glad the minister agreed. It only strengthens us in such a firm belief that we are right. I have to point to another thing. I think it's your duty as a legislator, to tell Serbia and us, so through us Serbian citizens who are against it? Let us investigate the motives and see why someone is against it. I think it's the obligation of someone who's taken so much responsibility to tell the truth about it. Since before you, Mr. Vukic was here on Thursday to answer parliamentary questions and he also said he thought it was possible to take a bigger step forward. Now you're telling us. For these amendments, the LDP will vote, I'm sure DS, and we'll also talk to colleagues from the DSS. That is the majority of you in this congregation. As for party officials, they can be directors under this law, so don't repeat it because I don't think it's true. They can then freeze function. I told you in advance that in our undeveloped political system, that I have frozen the post of LDP vice presidents, neither reduces my influence nor I know how to verify it. I don't even know what kind of decision it is, if I'm still nobody else can be in my place, I'll be the candidate in the next election. What reduced my impact in that freezing? As far as the minister's responsibility is concerned, we agree that it should exist around this exchange, for republican companies. Under the bill, the minister can also replace directors of local businesses. That's what we don't understand. The shift criteria are very strange. For example, they do. say: incomplete or false statement. As the minister will appreciate what some director of a small local company said, about 100 km away from where the minister works and whether it's in an extreme case, is it if a local director offends a minister. It means it's a punishment for verbal delinquency. We don't understand these criteria, and we don't understand why the minister is responsible for something he didn't choose?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6137	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6138	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that in these eight laws there are two laws that were to be considered separately. It's the law the previous gentleman spoke of, the law on public enterprises. The second is the law on terms of settlement of monetary liabilities and commercial transactions. I think these two laws are of paramount importance, because one is for the political future and the relationship to the economy and public enterprises in relation to political parties, and the other legal deadlines of reconciliation is essential to what you said at the beginning, and that is the key problem of the Serbian economy that I speak of every day. It's liquidity. As for these laws, small changes in the Privatisation Act and the Development Fund, these are quite correct changes and are not great. I have to commend this foreign exchange law, it's really good, it gives you whole new opportunities even for something that hasn't been so interesting yet, but there's going to be some new jobs. There's probably not gonna be tens of thousands of them, but at least hundreds or some thousands will definitely show up. What I'm going to talk about in this short time is most of all, the law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, which is along with the so-called law. the tax amnesty, indeed crucial to Serbia's key problem, which is liquidity. As for the tax amnesty law, we don't have any key objections here. I think it is good to enable those in a difficult position right now, to be given the opportunity to pay their current obligations, and if they work within two years, to enable them to tax amnesty. I just have to confirm that two years ago, we proposed such a law here in the Assembly, we of the DSS, very similar. To go back to the law on settlement deadlines and commercial transactions. I think the law has good intentions. It can cause major damage, and that's why at the beginning, Mr. Minister, I call on you to either withdraw it so we can open up a broad debate, but much wider with the businessmen, in the committee's parliament, or adopt those amendments that could really help very much that the law has positive effects. Of course, it's an excellent intention, and I support it, to introduce financial discipline. You have our absolute support, there's no conversation, just how do we get there? You're proposing a state for 45 days, a 60-day economy. I think it is possible only if three conditions are met in Serbia today. The first is that we have a great liquidity of enterprises in Serbia, and we don't have it, we have growth in economy, we don't have it and we have a very effective judiciary, we don't have it. I would say that these three elements are key so that this law could be applied immediately or, as you said, on 31 March 2014. That's one hand. The second hand of this law is that the state is the largest indifference generator with over a billion euros in debt to the economy. So without solving the problems of these debts, we can't solve the problem of this previous one that I've been talking about. I'm sure you have some idea that you can solve this one billion-euro debt problem in some subsequent period. That's why I don't understand why, if we're talking about unifying the law, we've united this law that you're likely to propose, knowing you, I've been working with you here for five years. You'll probably propose to him in February or March. Why today, without a broader debate, we need to pass a law that will not without a solution to the state's debt to the economy, to help the efficiency of today's market. Today, everything is completely the opposite of what I said. We don't even have liquidity, we have full liquidity, we have no growth in economy, we have a decline in economy, we're in recession, and we don't have an effective judiciary, we have a judiciary that's buried in front of me. The question is how long will it take to make it super efficient as well. I'll say it again. The intention is good. The way to get to the score is, in my opinion, today, if it goes like you suggested, wrong. With these amendments and discussion, I will try to correct it, to come to what everyone would like us to have in Serbia today. If it goes into absolute application, we can expect new layoffs, new company closures, and get the opposite effect sometimes, to make liquidity worse. We have 32,000 businesses in Serbia that ended in losses last year. There's 80 grand in the blockade. When we talk about the state, should the state pay within 45 days? You should. Great, we support it. When we talk about the relationship between economic operators, do they have to pay 60 days tomorrow, theoretically I'll say it's good, and in practice we can have chaos. So I'd like to point out that in the manufacturing cycles, completely different production cycles in the machinery, in the chemical industry, in the small economy, in the medium economy sector, are different in the trade, are different in the chemical industry, so we have a completely different cycle of rotation in agriculture than in another cycle that can be much shorter. That's why I'd say it's not easy, I understand, and the promoter, that the flat-rate yield for all branches of industry is one payment system. Also, why should the state interfere with businesses? I'll try several plastic examples to explain that to you. I'm not telling you this as a politician, we're assessing your intentions very well, but we object to the law being passed this way as it is written. We'll vote against it if our amendments don't pass. Get the bank guarantees. If one company gives another company a bank guarantee that they will pay for it within six months, the company simply takes that bank guarantee, goes to the bank, gets a loan to finance production. Or, he doesn't have to go to the bank at all, he has payment security. Sometimes bank guarantees last on big projects and a year, two and three. They exist in industry, especially in machine building, projects that last a year or two. Here, I'll give you an example. The World Bank when it finances someone, when our public companies take credit from the World Bank, the conditions of credit to companies, from public enterprises, are 10% advances, and 90% when the job is done. This job could take six months, eight months and a year and a half. This main company, for example, the general contractor, needs its subcontractors to pay within 60 days, and it will not be charged for another year. He can do it, but he can arrange to pay him in six months if he gave him a bank guarantee. I don't see any reason not to allow when bank guarantees are included in the process, so that this process doesn't extend. As for activity, I can say that in that case if you go radically 60 days at once, it can cause problems. When I analyzed the reason why you proposed this law, I saw that there was an EU directive that all EU members met this same condition by 31 March. I believe I'm right, and I'd like your answer. There's a directive. The directive is for members, and we are not members. Today, even at this moment, Slovenia and Croatia have not yet done so. They'll have to do it by 31. 12. I think this way we can stop the process. I'll give you a very good example from Russia. Let's say McDonald's, one of the world's largest companies, its suppliers, those who deliver bunnies, some who deliver meat to them, etc., paid six months to a year and no problem, everyone wants to work with McDonald's because they get a bank guarantee. Even McDonald's doesn't give a bank guarantee because he's a safe buyer and they want to work with him. They don't need a bank guarantee, just a contract. The company goes to the bank when it sees the bank as the buyer of their product McDonald's immediately lends them a loan to finance production with minimal interest. It's called "factoring." I think that's what's going on in Serbia today. I don't see any reason to get so involved in these terms. If we insist on it, or you insist, I would suggest something else, in order to get to 60 days, I think it's too short, you have to put a maximum 90-day deadline in companies, but now that 31 March, when you decide to go into the process, you start at 150 days, that on 31 March 2013, it's 150 days. When you cut the deficit in 2014 on March 31st, it'll be 120 days, and when you cut to 1% in 2015, it'll be 90 days. So the difference between what you're proposing and what I'm proposing is just a step. I think fullness is necessary for businesses and people need time to get used to it. When the businessmen got a little deep in this, everyone's a little scared. Believe they're scared. Give them a chance to regulate their own obligations. Give the deadlines that would be more loose, so that they can gradually enter this system. There's no big difference between 60 days, which can be catastrophic and 150 days. You can modify, and it will come to 90 days in three years as economic activity grows, as we have a more efficient judiciary and as there will be an improvement in liquidity. As far as the state is concerned, I will repeat, the state must pay its commitments within the time limit set. He can't be an incompetence generator anymore, so I can suggest something here. I spoke to several very successful presidents of municipalities in Serbia and I asked them what they thought. They also think payment deadlines should be introduced. The only thing they're suggesting is that 45 days is too short. Why is it too short? They suggest it's 90 days. In my proposal, I went out to be 120 days on 31 March 2013, to be 90 days in 2014 and that in 2015, when you have 1% of the deficit, it will be 60 days. Why? Because tax returns aren't the same every month. Sometimes it happens to them, especially the first quarter, that two, three months don't charge anything, and then they get all the money at once. In order for them to meet everything they sign and not sign some stupidity that they don't meet, their 90-day deadline is optimal. I think 45 days is really minimal. It won't mean anything to contractors, suppliers to 45 or 90. They care about the guarantee that they'll get the money, and whether they get it through 45 or 90, believe me, the difference isn't crucial. Once again, I want to say that the intention of this law is good, but that we cannot agree on this way, how it should be carried out. We therefore propose either that the law be withdrawn and that the debate be even wider, so that the law is passed together when that law is passed on to resolve these billions of euros that the state owes to the economy or, secondly, that these amendments we have proposed are corrected and thus introduced into a more gradual process, so that businesses can withstand it. Mr. Minister, I'm afraid of the results, that in three or six months we may be in a situation where we have to change the law. You are one of the most prominent ministers in this government, and I think you can already estimate that some amendments that are very well-intentioned, and in the interest of domestic economy, can be accepted. I'd add two more things in the end, about public enterprises. We fully agree that public enterprises should be governed. It's not just about whether it's a party or a nonpartisan personality. There's a million questions. The question is, how effective is it to manage public enterprises? What are the criteria, and how is a company whose price today is social and not economic and you're losing it going to get a result tomorrow? What's the result if we have a social price? We have to introduce criteria. What are these criteria? In order to introduce world criteria, and they're very clear and simple, we don't have to invent hot water, these criteria exist, and above all a few things have to be done about public enterprises. Something's running. First of all, there must be restructuring. After a restructuring that would have had the separation of non-profit parts, which would have financial restructuring and other elements in it, corporates should then take place, as corporateisation is a very important element. In the next segment, which may sometimes lead to the efficient work of public enterprises or to partial or total privatisation, depending on what the state is, the assembly determines, which are key enterprises that will not be sold, which will be sold, which will be partly sold, which will not be introduced into the privatisation process at all. I think those elements are important, too. I'll talk about them a lot more in the amendments. Only if it's a party figure or not, it won't determine a party personality, because we'll definitely have most of the people who are party to it on the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, let me add, the commission to choose is the same consisting of people who are members of political parties. In the end, I'd like to go back to the Law on the limitation of payment deadlines. I think he has a lot of elements that would have to change. Serbia's economy is indeed in a difficult situation today. Liquidity is worse than ever. If these amendments are accepted, I think with the previous law on partial financial amnesty, but also what is necessary, which is the institution that we just mentioned today, because it is not changing, which is the Development Fund, which has to pump up a lot more funds, in order to use its liquid assets, with long-term loans or guarantees, but primarily long-term loans, because businesses need long-term credits, I expect, Mr Minister, in the next period, the proposal is up to you. Credits for up to 10 years with a grace period of three to four years and with very low interest, that is what Serbia's economy needs today. Finally, I think it is very important that we say that Serbia should turn to itself and not accept any more conditions from the EU, whatever they are, because in case they accept everything they want, we would probably become a colony tomorrow. So, Mr. Minister, I urge you to accept these amendments. We'll discuss more, we'll have time. Once again, the intention of this law is good and good, but the damage can be great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6139	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6140	Here's the law on limiting payment deadlines was at a public hearing. I was personally present at one of these public debates, held in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, where one part of the businessmen criticised that we gave as much as 60 days to pay, e.g. Dragoljub Vukadinovic of "Metalac" insisted that it be 45 days. So, and the largest number of businessmen who, I say, do a good job, have insisted that deadlines be as short as possible. On the other hand, part of the businessman who was in trouble was asking questions similar to yours. I will now try to explain the logic a little more in detail, to make a proposal for a solution to this freedom of negotiation between the private sector for which you have asked a legitimate question. So, first of all, how do we intend to achieve that from March 31st, the state pays 45 days? It's a first condition. I agree with you that you can't go through with this unless the previous debts are settled. We intend to do that. I'll tell you how. We, when we made the Budget Law for 2013, parallelly analyzed what the republic owes and what the province and the locals owe to the private sector. We've come to the following knowledge. First of all, you know, about the budget deficit, that's what we've been talking about, we've come to know that the biggest debt in health care, hospitals owe 13 billion, the Health Fund another 13 billion, so 26 billion is due in health care. It is due to the road economy and is due to the construction industry. These are mostly debts that we could identify without the debts of public enterprises that we have no insight into. However, it is important to say that this law applies only to new transactions. So, it doesn't treat the past issue, it doesn't have retroactive application. It applies to invoices to be delivered after 31 March of the following year, i.e. some of the jobs that are concluded from the moment the law was passed until 31 March. If they have agreed on bigger deadlines, they will automatically return to these deadlines under the law, so that there will be no fraud during the period. The country's plan is next. According to the first preliminary data, for the first 11 months of this year the total budget deficit is 161 billion dinars in the republican budget. As you know, a rebalance was planned for 203 billion dinars. It is more than obvious that Serbia will have a lower budget deficit than is planned because of higher revenues than planned, which once again confirms that we have been going with a good revenue projection for next year and due to lower cost execution, after abolishing their own revenues to different state authorities and because of some failure in capital investment expenditures, which are regularly happening every year because of those problems that have not been planned for many years for capital investments, which I have been talking about. Now, the budget deficit has no way of being 42 billion in December, it's clear we'll have a better result. What do we want to do now? Since we've secured the country's liquidity six months in advance, we want to clear some of these debts by the end of this year, and some at the beginning of next year. The debt of health is converted into a public debt of the Republic and will be paid from next year for the next three years. So 13 billion owes the hospital, I'm talking about it, not complete health care. It'll be solved that way. Hospitals will no longer owe anything from January 1st, 13 billion are taking over the Republic to pay off, no interest, for the next three years, every three months in proportional wars. The Minister of Health will explain more in detail here in the Assembly this bill in a few days. Debt Fund, we gradually cut payment deadlines from the current 200 days to 150. It'll be cut short, it was planned next year, and we'll cut it short by the end of this year. The Fund has transferred funds from the previous period. Now a rebalance is being made in the Fund's financial plan and a reduction of payments will be made by the New Year's Eve to 150 days instead of next year, as we planned. So we're going ahead, we're going faster than we expected and planned. Finally, it's not finally, there's two more things. The debts of the passengers, we had meetings with the passengers, with the banks, we would ban one situation that was in the previous period, that the Ministry of Finance had not paid any attention at all, and the Ministry of Transport had concluded contracts where the passengers were paid within three years. There's no way someone's gonna build a road and wait for the money for three years. That's unreal. It's clear that it was done to get a job at a lower price, and basically, no one can survive for three years to be credited and that's quite clear. What happened? These tolls, which are mostly private companies that have done highways or roads, are, since the state owes them and should pay them in the next three years for the wars, they have sold their claims to banks, and now the banks are asking the state to do so. The banks probably charged some more discount when they took over these claims and now, more or less, these firms are in difficulty, under bank blocks. For example, "The Roads of Uzice" are one of those companies, which is in abnormal trouble because of it. Then what did we do? We invited all those bankers who bought the claims, we called the tolls, and we did the next thing. In the future, we forbid that this is how it is done, there is no payment within three years, must be paid exactly according to the situation, within 45 days. The state must have as much money as it has, so much to spread. We'll settle this by essentially issuing bonds and settling that debt to banks in advance in three years. So what happens in this, next and even 2014, we'll pay in advance. Why? Not because of the banks, but because we're going to lift the roadblocks of Uzice, we're going to block the roadblocks to save the private sector in the road industry that's in big trouble right now. It's not just "The Roads of Uzice," there's state-owned companies, for example, Planum, but in general, we want to unblock it. It's going to cost some, just this operation, I think, about 5.5 billion dinars, I'm going to know the exact data now, and we're going to do it in December, now, this month. The budget law also adopted a bond issue plan, i.e. a guarantee for the following year, where the possibility for the state to issue bonds to local self-government and the province, to settle capital investments debts from the previous period. We will now make a decision at the government in December, call on local self-governments and their creditors to declare whether they want the government to help them by broadcasting bonds that would, through local self-government, be forwarded to their creditors for capital investments, therefore, to the builders, to the passengers or whoever did some of the works that were of capital importance. The local self-government would receive a grace period from 1 January 2014, to return the loan to the Republic in fact and return it in two years in equal monthly wars, and the guarantee, or security of the Republic, would be transfers it has to local self-government, so that no local self-government could receive more than half of the annual transfer in this way, and then repay it within two years. That means we're literally giving a quarter of a two-year transfer as the maximum amount. What are we gonna do with this? First, local self-government has to tell itself whether or not it will. It's a matter of volunteering. It's no obligation. The municipality trustee, or the city must say – I want the bond instead of the money, or I don't want it. These bonds could be sold on the secondary market, which means that if contracts are made between creditors and cities and settlement municipalities, we pass on the state, republican bond to the trustee, meaning, to the construction firm or toll, he carries that bond to the bank, he collects it immediately and has money, he gets liquidity, we pump liquidity into the system, local self-government does not spend liquid assets to settle the debt, but gets a year of grace periods, and then pays it back in two years, the next 2014 and 2015, and the Republic is secured, because the loan will certainly be paid back. If it does not return, it will be suspended in 2014, 2015, that part of the transfer for that amount and thus settles the debt. So, the municipality voluntarily decides on it, the trusts decide. That way we'll clean up, this is the same thing for the province, this is what we're going to offer to the provinces and cities and municipalities. This way we will allow all the main debts of the Republic, the province and the locale to be cleared before 30 March of the following year. In this way we will bring state authorities into financial condition, the possibility of paying bonds in time, and develop, in the meantime, a monitoring mechanism through our vault. We'll have a serious information system where we follow our commitments and carry out our duties. I know a lot of people don't think this is possible, but we're very determined to do shock therapy and make a big twist, which we would say, in the state's behaviour, that from the stage of complete vengeance, I'd say, and irresponsibility, where the state's greatest indifference generator of the economy, the state becomes the greatest liquidity generator. You'll see, we think we'll make it. Now we also have financial resources because we have provided advance funding for the state by mid next year. We can do this now, and the effect is, we de facto pump money into the economy. Because all this debt settlement, money finally comes to the businessmen and they can either solve some of their problems, or start production, or hire people. As for the private sector, there is a strong argument in the discussion about the possibility of freedom of negotiation. I said what our fear was - the possibility of this freedom of bargaining that it could be the abuse of some dominant market position and that someone who has this dominant position, in some way blackmailing someone who trusts him, so that he simply tells him - I pay you within 500 days, you will, you won't, you don't have to, and this one has to accept. In that sense, we were in a position to make a very rigorous law. We're afraid that undosed relieving would make him a sugar water. I don't want to. I want this to remain a radical law, but we are prepared to give one amendment, of course, to propose it to the Assembly Committee on Finance, if most agree, to adopt it, which would be in Article 3. The draft law, following Article 5, adds another position 6 which would read – the exceptionalness of the position of the 1st member, by means of a contract between business entities, may also be foreseen for a longer period of 60 days, with the obligation that the debtor, or the recipient of the goods delivered, or services provided, shall ensure payment within the agreed period, by handing over to the trustee of the bank guarantee containing clauses, unrepaired, unconditional, chargeable, on the first call without objection, or adjudicated bonds by the bank, as a form of debt collection security. In other words, you mentioned a bank guarantee, too, to make it possible for the private sector to freely agree with each other to have 75 days, or 90, or 120, and if accepted by the trustee, to be provided by this law or by a bank guarantee, so to the firmest and strongest way of security, or the menu avalanche by the bank. In this way we allow the freedom to negotiate, but we protect the trustee that if the debtor is, I say, in a privileged market position, he can't play it at the end and not pay him. We think that this amendment and this last dilemma, which is about freedom of negotiation in the private sector, would be resolved in the best possible way. Anyway, we've talked a lot to the businessmen about this law. You're probably right, in the last two years, businessmen have been looking for it, thinking it's probably never going to get it, because it turns out that the previous government has talked about it, and it never suggested it. We took this problem seriously. We have seen it, not as an isolated case, but as part of a problem which, as you said, we can only solve in the package with the financial consolidation of the state, by cleaning the debt of the state, by disciplining the state in payment to the private sector, and then by establishing order in the private sector through appropriate security instruments for the trustee. I think we've managed to solve this in the best possible way, under the circumstances. Of course, we have a hard work to do in practice. There's a lot of logistics that we need to use, but through this amendment that, in some ways, would give that possibility I think we're going to solve this problem. Otherwise, only one clarification, for investment works, payment deadlines are 45 days from the moment of receipt of the invoice per situation. This means that they are capital investments, but when the situation turns out, with the dynamics as agreed by the contract, within 45 days of the establishment of the situation will be the payment deadline. That's how it was solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6141	Thank you. Mr. Popovic, right on the line. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6142	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. We've been brought back into a very awkward situation. At the beginning of this session, the MP suggested that this time of debate be increased, so that these 10 laws, which we received by emergency procedure, could be discussed in one normal time. We have a situation again, as we had a few days ago and 15 days ago, that most of the time Minister Dinkic used and that we are likely to end this debate tonight in the late hours. By having the minister answer for five minutes of discussion with 15 minutes of discussion and not only that, but he's not talking about the subject. He's talking about the yawning of the previous government, issues that are purely populist, that have nothing to do with the text of these laws. Please, this is not a fact that the Rules of Procedure is strictly regulated, but in a way, since you are from the same party that it belongs to, it is now a movement, and there is going to be a party, to ask the Minister to use time in a way that would be reasonable. What he does is not reasonable and brings us into an awkward position, in the sense that he demeans the congregation and demeans the MPs. This way, even this little time we have left will have no purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6143	Thank you. I can't agree with you, Mr. Veselinovic. The Minister shall apply the right laid down in Article 96(1). Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr Popovic, right on line. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6144	I call for a violation of the dignity of the Assembly, Article 107. Once again, we had an example of the abuse of Rules of Procedure. How can it violate the dignity of the National Assembly of Ministers who are ready to communicate with MPs and always stand before MPs and explain their laws? I'll remind you that of all the laws we've passed here in the Assembly since the formation of the new government, 90% are laws proposed by the Ministry of Finance and Industry. This means that it is a very serious reform of the entire society, and above all in the area of the economy, because it is the most urgent one at the moment. The minister was here all along explaining. If the minister hadn't come to the assembly, then it would have been a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It cannot be a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, if the minister deems, discusses and explains the laws to the MPs. Please, let us look after the breach of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the dignity of the National Assembly is truly protected, and the dignity of the Assembly is that MPs may ask the minister. It's the essence of democratic processes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6145	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6146	Mr. Minister, I'm glad you accepted the suggestion about bank guarantees. The law will be corrected. To be completely fixed, I invite you, we have time... As far as the state is concerned, I agree. I'm willing to accept your argument, because you've shown me what I expected the state to solve that parallel problem, and that it is the generator of these debts and that it has a billion-euro debt to the businessmen. I would point out that you are considering a gradual introduction of up to 60 days for inter-economic entities. I think introducing 120, 150 days is no problem. That gives great support to the economy, but I'm saying that if it's 60 days from now, I'm afraid the damage can be great. I'd add one more thing, and that's about these fines. That's not what I was able to say. There'll be time for the amendment. What we don't agree with this law is these dragon penalties against the executives. I think they should be smaller, because many of the leaders of fear, I'm telling you about the state's work, that they don't make any mistakes, if they're not sure of the deadlines, they'd rather give up on their activities than be a little late, because the dragon's penalties are according to today's standards. On the other hand, the benefits of these penalties will not be trusted, but will have a budget. I believe that if someone is damaged, the trustee is damaged, and the fine is paid in the budget. I think the key is to think again about this gradual arrival within a year, two, three...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6147	Time. Mr. Shormaz, since I'm in the O.R. right now, can you tell me on what basis you're picking up? (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: as an authorised representative. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6148	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a package of four draft laws that is before us today, three amendments and additions, is a coherent set that should allow the goals of this government's new economic policy to be achieved and to solve the problems we discussed in the budget debate systematically and in the long run. The solutions to these draft laws are on track for the best practice in the EU and represent a package which, not only supports the budget, but also for every future budget, which is a significant relief for the economy. The greatest attention in this package will be given to the Law on Public Enterprises, but it is necessary to highlight all the advantages and benefits that this package brings us. The proposal for a tight interest law clearly defines tight interest rates, as well as late payments in dinars and late payments to foreign currencies. This essentially protects the economy from irresponsible practices of certain national authorities, as well as arbitrary interpretation of tight interest in the relationship between economic operators and economic operators and natural persons. It is clear that a tight interest cannot be attributed to the principal. In my view, a better solution would be to amend the law and supplement the Law on Bond Relations, as a key economic system law, but this is also how the desired goal is achieved. The payment deadline law aims to improve liquidity in the economy and introduces the rule as freedom to negotiate payments and restrictions on 60 days, and in special cases to 90 days. This law introduces a limitation of payment time for the public sector. The deadline is stricter when a private sector debtor sets that deadline by 2015, that deadline for 45 days, except for the RZO where double the longer term is foreseen. This establishes a clear principle that the state is a stability factor in the system and that the country is subject to the same principles, i.e. stricter conditions than for the economy. In this way, the majority's determination to turn a new page in fiscal policymaking is shown. What may be most important in these laws is that the principle of urgency is introduced, and this creates the basis that claims can be charged on a court basis within the time limits that are reasonable for simple debt-confidential relations. The law on the conditional write-off of interest and the suspension of the tax debt comes from a very clear desire to provide opportunities for companies that have accumulated obligations towards the state to survive, but provided that they start to serve their new obligations. This law comes from a logical assumption that, in conditions in which the Serbian economy is located, it is essential to give fiscal incentives to businesses and establish sound tax rules of the game. The law clearly defines a time of default. Introduces a debt facilitation by indexing consumer prices instead of interest, as it has been so far. Of course, this is not an ideal law, because it essentially rewards companies and entrepreneurs who did not meet their obligations to the state in time, but at the same time respects the fact that the time in which this debt was created was specific and that the suspension of companies due to tax debt was a bad practice, if that debt can be paid through this particular tax programme. Of course, liquidity is being traced to changes and additions to the Development Fund Act. They create systemic conditions to lower the risks and reservations associated with guarantees through guarantees from the Republic of Serbia. This is not only the way to security and cheaper financing, but the way in which the responsible state puts its firms in an equal position in the international market, where many jobs in the past have been lost due to a strong system of guarantees that Serbian companies have had, they had support from their countries. It is good that these are being removed and the need for constant amendments to the laws that have been in the solutions so far, if there is an amendment to the Ministry Act. The amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act reconcile two things, a desire to successfully restructure businesses and the right of creditors to collect claims from these companies. The deadline of 30 June 2014 leaves space for a year and a half for restructuring to be successfully implemented, and on the other hand, creditors have the opportunity to plan their flows and cash. This amendment and supplement is a necessary compromise of two principles, of equal importance at the moment. As I said at the very beginning, I will pay special attention to the Law on Public Enterprises. This law clearly defines what public enterprises are, what are possible forms and what are activities of general interest. This law reduces the minimum of this activity and reduces it to those that are common in the EU. It is clear that one of the objectives of the companies is to gain profits, because these companies should have the opportunity to finance their own growth and development from their own incomes and enable shareholders, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this case, to enjoy their specific ownership through the budget. The important fact is that a public undertaking is responsible for its obligations with its own assets, as well as the introduction that one of the five members of the Supervisory Board must be an employee, and the other must be an independent member. Supervisory board members must have qualifications that enable them to deal with what their job is, rather than be, as has often been the practice so far, professional recipients of fees for the simple appearance and nomination of something that was on the board of directors. It is very important that the Supervisory Board will have staff representatives, as experience shows us that in many public companies, representatives of unions and employees were the ones who were the first to point out potential abuses and problems in these public enterprises. What I can especially point out is to limit the number of executive directors and that they will not have their deputies, as provided for by the Business Society Act. Two very important things about this law are that this majority fulfills the promise of departisation and professionalisation of public enterprises, but through clear legal solutions, not through a promise in the press. The Director may not be a member of the party's body and shall be elected in a public competition under the conditions laid down. However, in order for it not to be a good thing for us to ruin a healthy principle with petty failures, at least in our opinion, we must highlight a few of the problems that arise in this area, which will rightly be under the watchful eye of the public. A solution that is potentially bad is that it insists on seven years of technical experience in the work carried out by a public enterprise, because this specific experience is no guarantee of management expertise and it is much better to require that the director has a certain number of years of experience in management jobs. Accordingly, we have submitted one amendment. Of course, if there is room for some changes, additions, or correction, to find some solution that will be consistent with what we represent. The top manager should at least have technical expertise, already conceptual expertise, where the technical focus can be an obstacle, and the lack of management expertise and experience is a huge shortage. The key task of the top manager is not to know the technical characteristics, processes and engineering aspects, because if so, the best top managers would just be professionals in their technical areas. As we know, it's not like that in practice. A good top manager must know the strategic planning process, know that he manages all "steam holders" to extract information from management accounting documents, organise a team of associates, distract and inspire employees and know that he negotiates and communicates. Top Manager's competences are those competences that are taught at high-level business schools, and you know what they are. It's about top management experience, not professional experience. Warren Buffett would be disqualified if he applied for most of the public enterprises. Bill Gates couldn't be the director of Serbia's dedicated industry, and Michael Dale couldn't be the director of the Book Service, according to these criteria. The leading names of the domestic business would be inadequate candidates for most public enterprises. It is simply not a well-defined criterion, to deprive ourselves of the opportunity to attract the best, and we want our public enterprises to really be the pride of Serbia, the engines of development and to have a prestigious career in them. The technical criterion can be left in a much lighter form, and it can be seven years old and it does not have to be seven years old, but it is important to require seven years in top management positions. Stimulation formulations when the directors are concerned cannot be identified as a part of the profit, as it leaves the process for misunderstandings about further interpretation. Performance freaks, as a rule, are linked to the profits of the same company in all companies. The public firm, as I have already said, has a profit as one of the goals with the emphasis that profit use is specific. If we're going to measure the performances of the CEO, profit is a superior indicator, but the only way to get rewards tied to profit-related effects is to bind incentives to the profits achieved, which is implicitly the same as participation in the profits themselves. As everyone knows, not all public enterprises are in the same situation and cannot be determined on profit based stimuli for all public enterprises. But if public enterprises are to finally become enterprises, not a combination of public enterprises and social and informal social institutions, as it has been so far, then it must be seen that the good profit performance of public enterprises does not exclude that the company successfully takes care of the general interest, especially if it operates where the company itself has competition. It would be very good to launch a debate on the profile of people who will be sitting in appointment committees. We need good managers, and we need commissions to be proactive, not just impartial and analytical in the conduct of competitions. It is necessary to think carefully about how the experience from management, human resources of the world's largest companies should be applied by the Commission for the appointment and to have top human resource managers sitting in them. The remark that this government is setting up public business executives and that it is a jesting out of the idea of a department is one notorous nonsense. If we start from the assumption that there should be public enterprises owned by either the Republic, AP or local self-government, then these companies must be accountable to someone for their business and for their work, and some are owners, or representatives of the authorities that are citizens of Serbia in this case. I don't see, and I'd like someone to enlighten me, where the logic is that the directors of public enterprises should choose someone who isn't the owner. What are these people going to do to get in the way, to do good, and who should choose these people? Whether Party A or Party B will account for the work of public enterprises to citizens without having the opportunity to oversee the management process of these companies themselves. What is the responsibility of any party for the work of public enterprises in which it is not, neither sets up management nor can it be replaced? This seems to me at all like an introduction, an attempt to introduce and propose a new self-management with poor practices in the EU that is not necessarily applied in Serbia. Where, in practice, in Serbia, has the superiority of independent bodies shown itself to be also placed by experts? Just don't tell me the two properties are superior. It is one thing to advise, point out because there is no responsibility for you to be more than an active, loud speaker who protects your interests on the models on which our community rests through available legal mechanisms. But it is quite different when in your hands you have the destiny of a company whose property is measured in almost ten billion euros. Political parties are representatives of citizens. We are proud to represent a part of Serbia's citizens who have recognised our policy and we will always democratically discuss the results of each of the people who have received support as the most qualified in the upcoming public competitions. Unlike some other parties who teach democracy, we have no problem having a different opinion in the party. Our membership and leadership don't get rashed, we've been standing on the same percentage for years, and that's a lot of talk about calling for modern rights and ideas only, because it's a clear takeover of responsibility. If instead of a public competition in which the best and where the best should not be a member of the party's body, we will go to the full push of directly elected representatives of the people, then why not privatise all public enterprises and end this process forever. That would be less funny than what is proposed, I mean what some suggest. I'm going to move to the Foreign Exchange Act. The foreign exchange law offers changes that allow for greater freedom of foreign exchange payments, but like all changes, there are certain traps, in my opinion, according to what we have concluded. Article 16 amends Article 23 and creates the possibility of legally extracting capital from a country without record, without control and without tax. A losing company can sell assets and lend money to a dependent company abroad, and then declare a loan to a non-refundable company legally without any control, potential prevention and early detection of abuse. Since Serbia has a significant number of companies that have such tendencies because they have received non-solid owners through such privatisation processes that have been led in the past, i.e. it is obvious that there are companies that have an interest in having bad company balances, and excellent balances of their own owners, this change can undo efforts to break business practices across the "of short" zone and other bad practices. As for the amendment and addition of the Insurance Act, it is technical and essential reforms in the area of insurance still need to take place by adopting a new Insurance Act. In short, I think we're on the right track, this most of us keep those promises in practice, not in electronic and written media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6149	The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6150	Several lies were made by Mr. Radenkovic. Article 106. You have also begun your rules of procedure, Mr Radenkovic, to follow the best practice of EU countries. I must remind you that our bill of law from a few years ago has at the end something called the form of a statement...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6151	Mr. Gjuric, but when you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know she's referring to the president of the National Assembly. You, in your explanation of the injury, are in fact more replicating Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6152	All right, I can talk to you. You did not warn Mr Radenkovic when he said that the law is fully in line with EU rules since at the end of the law, and you have reviewed this law, your legal obligation, is to see if the law meets all the conditions and it has a form of declaration of compliance with EU rules. This form is completely empty in the case of the Public Enterprise Act, except for two items. There's a translation and it's pretty bad titles of the law in English and it has an answer to the question whether it's translated into an official EU language and the answer is no. So, I am not sure how this concludes that the law is in full compliance with EU rules, and from the rest of your presentation it is very clear to conclude that you do not think so yourself, since you have made at least a dozen remarks on the bill itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6153	Mr. Andric's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6154	I mean like this. We're going one step at a time, and as the debate goes on, we're going to get Mr. Dinkic to what you can't. Here, the SPS is the one that makes it impossible to conduct the department. We see two problems in that. One for us is that it violates your election promise, but we're used to it. You said no to the IMF, so now you're chasing the IMF. The president of your party also signed a document offering a daily newspaper, which refers to the departmentalization against which you are now. That's not on us, that's what voters will punish you for, unless you explain it differently. What's our duty as an opposition is to say that you've been telling lies in the election campaign. What's the other thing is that you don't really understand what we're different about. That's the problem. When you talk about an ideal manager, you ask the opposition and Serbian citizens to trust you, and you chose Milan Krkobic to run the Post Office. It's when you choose according to how you think someone is professional, that he's wonderful, that he's smart. We're telling you it's bad. You'll see from the post office results, he's not qualified. I don't know if he was sending letters, talking on a landline, paying his bill at the post office, but it doesn't qualify to perform that function. We think he was in that position by blackmailing the government to find him, not because there was some kind of competition people applied to, so he won. We also think that if someone applied to this contest, they wouldn't have had a chance because the price or strength of blackmail that one of the parties in the coalition is stronger than what is the intensity or at least the intensity of this law. Personally, don't tell you that party officials under this proposal can't be directors, that's not true. Under this proposal party officials can be directors of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6155	Is anyone answering the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6156	Dear Chairman, I would like to warn you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure as Chairman and do not implement Article 27. The Rules of Procedure which obliges you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. A new method has been introduced here lately that's not legalized anywhere, there's no rule of how it's being implemented, and that's controversy. I don't mind polemics, it's a good thing, but let's get her fixed up, so we know when, how, who polluts, etc., what's going on. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure the moment someone calls in the Rules of Procedure or tells you the number of members or doesn't tell you, and then enters the controversy and starts the story quite another. I beg you, until we make the rules, because if we don't agree with someone and I don't agree with everything someone else says, then that means they should keep coming forward and I'm just saying, please, number 106 or 107, and then I tell another story. Please, it's one condition that's not good for the Assembly and I'm asking you to apply the Rules of Procedure directly, and when we regulate the rules of controversy, then we'll behave like that, otherwise this is how we can make a market out of the Assembly, I apologize to the markets. Please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6157	I ask you not to speak in such a way and do not talk about the work of Parliament, because Parliament is not a market and I will never agree that we are markets, because that is how we humiliate the dignity of all of us. As for the violations of the Rules of Procedure, it sometimes happens, and it will decide in the day of the Assembly whether or not it happens, but most MPs of this assembly know what the Rules of Procedure are and I am trying to implement, of course, allowing MPs to explain what they have the right to do within two minutes, why they believe that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has happened. I cannot deny a single MP the right to explain in my own way why a breach of the Rules of Procedure occurred, and I also warned the MP who was a speaker before you, when I felt that he was speaking to another MP and that, on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I had pointed out to the President of the National Assembly, as you have done. I don't think there's been an injury, but you have the right to vote on it, to plead on it. The National Assembly will declare that. The word is Mrs. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6158	I am also the violation of the Rules of Procedure, member of 104, Mr Đuric directly called MP, MP Milan Krkobic, who is appointed director of PTT Serbia. What I don't understand is, this isn't the first time you've asked it as a question. I don't know what you're going through. You're assessing someone's ability. Mr. Krkobiæ has 30 years of work experience, before entering politics, with all of his leading functions and I don't know why he is a permanent subject to you. We could talk about your expertise, too. Based on what...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6159	Now I must warn you, I have warned Mr. Djuric, and now I am warning you, since I am taking care of the order in this session and I am asking you to talk about the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6160	I just wanted to warn that it was simply called Mr. Krkobbic, who is not present, and yet is a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6161	I understand, but I'm also asking you not to violate the Rules of Procedure in that process. I will really not allow any of the MPs to attempt to report to the Rules of Procedure abuse for political promotion in any way. By the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6162	Mr. President, it's obvious that Mr. Andric has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. In view of the fact that he answered the word, and if he did not appeal to the Rules of Procedure specifically, there was no room for the provision of Article 103(4) for replicating...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6163	I apologize to Mr Jovanovic, do you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure can only harm the President of the Assembly and I will allow you to finish, but I am merely telling you that this will now cause again reactions that will say in fact that Mr Andric cannot hurt the Rules of Procedure, because it is not according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6164	What Mr. Petronijevic tried to explain was obviously not clear enough for everyone here. The controversy went without a reason, with Mr. Andric not being provoked at all by anything that was expressed in Mr. Radenkovic's discussion, there was no single place to make an insinuation, that Mr. Radenkovic had doubted the whole law, which he commented on very affirmatively. What he said as an MP and an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, he has the full and legitimate right to comment on the law in the way he commented. In no case did this imply, and there was no room to cause controversy in which MPs Mr. Andric and Mr. Djuric entered.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6165	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6166	Article 27, I think you have seriously injured the Rules of Procedure, because you have allowed Mrs Petrovic to mention my name and that she claims that I mentioned Mr Krkobiæ, and I have not mentioned Mr Krkobiæ in one word. You must ensure that the MPs follow. Secondly, when it has already reported, I think that even the mention of Mr. Krkobbic as the Director of Post is not enough to report PUPS MPs because he is working here right now, because Mr. Krkobic is the Director of Post, and the only problem is that he is also a senior official of the party and the MP, so in that sense there are confusion and overlaps, we criticise it, but please allow MPs to either closely follow the statements of other MPs or when they misquote someone's words, when they accuse them of being mentioned, to interrupt it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6167	That is how it will be, but you too must know when you mention Mr Krkobbić, that he is a member of the National Assembly, that he is a National MP and that the same address and presentation of qualifications that can be interpreted as offensive by the PUPS parliamentary group can cause reactions. Please take care of that, too. The word is Mr. Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6168	Article 104 wrongly interpreting what I said and now with these technical amazing instructions...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6169	I'm sorry, whose misread is it? You can only advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the President of the National Assembly. You can look for that as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6170	The wrong interpretation of what I said, I'm asking you, and you haven't intervened.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6171	I'm not here to intervene with the wrong interpretation of the MPs interpreting each other. I can't let you, because you're hurting the Rules of Procedure, you can get a replica, but after Mr. Radenkovic who asked for it first.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6172	It's just amazing that someone who's been in power for four years in Belgrade and who's been in power in favour of departising businesses, had his political directors and party members and leadership from his parties, and for such a policy, today in Belgrade, the party has not crossed the censorship. Because of our policy, because of our honesty as it was for us, because of our work in the previous term of government and in Belgrade, we have received twice the number of votes and twice the number of MPs sitting here today in this House. I thank the citizens, we will never let them down, this policy that we run is right, and what we're talking about today is honest depoliticalization and we're going towards it and what we promised and we stand firm behind it. I don't want to go into details, and if you want to, who was the director of "Belgrade Road"? He was a member of your party's leadership, I don't know if it's true, I have that member of the GO is Milutin Strbic, we don't know when he's elected, so thanks to his work, whenever he's elected, he's a member of the GO LDP. It's pointless that you're talking about standing up for yourself right now, because you're not the ones sitting in government, because otherwise, this law would probably support the same thing from the heart. And your head of the committee group, then LDP, today unfortunately you don't have that committee group in Belgrade, that was your policy, so you didn't get enough votes and trust of citizens, says the party was for depolitisation, but not in the sense that the directors should not be party members, but to reach the best candidate through competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6173	The word is Mr. Andric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6174	Replica, of course. First, a few lies or more or more all you've said is false. Mr. Strbic became a member of our GO 20 days ago, because you dumped him as soon as the LDP was no longer in power. He was never a member of our party, and we proposed to you and you accepted it then as coalition partners in power, to appoint all directors of public enterprises to simulate the competition. Do you remember why? Because your previous government, which you also participated in, didn't want to pass the law on public enterprises in the way we're discussing today, and we couldn't do anything that was contrary to the law at the time. Let me tell you, none of the LDP officials, which may sound interesting or impossible to you, have been anywhere in that city government or anywhere in any public enterprise, and it's very simple to check that if you don't want to lie. If you want, that's different. As for that, did we cross the census, no? In Belgrade, at this level, in the republic, we received 10% more votes than the previous time, with 15% less turnout at the republican level. We paid the price at the local level because we supported the government, you and others. We've paid that price, they're responsible for resigning, a new leadership is elected, I'll see you in the election next time. As far as the council is concerned, let me tell you, we will never lie like you that we are for something, that we get a result in elections, and later when we become power, we will do everything completely different. I reminded you of two small things, we can also talk about Kosovo, we can talk about whatever you want, so we're not ready to do it, and the price we pay for it is small, because I sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6175	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6176	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know, it turns out that someone supported us, we got twice as many votes, we just did the right thing, someone probably wasn't rewarded for his work, or because he was misleading the citizens, because since then, what if in the words of LDP members and LDP leadership, you've been promising depolitisation and Belgrade and all, you've fought for it, you haven't fulfilled. If we don't meet that by six months, we'll leave town. I don't know what your motive was if you haven't been able to sit for four years and enjoy all your privileges and have your directors in public enterprises in Belgrade. If we're going so low, here's how the Belgrade administration is depolitized. Here we have Danko Runic, a member of the LDP board, director of the European Integration and Co-operation Agency with the Belgrade City associations. So, the depoliticalization is to the extent that a certain gentleman only a few days ago was controversial, so that's the depoliticalization of the company, this is what the LDP is politicizing, so much for your depoliticalism, to what extent it goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6177	Thank you. The word is Mr. Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6178	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, first you hurt the Rules of Procedure because the Law on Public Enterprises has nothing to do with any administration in Belgrade. Secondly, the man also became an LDP official 20 days ago, because there is a tendency, as I said 30 seconds ago, that as soon as there is no LDP in that government, everything is done by force and all directors are being replaced by non-members of the ruling parties. That's what you do, which is consistent with what you're doing here. The problem is that you signed a statement in the campaign, that you're in favour of the department, and now after the election, you say you're not. On the other hand, you show one picture and it's a very serious thing. What's the point of that picture of you? What's the controversial thing about that picture? You didn't explain. Is that costume in that picture, is it not part of our country, in your opinion? So what's controversial about the fact that someone dressed up in it, what's controversial? You know what, you can claim that the LDP is responsible for everything, we don't care at all, but you can't claim that you didn't cheat on the coalition partners you're with today, and today you're with them by cheating on your former coalition partners, and so these coalition partners today, they were in power because they were carrying badges and they were radicals, we gave you support. This hypocrisy today, to accuse us of it, is the price you will pay, you personally have political faith, because you have also asked us to support you and DS last time. You're forgetting all this today, you're making a lie that we've been making some kind of statement about about six months. You know what, it really speaks a lot more about you than it does about us and it's an honor to you, but something like that violates all the rules of this House, Mr. Chairman, I'm coming back to you again and I'm talking to you. If you let it go, we'll get ready, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6179	Thank you. Mr. Andric, you said that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done because Mr. Radenkovic's exposure had nothing to do with the law, so you said, that was the first sentence. I'll find you a stenogram. I'll read it to you in 20 minutes. So, I believe that Mr Radenkovic was speaking, so he had the right to a replica, which referred to your previous exposure, which, I say, both touched the issues of the agenda, but they got more into the controversy. Mr. Djuric has his word on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6180	I think you've actually violated the Rules of Procedure now, because you've reacted this way to what Mr. Andric was talking about. Please make sure we calm down in this House. We can discuss everything, 104, 27, 106. So we can argue just don't let anyone else in the country with such tragic experiences put a target on someone's back. What Mr. Radenkovic does when he talks about Mr. Runic, that's exactly what he does. This is just another phrase about Slavko Curuvija, which calls on NATO bombs. This country has terrible experience with such cases, with political violence, you yourself spoke of it a few days ago. Don't let anyone in this House, especially a political party who's done it in the 1990s, do something like that. Please don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6181	I would certainly ask all the MPs, given that we have a serious topic ahead of us and I think we heard it, I have allowed a debate that has lasted for 30 minutes. I think that after this, we should go back to work completely and to the agenda, that is, the law that is before us, so I would ask you, Mr Radenkovic, to give up those 30 seconds, I think that one sentence could also cause new answers. If I have any influence with you, please give up, I don't think that one replica is as significant as a return to work. So you're not giving up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6182	Thank you, Mr President, I hope you will not take me for evil that I have disobeyed you, yet you are the President of Parliament. For last, I won't answer again, we won't talk about trust, I repeat as much as anyone has given to whom. God forbid we asked you for something, you pleaded here alone that you would vote for all European laws and help the previous ruling majority, we did not ask you to do so. Which one of you asked for it, we don't really care. They're neither leaving us, far away, knocking into a tree, MPs, nor leaving us party founders, nor leaving us municipal committees, we don't know what you're talking about. Don't look for your responsibility in someone else. Let us work, we work in the interest of the citizens. The citizens are here to say theirs, they said in the previous elections, they'll tell the next one, and I thank them once again, and I don't want to talk, there'll be an opportunity, we'll talk about the details of everyone's policy, don't open that controversy now. Here's the law on the agenda, the Law on Public Enterprises and the other set of laws, this package that's on the agenda. Please, on that behalf, I urge you to return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6183	Mr. Andric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6184	This way, of course, I don't think that you and I are having any doubts about the political party's behaviour, except the extent to which you violate the public interest. In my deep conviction, the appointment of Milan Krkobibic and your insistence on such solutions deeply violates the public interest. If it's your idea... (President: Please, Mr. Andric, you know that Mr. Krkobic, as we have already established during the debate, the MP, please, your mention of his name will always cause... ) Mr Stefanovic, you cannot expect the opposition to appoint these people who... (President: No, you have the right, of course, to mention people with public functions, of course you have the right, and no one can deny it to you, but I only ask that the tone in which you speak about Mr. Krkobbić, be appropriate, nothing more. My tone is the result of my belief in his ability, I'll try, but sometimes it's stronger than me, what to do. It is simply not my intention, of course, to offend Mr. Krkobbic, but what cannot remain denied in this assembly, it is our right as an opposition, to warn of everything that is bad. When, as an argument, something is wrong, you are not giving arguments as to why it is good, but, let me say, you are using the fruits of your work, such as the kidnapping of our MPs. Mr. Radenkovic, it is against every principle of democracy. If you buy our MPs and then you say it had something to do with some of our policies, no, it has to do with the personal integrity of that MP, and our mistake is so much so that he's on our list. We accept that mistake and it won't happen again. His behaviour cannot be counterargument if we say someone has been elected to one of the largest public enterprises in Serbia, not according to their professional capacities or abilities. (President: Time. You interrupted me, if I may finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6185	Please, two minutes and 17 seconds. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6186	I have to report as an authorised representative of the United Pensioners of Serbia party. Mr. Krkobic is head of the parliamentary group, among other things. I really don't understand, and I don't know how long we're gonna talk about his expertise. I'd like someone to explain to me what it is that you think is expertise? What is it that will qualify Mr. Krkobbiæ, so that we know when there is a competition, to apply. Because if his qualifications and his 33-year experience, higher education, management of financial houses and banks, another man in Belgrade for four years, and you were there at the time, and I know the names of the people you put there that I'm not going to mention now, should you, Mr. Andric, tell us what's controversial about Mr. Krkobic's biography? People listen, let's hear what it is that's controversial. His résumé has been hanging since 2008 on the Belgrade city site, currently hanged on PTT. You keep pointing out his intricacies. In doing so, you forget that you are not invited here to evaluate his expertise. I'd like to move on to what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6187	I, too, ask you not to address other people's MPs, for it violates the Rules of Procedure. The word of the messenger of the people is John Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6188	Mr. Chairman, under Article 106(1) and Article 27. We don't care who he is or didn't cross the census in Belgrade. We're not interested in Mr. Krkobic at all. We're not interested in these subjects at all. We are here to discuss a set of very serious laws, and we want to discuss it and our MPs are waiting neatly to come to order. There's talk here about everything else, which is regulated by Article 106, except for the agenda point. Their relationship with each other in the previous period, who has deceived whom, who has promised whom, let them argue outside this room. As they ruled, we see where they led us. Please, Mr. President, respect the Rules of Procedure and take away the word when it comes out of the agenda theme. Otherwise, our parliamentary group will also be very happy, if it is a practice, to engage in the lifting of the Rules of Procedure and to discuss the things that we are interested in here and we cannot, because we stick to the Rules of Procedure and the agenda. Please, from now on, otherwise we'll report to the Rules of Procedure, you'll stick to the 106th and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6189	No matter how much I agree with you, and I have already made several requests to return to the agenda, as you know, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly prevents the President of the National Assembly from denying any right to request a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Any MP may request a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I must listen to his explanation and, in that explanation, he can say in a creative way what he thinks I have violated the Rules of Procedure. I've asked the MPs several times, and I'm doing it now. I think going in circles, in circles, constantly repeating won't go in favor of citizens, first of all, because I think people notice that the constant reporting of the violations of the Rules of Procedure doesn't contribute to the popularity of the National Assembly. I wouldn't go in any further. That's what we all need to take care of. That's why I'm asking you to come back on the subject. We've had enough time to discuss everything. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Andric and Djuric to give this up. Please, so we can move on to the agenda. You're right, of course. My request is to you as well as to Mr Radenkovic. He wouldn't listen to me. You have the right to ask for a word. Mr. Djuric was first, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6190	I will only talk about the law on public enterprises, which today is the central point of the agenda. I didn't mention Mr. Krkobic, I didn't launch that debate, but you apologized to me for misstatement. I mean, you apologized for mentioning me, you didn't apologize for the other part when you mentioned my biography. That's what this is all about. I am prepared to show my diploma and my work book at all times to the public, and apparently Mr. Krkobic is not. The other difference is that I didn't run for director of a public firm, and I would never do that. I'm in politics, and I'm an MP in this House. About why, for example, Mr. Krkobbic cannot be the director of the company, he speaks the law proposed by your Government and which I suppose you will vote for, which says he has at least seven years of work experience in the area of which the public enterprise is established. I'm not sure Mr. Krkobic has it. That he's not a member of the political party's body. You yourself said it was about the vice president of your party and the head of the parliamentary group. It's the only misunderstanding between us. We weren't personal at any time, nor did any of us appreciate the expertise. I'm just saying that there should be a competition and it's not normal for senior party officials to be directors or executives of public enterprises directors and none of these people here, LDP MPs would want to be. We think that this is not normal in democracy and in a system that should be based on the basic elements of an open market efficient economy. That's all we talked about. No one has anything personal against Mr. Krkobiæ. I absolutely don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6191	The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6192	I apologize again, if there wasn't enough of that apology from a little while ago, that I misjudged you, that I suspected your work biography. Everything I said was directed to Mr. Andric. On the other hand, I really don't know what kind of work experience you both have, other than political? I don't know why your political experience is stronger than your work experience, which Mr. Krkobibic has had over the past 30 years and change? You attacked us, or named Mr. Krkobbiæ for his biography and his expertise and at the time until the draft law on public enterprises arrived, so you did not know what clauses would be in him. You didn't know if it was going to be seven years or this or that. Mr. Krkobic publicly gave his biography in 2008, at the moment it was necessary. He's shown his expertise. I don't know what's going on with you guys, come on, throw out your biographies. The question is, would you know you run some firms? Maybe that's why it's your choice to just deal with politics?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6193	Don't, Mrs. Petrovic. That can be offensive. I really need to interrupt. You gave her a very difficult qualification, I just heard it from you. Mr. Djuric stated he was asking for information from you. You said you might not be able to run a public company. You know, it's an offensive qualification to me. That may not disqualify that qualification. All I'm asking is that we all take care of the way we talk to each other. I don't mind this debate going on like this. I think this is a problem for citizens, for the National Assembly, and the problem is that the laws we advocate being adopted as soon as possible are not quickly adopted for the reason that we waste people's time. Again, I ask you to return to the agenda in which we can discuss what is on the agenda and a very important topic for our society. I'm giving Mr. Andric the right to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6194	I'm going to try this replica to finish this controversy, and if there's no offense, we're not going to pick up any further. We believe it's deeply wrong that someone can run a public enterprise because it deals with politics. We think that the fact that someone is the party's vice president or that he has received some votes in the elections does not give the politician the right to run a social or public enterprise. That's what we're different about. What's strange to me is that you expect all of us to love someone who performs a function. We are in no condition to do so, and for that I apologize to you if it offends your personal feelings for the name and last name we mentioned. It's true and you're right, we were against this bill before. We'll always be against it, but for the reasons I tried to explain today in my twenty-minute statement on this law. I'm ready to do it again. It has nothing to do with any personality. I think the involvement of politics in the management of public enterprises is bad for society for 1,000 reasons. Some of the reasons are that there is no interest in the company, because whoever was set up is a bad owner and that the resources of these companies are, as a rule, being misused in election campaigns. That's not the kind of opinion we're gonna give up on. What has served us as an illustration is the request of your coalition partner that we trust that you will choose, and if there are no conditions, someone who, in your opinion, is professional. I'm telling you, we won't agree on that. Therefore, there must be a clear law and therefore, in our opinion, no one who has performed a post in a period shorter than one year to the election as director can qualify as director. We're gonna stay here and no fight this guy's gonna change our attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6195	Thank you. I think I've allowed everyone to indicate to a sufficient number of replicas what they thought. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6196	Mr. President, I agree with you that after a certain time we managed to get back on the subject. For the New Serbia parliamentary group, following the Budget Law, this set of laws under the third item of the agenda of this session is very important for the liquidity of the economy and for financial discipline. I'm going to say a few sentences about each of these laws, in terms of the proposal and the necessity, which is why I think they should be voted on. The draft law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions shows the state's determination to deal with the situation in the economy, where everyone owes. The aim of this legislative proposal is to set the state an example of respect for deadlines, instead of an indifference generator. I absolutely agree with this law that we should change the system in which there was a habit of making commitments without paying and the debts being accumulated. We fully support the proposal to limit payment deadlines for the economy to 60 days, and for the state to 45 days, as well as penalties provided for by the law for non-compliance with deadlines. Although many colleagues and Minister Dinkic himself have said that this is a shock therapy for our economy, we have to start from some order, because it is totally unacceptable for the deadlines to be 129 days in Serbia and that we are a country that is not only lagging behind in terms of EU members, but we are twice as bad as Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia, countries in the environment. I also think it is very important that the EU set some deadline for March 2011, that there is a obligation for EU Member States to implement it. We are a country awaiting a deadline for starting negotiations. I think this is the moment when some things, bad business habits, rooted in our economic environment, finally start to change, regardless of what we do not have as a member of the EU. What makes me particularly happy under this law is the fact that the need to stimulate agriculture, agricultural production, has also been recognised here. In Article 3(6), the registered agricultural holdings, i.e. agricultural cooperatives, are exempted from this provision when it comes to the purchase of re-rommaterials to carry out basic work. I am particularly pleased that a suggestion has been accepted in the public hearing process, that this deadline is even shorter, for 45 days. The novelty in this law is also a provision in Article 5, which prescribes a fine of 20,000 dinars for late payments. This punishment is more than a symbolic character compared to more than one million obligations, but I think this is also a good move. Articles 8 and 9 of the Law established the jurisdiction of the Treasury Administration, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, of the exercise of supervision of the implementation of this Act. It is also of paramount importance that the provision of Article 10 provides that the judicial procedure for the implementation of unsettled monetary obligations is to be carried out in application of the principle of urgency. Finally, an appropriate period of four months has been left until the start of the application of this law, which I believe is also a correct solution. As for the proposal for a bill on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, I think the first one should prevent a pile of debts and the second one will settle the old debts. In this process, the state will take the first necessary step to encourage the economy with shorter payment and tax interest. The write-off will not only help those who owe but also those who do business with them. From the point of view of fairness, it should be borne in mind that a large number of entrepreneurs were prevented from fulfilling tax obligations because of the inability to collect their claims in time. What is very important is that this law changes the proposing from the previous situation is this circulation of money through the economy, which will allow the state to maintain stability and ensure financing in advance for several months, not week after week as it has been a practice so far. That way, all those who work in schools, hospitals, courts don't have to worry about getting paid in time. What is most important in this law, the NS parliamentary group believes that they are actually changing a system that has previously allowed state non-discipline, and now, through the settlement of old debts, we are making a system to avoid making new debts and that's good. If we succeed, I agree with the Ministry of Finance's assessment, above all Minister Dinkic, that we will have at least 2% of the economic growth next year and that it will finally be felt by citizens. Finally, the fiscal discharge of entrepreneurs should lead to the preservation of jobs, new employment, i.e. to a higher investment by employers in their own core activity, and the only problem with the interest write-off law is that those who have regularly settled their obligations have been brought into an unequal position. You, Mr. Dinkic, have said several times so far that it is a moral dilemma for you, how in some ways you should separate those who should be commended for paying off and regular reconciliation of their obligations from those who have never done so before. As far as the proposal for a law on public enterprises is concerned, I believe that all our businesses have been public so far, and that, mainly, the honor of exceptions has been done in secret, and this bill should lead to increased efficiency and transparency of their work. The biggest problem of our businesses is debt and corruption, and I think that this law, primarily through a procedure for the appointment of a director, who is very transparent and public, as well as members from 37 to 39 who define situations and reasons why it is possible to resolve the directors of public enterprises, will in many ways enable corruption in these public enterprises to be reduced. Members of the 43rd and 44th prescribe the obligation of the Commission to audit in public enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, and in particular I believe that it is an important provision of Article 53, which prescribes the obligation of public undertakings to submit a monthly report on the deadlines of reconciliation to economic operators, which are set out in another law which we are currently discussing and which promotes the principles of financial discipline and equality of the position of all market participants. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is very important that this law sets out the composition of the Fund's Management Board, which will, above all, allow the shortest possible time to process the demands of economic operators for additional funding. The important news is that the Republic of Serbia guarantees guarantees granted by the Fund, but above all, I think it is very important that this law will allow easier access to bank loans, as well as that investors first and foremost draw closer to the role of the Development Fund. These are all the reasons which currently exist and which represent difficulties in obtaining cheap loans from business banks, which this law will solve. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, I would agree with Minister Dinkic that the deadline here is very important this 30 June 2014 and that this proposal will be entrusted to businesses whose claims are not negligible and whose liquidity is often threatened, as a result of the inability to collect, will be able to plan their further jobs with a higher degree of security than it has been the case so far. When it comes to privatisation, I can't help but mention that the situation in privatisation is catastrophic, that 80% of privatised companies are in bankruptcy proceedings, that every fourth contract is broken, and that's why they pay citizens. If we want to be a serious democratic state, we must not allow the unpunished perpetrators of the crimes in privatisation to remain. That is why we support the government's insistence, and above all Vice-President Vukic, that they simply seek not only to examine these 24 privatisations that the EU requires, but all the controversial ones, which are very many. The draft tightening interest law came primarily due to a decision by the Constitutional Court of July this year, which found the interest rate to be unconstitutional. This tightening interest law resolves this and is in line with the EU. As I said, these laws are very important by following the laws of implementation of the new budget for 2013 and the NS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6197	Thank you. According to Articles 27 and 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I will now set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue at 1600 hours. Also, according to Article 87(2). Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today until 1800 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6198	We're going back to work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO-DHSS will, through views on this group of proposed legislative solutions, show that what they said, not only at the beginning of the work of this government, but which is our political position from the establishment of our political parties, that everything that we think is a good solution, first of all, good for the citizens of Serbia, that without any prejudice, we will support everything that we think is not good, we will not support, but that we will offer a solution. In that spirit will be my exposure today. As for the Law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, it is a law that offers good solutions, that in conditions such as business, above all, in the private sector of our society, we know that it is not sufficiently developed, that there is still not enough support for the system institution to develop in the way in which the private sector operates in the EU countries, which is our common goal. We don't think with this solution the state will be at any loss, because by revorizing the basic debt it will charge, however, only through the wars, anything it requires from the company, but companies will be released from almost doubled amounts on behalf of interest. This is something that should have come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia before. I say, our parliamentary group will, without any problem, support such a solution. As for the Law on terms of settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, it is a solution that is better compared to the existing situation, a solution that seeks to seduce financial discipline. In an analysis of the cause of the current situation and current mutual payments, claims, etc., all agreed, from Mr. Minister to MPs, that the country is the worst employer, that the state is exactly the worst braker and gives it the right to our parliamentary group, which, since the establishment of our parliamentary parties, has asked for radical changes in the social, political and economic system. In our economic system, there has been no such change until today, and some of the solutions that I will talk about later show that there is not enough political will in this government to come to some radically better solutions in the next period, and that is just the way it is with us. Anyone who, in a positive sense, advocates better solutions is very quickly suppressed by most people who don't think so. In that part, I also fully understand the position of Mr Dinkic, who confessed to the MPs, which is a bold statement, a fair and correct statement, that the Law on Public Enterprises would look different, but that there was no political will for him to get that form that we all expected would have and which was needed. As for the Foreign Exchange Act, it was simply amazing, especially in a conversation with foreign investors, that we constantly explain to them that foreign exchange can only be done through business banks. They didn't get that in their head, and this solution is elegant and in spirit with those solutions that we seek. As regards the privatisation of restructured enterprises, it is good to wake up firms in restructuring and bodies operating them in this way. We also know about the Privatisation Act that there have been a lot of Privatisation Procedures, that they have been unnumberedly extended, that in 2012, we still haven't finished the privatisation process in many of the former social enterprises currently in restructuring, which is another indicator of what I said at the beginning of our discussion, that DHSS-SP has been chasing positive changes since its founding, but that all these governments, in particular, I think of governments after 5 October, had a lot of calculations in a negative way. I have been in this Parliament countless times, and I want to say today, that the real and only reforms in our system since 2000 have been carried out within the banking sector, but there is also that joint conclusion from the beginning of my discussion, that wherever the state has set up management bodies, wherever the state has had either the majority or part of the participation, above all, the majority participation in the capital of these banks, these banks are exactly banks with the most catastrophic business, banks with the highest degree of corruption, crime, banks with the highest degree of public participation, and therefore all of us who meet with Serbian citizens daily, Serbian citizens say that there is no state in us. The fundamental question for this government is, I have no doubt in my mind – do we really want to strengthen the institutions, strengthen the state, restore citizens' trust in the state? It seems to me that there are some hints, but some hints of that story can also devalue. We all agreed at the beginning of this government's work that our institutions were not sufficiently built, insufficiently independent and that the overall environment in which we are located was not good. It seems to me, that's the assessment of our parliamentary group, that even here, as far as many solutions are concerned, one step forward, another step back. What I want to say to Minister Dinkic is that he can freely and he is the minister who came here with the most legal proposals he has, and it is recognised, clearly intends to change our society in a positive sense. Whenever you come with some positive solutions, as was the last time, regardless of being the same parliamentary group, as far as all those decentralisation laws are concerned, the SPO has publicly supported and signed it, and from any parliamentary group, to come positive solutions, we will support it. That is why I return to the beginning of that story when the government is elected and the position of our political party – I think the citizens are tired of that party bickering while, at the same time, unnecessary solutions. It seemed to me, radically negative statements both by the authorities and by the opposition, that the government would make radical cuts, in that sense, that it would show all of its strength, and here I mean something with a pesoratic omen, and on the other hand, that the opposition would be extremely sharp. We had our political stance that we will not change, that we will be a reasonable opposition, an opposition that will support everything that is normal and everything in the interests of Serbian citizens, but also an opposition that will criticise everything that is bad and propose solutions. As for the Law on Public Enterprises, both the minister and most of the heads of parliament's groups agreed that the state is the worst employer, that public enterprises are enterprises that do not operate according to the principles of modern businesses, that they are enterprises that are largely overcrowded by party personnel. Because when we talked about the budget rebalancing and the budget, we thought about the way Angela Merkel thought about it, when she made some bold and unpopular decisions, but she also had the consent of the entire society and all relevant political parties, that is to reduce the number of employees by 10%, to limit the growth of wages and earnings for a time, to help the state and society get out of the crisis as soon as possible. If today on our political scene Angela Merkel, De Gaulle or Ataturk of our days, the SPO-DHSS will surely recognize and support him, since we are not members of the ruling majority. What is a general assessment of the Law on Public Enterprises, which is that this is certainly a step forward in relation to the existing situation, but is insufficient. Many parliamentary groups and our parliamentary group, above all, our MP, Ms. Olgica Batic, has submitted a lot of amendments on behalf of our parliamentary group, which we want to improve a few things. First of all, as regards the election of members of the Supervisory Board and the Director, we think it is necessary to count crimes that do not qualify for someone to be in that place, because we now have a solution, let's say, in supervisory committees, there will be someone who is convicted of the crime of illegal charge, payout, unintended use of budget funds, embezzlement, trade in influence, receiving and giving bribes and giving off official secrets. Of course, seriously, we do not think that it was the proposal's intention to allow such persons to be found in such places, but we think it is the result of some oversight that can be corrected by the adoption of the SP-DHSS amendment. As for the discharge of the director, the degree of stability of such an important position, it seems to us that the law is not sufficient. On the other hand, we have some illogical solutions that, for example, the director who received the court's notice, that's not a condition for his resolution. The lawyers know that the prosecution is a punishment, that this is due to the conduct of criminal proceedings and the finding that someone is the perpetrator of a crime. Then we find someone who has committed a crime, regardless of who has received one of the mildest punishments, qualified to continue to be the director, and on the other hand, for someone against whom a pre-criminal procedure is being conducted, who is yet to be investigated whether there are elements of the crime, the law proposes to be resolved from the director's post by automism. We don't think that's a good solution. We think it's a good solution that only when the indictment comes into effect, means when in that certainty, even then the prejudgation of innocence is compromised, but with a higher degree of certainty we can assume that the person is the perpetrator of the crime. That's why the amendment to Olga Batic went that way. As for the Development Fund, or the Development Fund Act, it had in practice and a lot of good solutions and a lot of good experiences with it, but we also have some negative experiences. We think it is not good that the Development Fund is one of its missions, the development of infrastructure, and we all know the state of the infrastructure in Serbia, which is not treated in this way. On the other hand, a solution has been offered here that we are not sure is in the spirit of our Constitution. According to automation, the law provides guarantees for the Fund's commitments, and then the government only determines at its sessions the nominal amount of these guarantees. Under the Law on Public Debt and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, only the National Assembly can owe the Republic of Serbia. This is one solution that may, in practice, speed up some procedure, but by contrast, by being out of Parliament and MPs' control, by sitting in government meetings, despite the government avoiding phone sessions, the government may hold a telephone session and thus guaranteeing the Fund that it may be in some large debt or will not have funds in its account. That is why we believe that this solution is not good and that guarantees, which are a form of borrowing, are often due to certain borrowing, and yet in case guarantees are realised, the funds will be charged from the Serbian budget, meaning of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This should be returned to the roof of parliament, because that's what the Constitution requires, and that's what our logic requires. From the attitudes to our amendments which seem to me to be very correct, very constructive, we have also looked at the amendments of the other parliamentary groups, there are many quality solutions, and our support for the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Development Fund will also depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6200	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6201	What I'm saying is that we used this break to review these amendments that arrived just before the session. Your parents arrived early. I can immediately inform you that the government will accept almost all the amendments to Olga Batic, because they are very precise and paint what was our intention as a promoter. The people who wrote the law failed to put in the text that they couldn't be a candidate for the director of the one who committed the crimes, or who were disqualified in that way. It's the same for the board of directors. Everything that's about that we've accepted. We've noticed that all the laws that are proposed are just these works that are numbered in this law, so it's been prescribed by automation. I think it's a good thing it's been spotted. This will now be much clearer and more precise. We also accepted the amendment by Olgica Batic that from the moment the indictment was brought into effect, the director was automatically resolved. It's a moment when he can't have any moral responsibility. It would be morally unacceptable for him to do so. As far as the Development Fund Act is concerned, I just want to give an explanation. It is not possible that guarantees from the Development Fund, when guaranteed by the state as a whole by its assets, are issued unless the Law on the Budget for the current year provided the Serbian Parliament as an option in the law itself. The very guarantee of the Development Fund, where the state of Serbia guarantees its entire assets, is only possible if the possibility is given in the Budget Law. It's not against the Constitution. It is understood that if it is not in the budget, then such a guarantee will not be issued. If there is no budget law, they will not be able to issue such guarantees. You know we've adopted that member where we've narrowed down the possibilities for what the Republic can guarantee next year. We didn't foresee this purpose. It might be some years when it's possible, when it's more stable.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6202	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6203	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in this set of laws, we will refer to the proposal for a Law on Public Enterprises and the Proposal for a Law on the Deadening of Monetary Obligations in commercial transactions, because they are certainly the most important in this set. I agree with some MPs' proposals that maybe time should have doubled or at least separated some of these points, given that these two are far the most important. As far as public enterprises are concerned, I think the overall economic system of Serbia and by the number of employees and by the level of income and the overall activity of all public enterprises is convincingly the biggest problem of our economy for several reasons. It's kind of, I say, a black box, a Bermuda triangle, there's a missing asset, baggers disappear, property disappears, and the general way of managing that sector is extremely worrying. I don't agree with that so-called. neoliberal estimates that the state is a bad businessman and that, at any cost, public sector should be privatised. Not every country and a bad businessman. There is experience in developed economies, Western market economies, where public enterprises, although even minority state-owned, where the state has so-called so-called state-owned enterprises. the gold action, they function extremely well and function according to market economy rules, although they are public within the meaning of their laws. This is not the case with us, and I think it is extremely important that in this sector this law and other laws even if they try to impose order for a much more serious reason. Let's say, in the case of NIS, it's one of the key arguments for rapid privatisation that happened in a very strange way, that it's precisely a huge public enterprise, which is extremely irrational, and it's also impossible for it to operate profitablely and we need to privatise it more quickly. I think a similar thing would happen or will happen to public companies that could do positive business with us and do much better than they do now, so the intensity of the promoter, in terms of the Law on Public Enterprises, is good, but there are some concrete solutions to which we have observations. Also, public enterprises in our country are well-manufactured monopolies in the industries in which they operate and work with losses, which is absolutely impossible in the normal economic system. They don't do market business. In some cases, it is also regulated prices. It largely subsidises and the private sector, because public procurement doesn't work very well with us. We have been witnessing over the past 20 years and change that companies operating in the public sector, i.e. public enterprises, are doing extremely well, particularly private. Public enterprises and political projects and social institutions are largely because they employ people in various regions and projects they invest in are usually followed by some political motives. Of course, we know what happens before the elections, from sponsoring various sports events, clubs, etc., whether the public company is positive or negative. As for this concrete proposal that is ahead of us, we would believe that the intensity to implement professionalization, departisation and corporation, which is some basic principles that are apostropheeded here and, of course, to introduce some commercial business. This would, in any case, be positively assessed on our part, if this law were to start to apply in terms of the election of new managers in all public undertakings when this law enters into force. As far as I can tell, it's not going to happen, so somehow this condition freezes. The election provided for by the Law on Public Enterprises will welcome the selection of some new directors and supervisory committees to be elected. I mean, I don't understand whether the boards are going to be elected by their own coordination, and the directors are going to be elected in the next four years. As far as the boards are concerned, there's also a dilemma. The qualifications that are listed as necessary to be a member of the Supervisory Board are questionable, since I do not know if there are adequate numbers of people who will meet such qualifications, but what is most odd is that the fee is re-determined by the Founder. I'm sure there'll be some strange solutions in that direction. As for the director himself, to a large extent, the people who run public enterprises, in general everyone who works in the public sector, are more victims of demagogy and pulsism than they are spoken of in a way that they have huge budgets, run huge enterprises, and that would be the first and most basic criterion of their work, not whether they receive a salary of this size or that size, since their responsibility is enormous. On the other hand, there is always public information in the means of informing whether someone has 100, 200 or 300,000 dinars, and it is not seen that he may have made dozens or hundreds of millions of euros in losses in the meantime. For this reason, the choice of directors should be, first and foremost, guided by his work experience, in terms of the results he has achieved so far. The commission that elects it in this bill is also appointed by the government, so that most of these members will be people who will certainly be representatives of the ruling coalition. I don't believe that a crucial factor will be anything but a political resemblance. It would be good if at least the board that chooses the directors of the matter were depolitized, so, I'm sure some people who have really had a chance and without whether or not they have frozen membership in the political party, which, in fact, as my predecessors have said, means nothing. The discharge of the director again on the proposal of the minister, a plan accompanying the ministry, a plan accompanied by the founder, there is a supervisory board, etc. I don't see why there's a solution in place that the minister can solve directly some director of a public enterprise, especially if it happens in some local self-government. The minister didn't even set it up, so there's no need to solve it. He is directly responsible to those who have appointed him and these people are responsible for his work, so they should resolve him, because there is something called political responsibility. I think we should leave those chosen in the local elections to bear any kind of responsibility. I don't think the minister should interfere with that. We still have a disputed member of 55 who tells us that, if the public enterprise does not operate in accordance with policy, with the government's economic policy guidelines in the field of profit and employment, the finance ministry can abolish the transfer funds to local self-government or the province, etc. Also, I think this is unnecessary, given that a large number of measures are already envisaged where the work of the public undertaking concerned is very closely monitored, and there is no need for the whole city or province to be affected by someone's irresponsible business. I'm sure there are other ways to get rid of it. I'm afraid, perhaps not this one, but some next government could politically abuse a member like this, and for completely irrelevant reasons, suspend the funds provided for by the Budgetary System Act. There are several things in the Law on Public Enterprises that we have serious objections to and we have made some amendments. Generally, if public enterprises in Serbia started to operate in the market, I am sure that many things would be resolved. Corporate is a great solution. I don't see why all citizens wouldn't be able to invest in any action. Also, some revenues can be made based on dividends, etc., as is done everywhere in the world. Many large public enterprises, the world's, are listed on stock exchanges outside the country of origin, and I don't see why we wouldn't be thinking about it in that direction. Generally, you can't invest anywhere but the bank, pension fund, investment funds, etc. are also something that is certain that the investment of these public enterprises would have to be seen. The market is generally the best indicator of whether someone is doing business the right way or not. The price of action, after all, is that it will determine whether someone is doing well or not. So I am sure that, apart from all these supervisory functions performed by the ministry, market indicators would be much better especially if transparency in this case were guaranteed because there are securities commissions of value and a clear regulation of what everything must be, what reports to publish in the case of an open-ended company. As far as the other laws are concerned, the draft law on settlement deadlines for commercial transactions is an administrative measure that will give certain different results. I don't see why it would restrict business between private firms when there is a Law on Bond Relations and in different industries, different deadlines and needs to negotiate, charge, etc. I think at least in the private sector, I think that in public, or state, this might have some effect. People will still find a way to function on the invoices instead of the invoices, etc. There's always some way around these measures. In any case, the liquidity of our economy is more caused by monetary, fiscal policy, low industrial production, the entire economy is over-indebted, subcapitalised, etc. So the problems are far greater than what is the ultimate consequence of all this, which is that payment deadlines, as we have seen in the explanation of over 100 and 200 days, say in the construction industry is the worst case. As far as the other draft laws are concerned, the amendments to the Privatisation Act are an extension of the deadline for exiting companies from restructuring. Restructure is sort of a simulated bankruptcy. It keeps in life more for some social reasons, and it would be far more meaningful to come up with some programs for employees who are in these companies, that they requalified, etc. Because further extension I don't think it's going to have any effect, even if bankruptcy is declared, the question is whether that property can be sold at all. So it's one big question mark, and I'm not sure there's any concrete solution here, other than to get some extra time, by having these companies subsidized again in different ways. As far as changing the Foreign Exchange Act is concerned, it is finally good for Serbia to become part of the world to say, "he's lying" to the community, since I think we are probably the last, or only of the last countries, that electronic business is possible at all because there are no other services that could work. If anything, because of small, medium-sized enterprises, I think it will contribute extremely, so that in this sense we support this proposal and also the proposal for a tax amnesty law. I think that maybe some of them will unearthly get extra deadlines and the question is whether it's the most honest thing for those who have properly settled their tax obligations, but in any case, that's probably better than keeping a large number of businesses blocked. In the debate on amendments, we'll also explain a little bit more in detail. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6204	The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6205	Just one brief note that this might not have been repeated in the next discussions, I saw that it was also an LDP observation, about the possibility that the ministry's resolution could seek an initiative to replace the director of a local public enterprise. That was not our intention, and we will accept the LDP amendment to be specified, and it makes it impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6206	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6207	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this group of laws that are on the agenda today, we don't see any reform steps, and on the contrary, we think that most of them are populist and can only mean a step backwards. So, from the opening statement of Minister Dinkic, we could hear some good wishes, but all this does not stand in these laws, and it is especially a very controversial possibility to apply these promises that, I say, were more like pre-election promises even though the elections were long over. When it comes to, say, the Law on the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, perhaps you can see the good intentions of the legislator of this law to arrange payments primarily by the state to companies, according to economic operators. We don't see anything controversial here. The Democratic Party would support one such law that would oblige the state to comply within the time limit of payment obligations. However, I do not see quite enough reason for the law to be passed when you have already taken advantage of the possibility of setting up your directors, your ministerial assistants, the people who give the order for payment, which is why one such law. Isn't it enough to gather them all together or send a message to pay their dues within the agreed deadline? What would require a law to bind them to that? But if you don't trust those appointed directors, maybe the law is necessary, but at the level of the state-owned businessmen, in any case I agree to one such law, I repeat again, we would vote. However, the following is disputed. You hereby restrict payment deadlines between economic operators. So, between entrepreneurs, companies, regardless of the character of capital. Here you seriously violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that entrepreneurship is free and still said – entrepreneurship can be limited by law to protect people's health, environment and natural resources and for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. I do not see that the health of Serbian citizens is threatened by the fact that economic operators have possibly agreed otherwise. This law is contrary, in my opinion, to the system law, the Law on Liabilities, a member of, say, 516 in which it is said – the customer is obliged to pay the price at the time and place specified by contract. Why would the state interfere with payment deadlines between economic operators? This is what Boris Kidrich would envy. You have called for Directive 11 of 2011, I apologize to Directive No 7 of 2011, even in the opening part you said it was in line with this Directive. I will immediately say that this is not true, i.e. it is false because this directive does not say that the payment deadline provision applies to economic operators but only in case the economic operators have not agreed otherwise. That's a big difference. This also proves the final part of this law, which also has a table on compliance with EU rules, where it is seen that this part of the law is not in line, and I must say, the basic part and the backbone of this law. Therefore, payment deadlines in the EU are limited between economic operators, and they are not affected by their freedom to negotiate. What would it mean to pass one of these laws? This would mean that economic operators under heavy burden, difficult economic situations, under heavy debt burden, would get one obligation they would not be able to comply with. It's like giving a man who can barely walk an obligation to run a Hussein Bolt, and by doing so, you will bring many companies into a very difficult position. You have provided dragon penalties for late payment, and it is almost amazing, and I will read it for the citizens of Serbia and the businessmen, says if the debtor is late with the payment, the trustee has the right to demand a fee without prior warning from the debtor for a delay in failing to meet the monetary obligations of 20,000 dinars on behalf of the penalty for non-depreciation of the monetary obligation within the deadline. This is just amazing. So for a debtor who has a one thousand obligation and a ten million-million-dollar debtor, the fine is 20,000 dinars. What it means is that the trustee invoices the debtor under this law of yours, I don't see what law you found the basis for it and what kind of a decision you could have anticipated. I've seen that you, by amendment of the government, have kind of relativized this provision, so you said that it can, however, and it's extremely inappropriate. Furthermore, it also provides for dragon penalties for businessmen who are late to pay between 100 million and 2 million dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person, i.e. a public sector economic operator that does not meet the monetary obligations set out in this law. So from 10,000 to 500,000 will be punished for the enterprise's violation, from 10,000 to 150 thousand responsible persons. So, you've got dragon penalties, not only for the public sector, but for companies that may owe a small sum, some baker, some shoemaker, some craftsman, a small company, and these are really dragon penalties. I, and the DS parliamentary group, don't mind, let's say once again, putting order into payment when it comes to the state and the private sector, or companies, we don't mind, nor that the state prescribes the obligation of large commercial houses to pay on time, to pay in time. However, this is not achieved by the Law on payment deadlines, but there are anti-monopol laws, which may only be applied, perhaps large trade chains would have to carry out their obligations to the percentage of their participation in the market, i.e. retail or wholesale. I believe that in this part of the law, this law is completely unnecessary, excessive and will cause greater chaos among the businessmen and will cause them great harm, especially to smaller businessmen, with confidence that you had good intentions when it comes to the state and its relationship with the businessmen. The second law regarding the conditions of write-offs, interest and the settlement of the tax debt, this is, you yourself said a newer law on amnesty. As you can see, Mr Nikolic pardoned Jajic, Cvetkovic, etc. Dacic and Vukic 4,000 persons who committed crimes, you decided to pass a law on amnesty, after all. I don't think the businessmen will like this term, they haven't committed any crimes, far from those that have been amnesty, and I don't think one of these laws should be compared to the Amnesty Act. Everyone has the right to their amnesty, and even in the DS and I personally wouldn't mind if you were able to settle your obligations to businessmen who weren't in a difficult previous period, to extend their payment of those obligations and to write them off interest, subject to two conditions. The first is that you made a clear distinction between tax debtors who could, and did not want to pay taxes and taxpayers who are state measures or a difficult economic situation, the difficult situation in the economy, could not pay their tax obligations. Secondly, if you had given the companies, i.e. entrepreneurs who regularly paid their commitments, you would have given their benefits, which is why someone would pay their liabilities regularly, without any benefits. And you yourself said that you had a moral dilemma when you proposed this law, in the sense that there would be taxpayers who regularly paid their liabilities, small entrepreneurs, small shop owners, craftsmen, etc. The last dinar to pay tax obligations, and now you give some people who may have earned a profit, give them the right to pay their liabilities in some time with their interest written off, which is unfair. In that sense, we cannot support this law. They would support it only if it were to refer to economic operators that are state-owned, government measures because of the difficult economic situation, which were prevented from paying their tax obligations. Perhaps one of the most important laws in this set, the Law on Public Enterprises, has perhaps the most shortcomings. I would say that the process of political rounding and freezing the situation with the set faces should be completed, the end of the process of politicising public enterprises initiated by the process of setting up, i.e. the adoption of the NBS Act, and this process is being rounded up in the sense that the directors, the board of directors who will now receive the status of the supervisory board will remain in office, and usually these are your political staffs of this coalition and in that sense, this law is against your election promises of depolitisation, against the interests of ordinary citizens, and you have deceived the citizens and voters who voted for you. So you've set up directors, people on boards, and now you're freezing their functions, saying that one day there's going to be a competition, and that new directors and new members of the Supervisory Board will be elected. They'd say our people don't like donkeys to green grass. 'This provision and this law look like it. But what scares me especially, which you didn't even talk about today, is the small door to the privatisation of public enterprises. Three legal provisions indicate that. First you said that public enterprises for their obligations correspond to their entire assets. You said that public enterprises have their own property and you said that capital in a public enterprise is divided into shares. What does that mean? Public undertakings will receive their property through the adoption of this law and will transfer to them property that has so far been owned by the state. After that, the creditors of these public enterprises under Article 10 of this law, under which public undertakings correspond to their entire assets, will demand to collect their claims. In the good part of public enterprises, key public enterprises dealing with the supply of water, heat energy, the export of garbage, their liabilities, i.e. liabilities are greater than their capital. These public enterprises will on that day become the property of their creditors, banks, companies and all others who have claims against them. Have you thought about it, Mr Dinkic? So it's not an accident. I was wondering why the property of public enterprises would be divided into shares when it's not a company? It will be divided into shares so that it will be easier to divide when those obligations are settled. We can talk a lot about public enterprises. The work of public enterprises, let's say to me, is quite inconceivable that it is in Article 2. Law on public enterprises and the activity of information. Didn't we adopt, Mr Dinkic, a strategy relating to the media by which the state was supposed to leave this area? Have you consulted with the professional associations? And if you have provided for this provision, as a transitional solution for existing public companies dealing with information, you have had in transitional provisions to indicate that this will be until the privatisation of these public enterprises. Speaking of privatisation, I don't think public enterprises should permanently remain under the control of the state, or municipalities, cities and provinces. However, I do not think that this law with three of its members is the basis for privatising these public enterprises. That should be followed by a broad debate, in which everyone would have to say how they feel about the privatisation of the municipal system. We know what experience we have in privatising companies that have been involved in business activities, and we can imagine what might happen to us to privatise public utility companies. I don't know who you're dealing with, have you consulted the unions in public enterprises? You're saying you have the support of the World Bank, as I understand it, I'm not quite sure they've read this bill well. After all, I do not know how this law does not comply with EU rules at all, and it is not even translated into any of the world's languages, as it clearly states in this form of declaration of compliance with EU rules. It even says it wasn't translated into any of the world's languages. So we suggest that you take care of the amendments that have been tabled by the parliamentary groups, both the opposition and the possible position, on all these issues. These laws are done in haste and without real professional analysis, some of these provisions, saying besides perhaps good intentions are very dangerous and can cause far-reaching consequences. As a result, our relationship with most of these laws, except that, of course, the Law on Public Enterprises, we cannot vote, we cannot vote for laws concerning the write-off of interest on tax debt, unless our amendment is accepted, but we can think about it and we will probably vote on a law relating to privatisation, or additions to the law, on the law on tight interest, the Insurance Act and the Foreign Payment Act. All these other laws would have to prove to us and accept some amendments to vote for them. The Democratic Party is not an apriorier against everything your government proposes. However, we are against the laws that go, which bring us back and that will ultimately have far-reaching consequences for the citizens of Serbia, as will the recently adopted Budget Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6208	Thank you. Mr. Atlagic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6209	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6211	Your Honor, the chairman, I believe that article 107 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker made false statements, not only for the Government of the Republic of Serbia but also for the High Representative of the World Bank, so allow me to explain two sentences. It is not true that this is one of the government's pre-election promises and I quote it – that the government has done nothing of pre-election promises. I'll only list four-five things, and that's to deny it. I'll explain. [[President: Please, it's already a replica. Please explain only the breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] You see, it's hard to explain to me where he went wrong. I just told you that he humiliated the dignity of the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia and the government, and now I should explain what lies were made, if you will allow me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6212	No, you pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will now explain to you what I think of that injury, but don't replicate it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6213	Let me tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6214	It's a replica already.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6215	Okay. Anyway, I'm saying that you violated your warning, and you can see that it's a lie both you and the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6216	I do not believe that Article 107 has been broken, because Mr. Vesenovic expressed his political will and his opinion on the law in his presentation. At no point did I realize that he had acted offensively and thus compromised the dignity of the National Assembly. If you feel that your argument is not enough, you may request that in the day of voting vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6217	What about the World Bank High Representative on TV today?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6218	No, I'm just asking you if you're asking me to take a vote on the injury in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6219	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6220	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS Parliament Club will support all eight draft laws in this debate that we are having today. I am pleased to see that this debate is going well today in parliament and I see that, based on what I have heard, an even greater number of draft laws will also support opposition parties. Some parts are conditioned by the adoption of the amendments, but some laws are literally praised by the opposition, such as the draft foreign exchange law, because indeed, this law takes us out of the Stone Age, as one colleague said, related primarily to business in the area of IT technology and others. It's just the beginning, we have so much to do yet, that this is just the beginning, but that's why it's unserious to say that you're going to vote for such a law and say that you haven't passed, that none of the reform laws are proposed here. For example, this law is also a reform in relation to everything that currently exists and what is currently being done in Serbia. I even know this information, but there will be a debate about how much we as a state lose in the field of exports, because, let's say, we haven't had this law before, and someone's been in power for ten years in Serbia and such a law hasn't passed, so he says -- it's not reform. Yes, this is also how reform and important the law and all the businessmen will say that this is a very important law and will support it. The most debate was about the Law on Public Enterprises, and there are some things I want to say. And he's a step forward, so relative to the existing state, not to say that this bill is not a step forward, it's simply incorrect. So, what does he introduce that is significantly different from today’s situation? He introduces the professionalization of management in enterprises that is one of the very important things. Secondly, it introduces a commitment to public enterprises, the public in the work, that is, Article 62. The law. Take a good look at him. So, even the way directors, supervisory boards and everything else are elected, this member and this part of the law, largely enables the public to make sure that a manager or supervisory board of a public undertaking works well, works in the interests of citizens, whether it is a state, public enterprise, republican or local, because it is mandatory for three months to make reports available to the public on the website of the company. The way, also in future management, the change of large, massive boards of directors and the selection of small supervisory committees with clear ingenuity is of course a step forward. How many times have we had a debate here about whether or not a member of the board of directors is a singer of folk music, or I don't know, and that was the debate in this house, whether someone was scurrying, crying, etc. We even talked about it without talking about newspaper texts about it. It is now clear who may be a member of the Supervisory Board, which conditions must be met, in which way is chosen and few bodies. At the republican level of maximum five, at the local level of three members. That's a big difference compared to what we've had so far. And also the selection of directors, I've already said, that this introduces professionalization. When we read what a candidate for a director needs to meet, we read it in Article 22, which conditions to be the director of a public enterprise, above all on a republican level. We will admit when we talk about the billion-euro minus-a-year public-owned enterprises, that to the most extent, these public-owned enterprises are doing so at the republican level. Of course, they make up the few hundred at the local level, but in any case they don't have so much work and so much property that they could make so many minuses like these companies, which is no reason not to have them arranged the same way. It is important to say that what is sought and in what way, it will have to be a complete professional person who is experienced and working. Such are the conditions of the competition and it clearly says so. I don't understand a guy who's appointed a competition committee. It's perfectly logical that the founder appoints a competition commission, whoever sets up a competition for the selection of any executive staff. Imagine if "Idea" set up a competition for the director and the Mercator set up a competition commission for her. Logically, whoever's the founder and who's calling the competition. That's true in the republic. If he is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course the Government of the Republic of Serbia chooses a competition commission, if the founder is a local self-government she chooses the commission. What matters is what he writes, who makes a competition commission, and it is the procedure and the way people are elected, whether it is the Supervisory Board or the Director. Is it ideal? Of course not. Some amendments will also be accepted, but this is a major step forward in relation to the current situation. We'll see, perhaps it will change in the course of the work of this assembly and this call of ours and our government, even better. At this point, do not pass this bill, keep the old one, means that we keep party management in businesses and keep the bulky administrative and expensive boards of directors and that we retain ineffective management of public enterprises. This bill will certainly help make it much better. The transitional and final provisions that no one has spoken of, and they are very important. There is a clear procedure in the next period that may take place from the day the law is published, eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger", no more than four months to begin the whole procedure. If we are talking about acts that need to be passed, then the government will have to pass sublegal acts, and the founders will have to agree on the acts with this bill, they have a deadline of up to three months, it can be shorter and up to 30 days later, all these public enterprises have a deadline to agree on their acts and then start competitions afterwards. Is there anything else that can change and we can imitate this law? I'd say Mr. Dinkic and you here, that there's one more thing to think about. We're talking about public enterprises here. However, we have many institutions, funds and agencies that do not change the business of this law. Now, imagine, let's say the Communist company "Purity" will have three members, and the Centre for Culture in a city will have a board of 15 members who will continue to serve to settle some party personnel at a local level. All of this needs to be changed in the next period and it needs to be done immediately. The remark was on how directors are elected and why this is allowed by local self-government, and I personally don't think that they should be competitive conditions for a candidate for director, at the local level, to have the scales so high as the republican or regional level. I come from one of the largest cities in Serbia, Smedereva. For Smeder, it wouldn't be a problem to put it that way. For Belgrade, it is certainly no problem to set a scale, so I understand Belgrade lawmakers who say something like that. However, I argue that there are environments in Serbia that could very hard to find people who would meet all these conditions that the law provides for, to be directors. There's a middle like that. We are witnessing that Serbia has been the largest brain exporter in Europe for the last 20 years. We are witnessing that young people are leaving Serbia due to a poor economic situation, due to wars, poor political situations. Especially professional people, it's still going on today. That's what we need to stop, and one of the ways is something like this. You will find it difficult to convince someone who meets these conditions, and lives in Belgrade, to compete in Major or Bear to be the director of a public enterprise and to go down to live and work. It will also be hard to find you to meet for all the public enterprises that exist down there, people who just meet all these conditions so they can be directors. I agree with all those who say that Article 22 was supposed to apply to all public enterprises and at a local level. That's my personal opinion. Then we'd be in a situation where we wouldn't be able to pick the directors and repeat the competitions in some environments. We would have had a VD condition, which means, again, the municipality appoints someone as VD director. I'd like the same thing if the law started immediately with the application. He's starting the app right now. That is true, for all those who are VD states, but I will warn and say one thing that is currently happening in Serbia. It is that local self-governments these days are massing in Serbia to schedule sessions to elect directors not to be in VD condition, but to be in this state, to avoid applying and calling competitions under this law. They try to hold you before December 15th, because when the law comes into force, it's free to question this. That's why they're trying to do it now. If we're all in favour of decommissioning public enterprises, if we're all up for something like that, and if we're all up for something like that, let's all appeal to the leadership of our parties, to break up at the bar with that job. We all do that, whether we're the government or the opposition, and we stop it so the law starts to apply at the same time for everyone. If it's not already in the law, it's clearly written, and unfortunately, in my opinion, it's supposed to be in the law. It is important to say, regardless of the objections we have heard and what we have, that this law is a big step forward, primarily because of professionalisation and the public in the work and it will really help public enterprises work much better than they have done so far. All MPs can follow through the public in the work whether it happens or not. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown by electing the directors of large systems, such as Telecom and EPS, that they do not have to be party directors, but professionals. They will have to re-commit after this process and will have to go to the directors' election. I think everyone else should behave that way, because that's what Serbian citizens expect us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6222	Thank you. Mr. Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6223	It's a replica about two things. I can accept the argument that it is not possible for all the conditions for the directors of public enterprises whose founder is local self-government to be transferred to the local level, as exist for the directors of public enterprises whose founder is the Republic, but I cannot accept that it is not possible for the Assembly to pass a law by which they too could not be functioners of political parties. This would not reduce to that extent the number of possible options even at local level to endanger the business of local public enterprises. If it's true to endanger, then our problem is much worse than we think. As for the second appeal, regarding the deadlines, we don't have to appeal to local self-government to do so. Here, it is enough to accept the LDP amendment to repeat the competitions for those companies whose directors have been elected in this interregnum. It's simple, as the ruling majority, you have that power. We have made it very easy for you to do so if you really mean what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6224	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6225	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Business, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, would first refer to the discussion of LSV colleagues, who said that after the state's automation, they do not have to be a bad entrepreneur and that state-owned enterprises do not have to be companies that generate losses and indifference. This shows examples of many developed countries in Western Europe and the world. Of course, at this point we cannot compare with these countries, because their level of development and the percentage of highly educated people in these countries is greater than 25-30, in some countries and 40%, so that our domestic enterprises cannot compare to one Telenor, which is mostly state-owned. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports and supports the adoption of public enterprises laws as part of the public sector reform process in the Republic of Serbia, which includes the process of reforming public administration, reforming public enterprises and reforming public and social funds. The Law on Public Enterprises, which we have on the tide today, definitely brings a lot of newspapers, and what is called the professionalization of public enterprises management in the economic dictionary. This law is modelled by the German model, which works and operates within the social market economy, and this is shown by that member who defines and what is very important for our party, that the employee must also be a member of the Supervisory Board and that in this way those three pillars of the participatory management model are realised, which are the right of employees to inform, to consult and decide. Thus, we will get a model that will also pass on certain powers to employees in the company, but also responsibility for the work, productivity and efficiency of these same companies. So far, public enterprises have been indivisible and financial indiscipline generators. I would also like to appeal to the ministry, but also to the future management of public enterprises, to see what is called the European Administrative Framework. I will remind you that in the United States since 1990, until today, every administration has adopted an act that has been dealing with just improving the performance of public administration management and state-controlled enterprises. It was also the time of Clinton's administration, during Bush's administration, and today, during Obama's administration. I consider the Law on Public Enterprises to be just one of the system laws that I hope will adopt in this package. I think he's very attached to the Payment Timelimits Act and that through that provision of that law, the management of public enterprises is required to report on the monthly level to the Ministry of Finance on the outstanding liabilities, that in full capacity, the problem of liquidity will be solved and the debt problem solved when it comes to public enterprises. I would also like to stress that it is very important to co-operate with the Serbian Parliaments, but also with the management of public enterprises with the DRI and that in this set of laws and in the coming period it will be of great importance to the Public Procurement Act, which we hope to bring in during December and through whose application our administration, our state and our businesses can save huge money. This law adopts what the modern management model throughout the world dictates, which is corporateisation, transparency of work and transparency of reporting. The law defines the process of assessing the performance of the management of public enterprises. I will remind you that the president of our party, Mr Ljajic, also spoke throughout the previous years about the provisions that have now been contained in this law. We are now in Article 39. The provision speaks of the directors of public enterprises and public enterprises management if they do not meet the plan defined by the operational and strategic plan, they can be replaced. So, if there are no results, some other people will have to come, who will work at a better capacity and make these companies more efficient, more efficient and productive. What is very important is that public enterprises bring ethical codes and corporate governance codes and risk management codes in the coming period to make it more efficient and profitable and have results on the market. What has not been mentioned so far, and which will contribute greatly to the efficiency of the public sector, especially public enterprises, is that the central register of employees in public enterprises will be completed by June of next year. What efficiency and results of public enterprises can we talk about, when we don't know at this point how many people work together in these public enterprises, what are those demographic structures, what age, what are qualifications? So how do we apply modern human management models, human resources management in these organisations and be competitive with these public enterprises on the market? This law also defines the use of the Institute of Public Competition, which involves planning human resources in organisations, designing jobs, analysis of work, development, training, education, one modern model of award and motivation in all organisations. What it wants to be fulfilled by implementing this law is to reach the level of functioning of private sector enterprises, which are focused on results and which are focused on profit, not on liquidity and other negative aspects defined by the work of these enterprises in the previous period. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown by electing the directors of large systems, such as Telecom and EPS, that they do not have to be party directors, but professionals. They will have to re-commit after this process and will have to go to the directors' election. I think everyone else should behave that way, because that's what Serbian citizens expect us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6226	Thank you. Mr. Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6227	It's a replica about two things. I can accept the argument that it is not possible for all the conditions for the directors of public enterprises whose founder is local self-government to be transferred to the local level, as exist for the directors of public enterprises whose founder is the Republic, but I cannot accept that it is not possible for the Assembly to pass a law by which they too could not be functioners of political parties. This would not reduce to that extent the number of possible options even at local level to endanger the business of local public enterprises. If it's true to endanger, then our problem is much worse than we think. As for the second appeal, regarding the deadlines, we don't have to appeal to local self-government to do so. Here, it is enough to accept the LDP amendment to repeat the competitions for those companies whose directors have been elected in this interregnum. It's simple, as the ruling majority, you have that power. We have made it very easy for you to do so if you really mean what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6228	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6229	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Business, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, would first refer to the discussion of LSV colleagues, who said that after the state's automation, they do not have to be a bad entrepreneur and that state-owned enterprises do not have to be companies that generate losses and indifference. This shows examples of many developed countries in Western Europe and the world. Of course, at this point we cannot compare with these countries, because their level of development and the percentage of highly educated people in these countries is greater than 25-30, in some countries and 40%, so that our domestic enterprises cannot compare to one Telenor, which is mostly state-owned. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports and supports the adoption of public enterprises laws as part of the public sector reform process in the Republic of Serbia, which includes the process of reforming public administration, reforming public enterprises and reforming public and social funds. The Law on Public Enterprises, which we have on the tide today, definitely brings a lot of newspapers, and what is called the professionalization of public enterprises management in the economic dictionary. This law is modelled by the German model, which works and operates within the social market economy, and this is shown by that member who defines and what is very important for our party, that the employee must also be a member of the Supervisory Board and that in this way those three pillars of the participatory management model are realised, which are the right of employees to inform, to consult and decide. Thus, we will get a model that will also pass on certain powers to employees in the company, but also responsibility for the work, productivity and efficiency of these same companies. So far, public enterprises have been indivisible and financial indiscipline generators. I would also like to appeal to the ministry, but also to the future management of public enterprises, to see what is called the European Administrative Framework. I will remind you that in the United States since 1990, until today, every administration has adopted an act that has been dealing with just improving the performance of public administration management and state-controlled enterprises. It was also the time of Clinton's administration, during Bush's administration, and today, during Obama's administration. I consider the Law on Public Enterprises to be just one of the system laws that I hope will adopt in this package. I think he's very attached to the Payment Timelimits Act and that through that provision of that law, the management of public enterprises is required to report on the monthly level to the Ministry of Finance on the outstanding liabilities, that in full capacity, the problem of liquidity will be solved and the debt problem solved when it comes to public enterprises. I would also like to stress that it is very important to co-operate with the Serbian Parliaments, but also with the management of public enterprises with the DRI and that in this set of laws and in the coming period it will be of great importance to the Public Procurement Act, which we hope to bring in during December and through whose application our administration, our state and our businesses can save huge money. This law adopts what the modern management model throughout the world dictates, which is corporateisation, transparency of work and transparency of reporting. The law defines the process of assessing the performance of the management of public enterprises. I will remind you that the president of our party, Mr Ljajic, also spoke throughout the previous years about the provisions that have now been contained in this law. We are now in Article 39. The provision speaks of the directors of public enterprises and public enterprises management if they do not meet the plan defined by the operational and strategic plan, they can be replaced. So, if there are no results, some other people will have to come, who will work at a better capacity and make these companies more efficient, more efficient and productive. What is very important is that public enterprises bring ethical codes and corporate governance codes and risk management codes in the coming period to make it more efficient and profitable and have results on the market. What has not been mentioned so far, and which will contribute greatly to the efficiency of the public sector, especially public enterprises, is that the central register of employees in public enterprises will be completed by June of next year. What efficiency and results of public enterprises can we talk about, when we don't know at this point how many people work together in these public enterprises, what are those demographic structures, what age, what are qualifications? So how do we apply modern human management models, human resources management in these organisations and be competitive with these public enterprises on the market? This law also defines the use of the Institute of Public Competition, which involves planning human resources in organisations, designing jobs, analysis of work, development, training, education, one modern model of award and motivation in all organisations. What it wants to be fulfilled by implementing this law is to reach the level of functioning of private sector enterprises, which are focused on results and which are focused on profit, not on liquidity and other negative aspects defined by the work of these enterprises in the previous period. The Commission for Selection of Management cannot find MPs, committees or appointed persons in the authorities of the state administration. I think it's one of the papers, and I think it's going to do a lot of positive effects on the application of this law. I will also talk about a difficult problem the Serbian state's economy has, which is subsidising enterprises in restructuring. They're public enterprises. Through a law that defined the completion of the restructuring process by June 2014, it has been defined that those companies that can function on the market, will continue to work, but will not receive subsidies, and those who cannot do so will not be able to do so and will no longer receive subsidies, so that they will not actually be able to live anymore. I appeal to the ministry to define a clear strategic plan as early as next year – what to do with people who, when the restructuring is completed, will lose their jobs, to create social programmes, to create requalification programmes and qualifications, who will be in line with labour market needs. There are various examples of how it can be done. I'm going to give you an example of Poland and Austria, where labour funds have been established, where as many as 75% of the people who have overqualified, qualified in these labour funds have found jobs, and even 5% of these people have started their own business. In this context, it is also very important that what will bring about a new education strategy, which is accreditation of training and non-formal education programmes, where our employees and unemployed are very uncompetitive. I'll remind you that 88% of the competitiveness of the workforce in the United States has this very competitive advantage because it has a high level and high skill capacity, because they apply the philosophy of lifelong learning and training. What is also important is to form a training centre at the level of public administration, which will precisely aim at education and training in all possible models of informal and non-institutional education for employees and that will apply life-long learning and training models. When it comes to the Tax Amnesty Act, what the SDPS wants to stress is that in this way, since small and medium-sized enterprises and the sector owe about 500 billion dinars, that in this way they will be given, which is two years, and that if they pay in time their commitments, they will be released from that debt, and what is most important is that they will potentially keep jobs. By relaxing this sector over the next few years, we have the possibility that with this fiscal consolidation, which is implemented and everything else, through this whole series of laws... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... these entrepreneurs and small businessmen can hire new people. Therefore, SDPS will always support programmes that are focused on retaining existing and opening new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6230	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6231	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will deal with the draft law on public enterprises and the Law on the Development Fund. As far as the proposal for a law on public enterprises is concerned, I think my fellow MP, Mirko Chikiriz, has already said a lot. I would not be concerned with whether this law will remove policy from human resources when leaving officials in any public enterprise, because we all know well how this works in our country, regardless of the legal texts that remain very and rarely only a letter on paper. I am pleased that the finance minister has indirectly admitted to respecting and esteeming the opposition that can be constructive. I think you'll agree with me. I decided to approach this bill on public enterprises that way, when I wrote the amendments. As this law suggests that persons convicted of crimes against business and legal traffic cannot be directors, it is natural to accept an amendment to extend such a ban to those who are convicted of corruption and abuse of their official position. I've suggested an amendment like this so corruptists can't be directors, but we'll see if they'll be accepted. Also, through the amendments I've made, I've explained to the finance minister the difference between criminal and pre-criminal proceedings, I've given him explanations about the presumption of innocence, I've distinguished what a court notice is, what a conditional conviction, etc. And I hope that the proposed amendments will indeed be adopted. As far as the draft law on the Development Fund is concerned, as the development fund itself says, is an institution whose primary goal is to develop the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that the Republic of Serbia is a fully undeveloped state. I think everyone will agree with me, or at least not sufficiently developed. Any statement made here by any minister can testify to that. It is completely unclear and why the legislator wants to delete from the existing law a provision under which the Development Fund, among other things, has a goal that is to develop infrastructure. I will remind you that the Development Fund should allocate funds to individual entities in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. It provides monetary incentives, but according to criteria defined as the objectives of the Fund. It is unacceptable that such a provision of the law, which is a sort of criterion when deciding which means to be given, is now deleted, because it is clear to everyone that there is no development of Serbia without the development of its infrastructure, but the proposal to now declare this objective of the Development Fund insignificant is completely trivial against some other provisions of this bill. Namely, in Articles 3 and 6. The constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia is collapsing, as these members are being directly attacked by the principle of the functioning of each civilised state. I don't know where in a civilized world the state has to establish financial obligations for its citizens without Parliament passing. This is precisely what the bill is doing, because the proposer has designed that the guarantees issued by the Development Fund are guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you that no guarantee that Serbia has issued has happened without first discussing this parliament. A law like this can't allow a violation of such a principle. Any commitment burdening the budget, which in this sense means in any obligation burdening citizens of the Republic of Serbia, must be decided by parliament. What is done by this very law, which is to establish one ultimate automation. For any claim granted by the Development Fund's Management Board, the Republic of Serbia will automatically guarantee it. It seems to me that it is a circumvention of the Constitution, because every financial obligation of the Republic of Serbia must be voted by parliament and cannot by the board of directors of any fund, nor by the Development Fund, impose the obligations of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, it seems to me, the constitutional order is being trampled, and the flagrant budget is being bypassed, because what is not approved by the Fund, now the Fund will be able to take on by issuing guarantees guaranteed by the state by automation. It is the gazing of the Constitution, and it seems to me that before submitting such a proposal, you should consider perhaps withdrawing this bill from the procedure, because I am not sure how the Constitutional Court would assess the constitutionality of a law like this. I need to remind you of another provision. Namely, the Law on Public Debt and that in its Article 16 is explicitly prescribed that the Republic of Serbia can issue a guarantee only in the form of the law, which means that parliament votes on it. Can you just warn the People's Messengers, because I can't hear myself anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6232	I ask the People's Messengers to be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6233	So, according to the Public Debt Act, in its Article 16, it is explicitly prescribed that the Republic of Serbia can issue a guarantee only in the form of the law, which means that parliament votes on it. So how do you think the Republic of Serbia is now guaranteeing someone's loans and only by decision of the Development Fund Management Board? When we have such an explicit provision, and we have it, the Law on Public Debt, how is it even possible that such a bill has passed and has been adopted by the Legislative Committee? This bill doesn't just defy the Constitution. He defies other laws. I don't know if the members of the Legislative Committee have been well and carefully reading this bill. I also hope that those amendments submitted by the SPO and DHSS MPs will be supported and respected on the draft development fund law, because I think there is a basis for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6234	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6235	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, public enterprises are set up to carry out their work in the area of public interest. Therefore, public companies should work in the public interest, for example, in the area of electricity supply, or in postal traffic, or in the area of municipal services, or in telecommunications, in various other areas. Their goal is, above all, to provide effective, quality and cheapest service to Serbian citizens. It's a business of public enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, the URS strongly advocates professionalisation, departementisation, depolitisation and increased responsibility in public enterprises. We believe that this process needs to be brought to an end. At this point, the law we have ahead of us is a big step in that direction. We are all aware that this is not an ideal law, as well as a number of other laws, but it is a step in the right direction. Why is the URS in favour of deparation and depolitisation in public enterprises? Because it is contrary to what is the purpose of public enterprises, in many public enterprises, the situation is not so. Is it a public interest in hiring party personnel whether it is a public interest to hire relatives, whether public interest is an enormously high salary in a public enterprise of a director, whether public interest is contrary to the interests of citizens, and whether public interest is ultimately a blatant attitude towards citizens to whom a particular service should be provided? We firmly hold that it is not, but unfortunately, a large number of citizens in Serbia are facing exactly this. Not only that, but Serbia's citizens, and often their political representatives can't get their hands on the exact data -- what are public enterprises, what are the incomes in them, what is their business? That's what hurts Serbia and that's why this law has to be passed right now. Unfortunately, so far, it has not been possible, and it has been necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the U.R.S. still in favor of full detachment? Because we have had bad experience in this area ourselves, because we ourselves have had enough of those who, on our behalf, in my name, have managed public enterprises. I want to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that I am not behind such management. I know for a fact that no high-ranking party of the URS stands behind such management. Everyone who deals with politics knows that at various levels, in various party organizations, there are different people and that it is always possible for such things to happen. We therefore strongly advocate that this is no longer possible, that it is no longer possible to abuse or defend the party behind any of its interests in the public interest. That's the end of it. Besides this, I am fully prepared to accept different attitudes, which say that not everyone involved in politics has to be someone who will work against public interest. I think so, too. That's why I want to compromise with some of the attitudes that have been expressed here today, which is that someone who is a public official of apriors will work against public interest. I think it's a dangerous thesis that puts us who deal with our best intentions and in general interest in politics, puts us in a position to be seen by citizens as someone who works for themselves. It is the thesis that exists in Serbia – all politicians are the same, all work for themselves, no politician works in the interests of citizens etc. I think it's a dangerous thesis that, at the very end of the line, the democratic order and the democratic system puts questions and offers, I don't know what alternative. I don't even know what alternative in the democratic system is possible? But what does the essence of democracy do? Procedures and rules. Therefore, this law introduces clear procedures, rules and controls, so that it is not possible for anyone to abuse their position. That's what I think is the greatest quality of this law. Nevertheless, as we have pointed out several times, the URS will remain in the position that no party official can run for director of a public enterprise, either in the republic or in the local one. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the benefits of this law? We've talked a lot about them, and I'm just going to list them for a little while, I think that's already said. First of all, the state is completely withdrawing from the management of public enterprises. No more boards of directors. There aren't any of those famous boards of directors where the party staffs were stationed. The Supervisory Boards will be a mechanism through which the state will control the business of public enterprises. I think that's necessary. I think the founder must be held accountable and must exercise control over those who work in a public enterprise. So, the supervisory boards will be state control, so as not to so far have a situation if the state itself doesn't know what's going on in some public enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, you have witnessed how many times we as MPs have been exposed to criticism from the public. It's all about the MPs. We know what our menu is, what our menu is, what our salaries are, what our travel expenses are. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is a home that is completely exposed to the eyes of the public, because we are representatives of the citizens. That's very good. But it's inadmissible that we don't know what the salary of some public firm official is. I was amazed when I was seeing salaries that were five times as much as ministers, from our own, from everyone else, and we didn't know exactly whether or not, we couldn't actually check anywhere, usually the media came up with this information magically. It can't be like that anymore. The Supervisory Boards are the ones through which the state will control the business of public enterprises and everything that happens there. The Supervisory Boards will not be party committees, they will be state control, but expert control of the state, because there are clear criteria for who will be able to be a member of the Supervisory Board. It will have to be professional people, experienced people, qualified people, responsible people. An additional control mechanism is introduced, which is one member of the Supervisory Board who will be a fully independent expert and, of course, one member of the Supervisory Board who is employed in a public enterprise. The directors will be elected through the competition, both at the local and the republic. The competitions will be public. Every citizen will be able to know what conditions are and will no longer happen that completely unskilled and unprofessional people are run by some public enterprises. The public in the work, as I said, is a very important mechanism of protection. The public in civil society has to control everything and it's this system that makes it impossible, that something is inaccessible to the public's eyes. The director's discharge mechanisms will be able to be resolved if they misrepresent their function or fail to perform their post in favour of all Serbian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, professionalization, responsibility, control, public work, not personal interest, that's what the URS stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6236	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6237	I'm checking in on the replica. Just a minute to clear up. Maybe you didn't understand if you were in some way replicating what the LDP was talking about when it came to your assumption that someone said or that we brought... (Marian Risticevic, from the post: On what basis. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6238	Wrong interpretation of the exhibit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6239	... that a public official is working against interest, that politicians are working against public interest. We didn't say that. We think there's another problem here, and it's called conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest or excessive concentration of power, and it's problematic when someone who performs a public function or is a party official simultaneously applies or is elected director of a public enterprise. That's the problem. It is not our assumption that anyone who deals with politics or is partyly engaged must take care of his or her party interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6240	Thank you. The word is Mrs Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6241	I don't want to upset you, because I agree with you in a lot of ways. I didn't mention in any way either of you or your MP group, nor did I just have you in mind. I was talking about a principled position where I was saying that we wanted to avoid this cliché that people who deal with politics are acting against the public interest. That didn't apply to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6242	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6243	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate shows that it demonstrates continuity over the government towards the Serbian Parliament. Eight laws, some of which are systematically considered in a single search, are under emergency procedure, and many of these laws without public debate. What we had four years ago obviously continues with this new government. We LDPs are unhappy with that. We are dissatisfied because the parliamentary group has only 16 minutes to discuss eight laws, and that comes two minutes. We are not allowed to state our position on some of the most important laws. I'm going to have to limit myself to the Public Business Act now. For LDP, the draft law on public enterprises is the most obvious evidence of the duality of the current ruling coalition at the republican level, because this law should legalise the party state, which is contrary to what we heard in the pre-election campaign from parties from the ruling coalition. Instead of a law that should speed up transition, we get a law that feuds, by clear criteria, a party state. The basic message of this law is that the will of Vukic, Dacic, Dinkic depends on the function of every man who wakes up tomorrow and goes to work in a public company. Their willingness to serve the interests of the parties, not the public interest, depends on their role in the public enterprise. Many Members of the ruling coalition today have said that this law is a good law in terms of what will lead to the department. If the provisions of this law are read, that's not true. According to the Fiscal Council in Serbia, there are around 700 public enterprises. The 50 public enterprises are founded by the Republic of Serbia. Only for these 50 public enterprises, Article 22, provide for clear criteria for the selection of company directors. One of these criteria says a political party official can be elected for the company's director if he freezes his post. For 650 companies, whose founder is local self-government, there is absolutely no such criterion, which means 650 directors of local companies can be party officials. Is that a department? Is the departmentalisation, if of the 2,200 members of the Supervisory Board, how much should be appointed under the proposal of this law, five members of the Supervisory Board in 50 public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic, three members of the Supervisory Board, whose founder is local self-government, have the criteria for not being members of the political party? All other board members can be members of political parties, which is not a problem, but can also be party officials. The Liberal Democratic Party has tabled an amendment requesting that officials, or committees, MPs, persons appointed to the authorities of the state administration, the authorities of the AP, local self-government cannot be members of the supervisory boards. Let's try to at least that way, as much as we do, do that department. We're coming up with a simple mathematical model. Of the 2,200 board members, only 50 of them should not be members of political parties, and of the 700 directors of public enterprises at the state and local level each of them can also be a member of the political party and party official. Is that a department or is that what I was talking about at the beginning throwing out what you were talking about? When we're in the middle of plowing with you, we're plowing with you like the parties of the ruling coalition. We really don't care if there's a will in the ruling coalition or not. If there is no will, we must clearly hear from which party it depends whether a departmentalisation is to be carried out in Serbia or not, or whether a departmentalisation should be carried out in Serbia. Also, when we talk about the Director's responsibility, we talked about it today. Mr. Andric said that there is a member of the law that prescribes that the director of a public enterprise can be removed, as we have called it, because of a verbal delinquent, because of making a false or incomplete statement. It is absolutely against every democratic order that exists here in Serbia. In addition to these amendments that we've already talked about, we've given some of us some very important amendments. One of the amendments speaks of public enterprises using subsidies or any other type of budgetary assistance, such as guarantees. The public undertaking must provide a clear programme of spending these budget subsidies and a long-term plan that will lead to it not using this budget assistance. We have given an amendment that says that public enterprises do not have competition on the market in the basic activity for which they are established, that they cannot be advertised on a commercial basis. I think it's really unnecessary for them to advertise like that. One amendment that I think is also important, and we have seen that most likely SNS MPs will support it, which is our amendment to have competitions for directors in all public enterprises held until 31 March 2013, that we do not have what Mr. Shormaz was saying now that we have an appointment of municipalities where directors are named by a very fast principle, to avoid that v.d. status. We've also asked for a very important amendment, and it's about selecting a director of a public enterprise. As much as it's been said here that we want the best to win the competitions to elect a director of a public enterprise, that law does not allow. The proposal for this law states that the Commission sets out the ranking of candidates registered as director, to submit three proposals, and that the founder, or one who has the right to appoint a director, appoints someone as director. We in the LDP think that the best in the competition should be confirmed, because this concludes that for any party official it is not important that the best in the competition, but to be among the first three, then we are sure that he will be elected director of the public enterprise. These are just some amendments. We've given a huge number of amendments. We tried to change this law, although the frameworks we were given were extremely narrow. The LDP cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6244	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6245	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Chairman, injured member 107. Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker, as a colleague from the previous convocation, and from this one I appreciate very much, even as a countryman, because we come from the same ends. However, I believe that in the heat of speech he said one thing that is false. I think he's a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure and that you should have pointed out that untrueness, which is that Serbian citizens in public enterprises should be in fear of Alexander Vukic. No, that's not true. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they are pensioners, employees, anywhere to work or, unfortunately, there are many who do not work, do not need to wake up or live in fear of Alexander Vukic. Those who need to be in fear of Alexander Vukic and who are in fear are all those who have grown into crime and corruption, and of those who are the most powerful, however powerful, no matter how rich they are, no matter how much the media has controlled, you and those who have narrowed down to crime and corruption, they should take care and live in fear of Alexander Vukic, not employees in public enterprises. For the next time, please suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6246	I'm sorry, if that's what happened, I didn't realize it, and I probably didn't hear it right. I really apologize to everyone, I should have warned you, I admit it. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6247	I want to say that I have looked at all the amendments of your parliamentary group and that you have made a lot of good and useful suggestions. One good part of the amendment will be accepted as a government, including that first amendment you spoke of, which explicitly prohibits the abuse of public enterprises for political purposes, the way you suggested it. It is useful this thing that you said, that all public enterprises that receive subsidies from the state or seek guarantees must explain how long they will use subsidies, when they stop using them, how they will reduce losses, etc. So, if they weren't just getting subsidies, they'd say, in beautiful eyes, but they had to explain their business well. It's a very useful amendment and we'll be happy to accept it as well. In order to remove this one dilemma, which is purely legal and rhetorical, we will also accept that amendment when you say someone can be replaced because of an incomplete or false statement. It wasn't about verbal statements in public, it was about giving financial false statements. That's what you mean when you make a statement, but since that's incorrectly said, so there's no confusion, we'll take it out. It was meant for financial reports, not public statements. Also, what is the problem and what we will not accept, and I will explain to you why, we will insist, however, that the resolution ministers are still responsible for selecting the best of the three candidates proposed, for the simple reason why I do not want neither ministers nor people at the municipal level to defend the decisions of the commission. Let them personally take responsibility for someone who will do some responsible work, because a competition commission, and you can see that in the case of even private firms, can be wrong. Realistically, competition commissions aren't even sinless. The competition is a big promotion, but let's not have the illusion that the people who are on the competition committee are thus sinless. By the way, we have accepted this amendment that assembly committees with a two-thirds majority name one permanent member of the commission. So, one large number of your amendments will be accepted, because they are truly well-intentioned and I think they fit into the concept that we wanted to propose, but we don't accept this because we think we need to strengthen the personal responsibility of the people who work, whether in the Republic, the province or the locale, to appoint a director who's from their portfolio. As far as advertising is concerned, I don't think it's exactly a formulated proposal. I know what you're trying to say, and it's meant to be under that first amendment that I've already mentioned, that public enterprises should not be used in any campaign or abuse. However, let public companies provide and publish various information. Here, for example, "Luthria" has to publish in the paper what's going on, who's won the winnings, when the draws and the various technical things are. So it's not advertising for commercial purposes, as it's interpreted. It is not simply that amendment to formulate it precisely, even though your intention was in line with what I support. In any case, as the debate is coming to an end today, we are very pleased in the government that there have been no fundamental objections to economic laws. We expected the biggest controversy on the Law on Public Enterprises, and we will now be ready to accept the most amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, no matter who gave them, if they are useful and if they improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6248	Thank you. Given that it is 18.00 hours, I ask you to hear more Mr. Shormaz and Mr. Hajdarevic for the replica, and then let's finish today's work. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6249	Since I was directly mentioned, to be clear immediately, I did not speak at all in detail, but in principle I did not mention that any amendment would be adopted. That's what the minister has right to say, and he just said it. We can talk about whether an amendment is good or not, whether it should be adopted or not, but I haven't said at any time, as Mr. Hajdarevic said, that some LDP amendment would be adopted. Minister, Government, Parliament clubs, we agree, we'll talk about it, but when the voting day comes, then you'll know which amendments we'll vote for, which ones we don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6250	Thank you. Mr. Hajdarevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6251	Mr. Dinkic, we can take some of the reasons for some of our amendments, but when we talk about public enterprises and their advertising, we said that they cannot advertise on a commercial basis, in the sense that they are propagating their product if they are monopolies. We can do, if you agree, and some kind of amendment to this amendment of ours, to make it more clear, that is, that what we wanted to say is part of this law. Also, if you're asking the minister to take responsibility for selecting the director of a public enterprise, what we're looking for is for him to explain to us, not to us, but to the public, it to be publicly published on the Ministry's website, why he chose a candidate who is not number one, but for example. candidate number three. What is the intensity of this law is that the commission that makes proposals for the appointment of directors and ministries, or founder who chooses the director, is their decision final. There is no right to appeal, which is simply impossible, because there is some kind of appeal for any court decision in Serbia. By proposing this law to the Commission's decisions, i.e. the ministry, local self-government authorities do not have the right to appeal. In the end, I just want to repeat what I said about Mr. Babic's first violation of the Rules of Procedure. The basic message of this law, as we see from the LDP, is that the function of every man in a public enterprise, who wakes up tomorrow, depends on the will of Dinkic, Dacic and Vukic, in a political sense, because there is still the party state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6252	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6253	I don't want to talk politics. I don't want to talk about politics. I don't want to talk So, in the end, there's no concern, and we'll accept your amendment that on the website of whoever chooses the director has to announce who is elected and who were the candidates who entered the most important choice. It's perfectly logical to explain if there's a change of order. Secondly, by accepting the amendment that the opposition has essentially one independent member of the commission and by putting all of this on the website, we get the public in the work and thus significantly improves this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-03-0.u6254	Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you, everyone.
