ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2559	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 145 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 157 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informing the MPs that the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be held today at 12.30 p.m., or shortly after the vote at the III Hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dijana Vukomanovic, Susana Spasojevic, Vesna Stepic and Ljubica Vasic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. The first point – Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – no one, with abstention – two, voted 29 out of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Articles 7, 32 and 33 submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. I also remind you that MP Marijan Risticevic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 5. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 out of the 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted 22 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The second point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and REFERENCES TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW After the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 26 abstentions – there is no vote, 26 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. A group of 13 MPs from the United Regions of Serbia -- Mladjan Dinkic, written on September 18th 2012, withdrew an amendment proposing that members of 45a and 45b be added after article 45b. National MP Marijan Risticevic, written on September 22nd, withdrew the amendment to Article 26. I remind you that an integral part of the draft law has become the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, which are added by members of the 45th and 45b and Article 50. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – 11 abstentions – 153 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 189 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 50 has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, which found that the law comes into force earlier than the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 out of the 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 27 abstentions – no, 25 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Civilian Income Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 17 abstentions – no, 35 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one abstention – has voted 188 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 189 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 25 abstentions – no, 28 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF ACCUSES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 20 abstentions – there is no vote, 34 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. Before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment submitted by the Government to Article 34. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Dusica Morčević. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 176 out of 189 MPs for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 18th amendment together. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 189 of the 189 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 179 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 34. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on 1 October 2012. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – eight abstentions - no, 52 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 20 abstentions - no, 39 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS ON DUVAN After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, and since the amendment to Article 4 submitted by the Government has become an integral part of the Bill proposal and the only amendment submitted by MP Marijan Rističević to Article 3. The draft law, the MP, by written letter, withdrew on 22 September 2012, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. Before we move to a decision on the bill in general, the National Assembly must decide on the early entry into force of the law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 15 abstentions – no, 44 of the 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. We're moving on to a decision on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 19, abstentions – there is no, no 38 of the total 192 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Republic of Republics Administrative Taxes Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 58 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – 15 abstentions - no, 38 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FISCAL KASA LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscal cash registers, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 14, the abstentions - no, there was no vote of 43 out of the 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for nine, and 184 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 170 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the total 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscal cash registers, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – 15 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 43 of the total 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fiscal registers. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FINISHING OF LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 15 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 43 out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment: to the members of the 3rd and 13th members of the Government who have submitted together with the 3rd Members of the People's Parliament Vladimir Ilic, Vesna Kovac, Slavica Savilić, Ivan Jokovic, Snezana Stojanović Plasic, Predrag Markovic, Sasa Milenić, Jelena Travar Miljević, Branislav Jovanovic, Nikola Jovanovic, Jožef Shandor, Ana Novković and Nenad Kitanovic. I also remind you that MP Marijan Risticevic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 9. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 177 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Milan Lapčić. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 192 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Stojcic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the day of publication. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – 13 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 45 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 16, the abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 45 of the total 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the financing of local self-government. We move to the 9th point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON TURISM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no vote, 40 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Donka Banovic and MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – 14 abstentions – there is no vote, not 41 of the 189 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. Point 10 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Privatisation Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's Proposal in principle, and since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has rejected the single amendment, MP Nedj Jovanovic, with a correction, which is added in front of Article 1, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. Before that, I ask that the National Assembly declare whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – 13 abstentions – there is no vote, 51 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Privatisation Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – 12, abstentions – one, 44 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Privatisation. 11th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Obligation Security in COOPERATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 14 abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 43 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Obligation Insurance Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 12 abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 43 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic. 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of ionising Airs and Nuclear Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear security, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – 12 abstentions – one, 45 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that meeting part of the bill has become an amendment submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment to Art. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The committee responsible and the government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Ruzica Igic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The committee responsible and the government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 out of the 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 7. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 62 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 8. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 130, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 61 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Article 10. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -132, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 58 out of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 56 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the protection of ionic radiation and nuclear safety, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, against – three, abstention – one, did not vote 53 out of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear security. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Protection of the Environment. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since the only amendment to Article 2 is The bill submitted by MP Ivan Karic, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as incomplete, will be rejected by the National Assembly in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. Before we move to a decision on the bill in general, the National Assembly must decide on the early entry into force of the Law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 10 abstentions – no, 53 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 11, abstention – one, did not vote 48 of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the termination of the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on chemicals. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Chemical Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 10 abstentions – no, 50 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become: an amendment with a correction to Article 2 submitted jointly by the MPs Donka Banović, Ruzica Igic and Milica Vojić Markovic; an amendment to the addition of a new member of the 3a, who were jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Nenad Popović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović; an amendment with a correction to Article 15 that was submitted jointly by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović and the amendment of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment for the addition of new members of 15a and 15b. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, tabled an amendment with a correction to Article 15. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 60 out of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – 10 abstentions – no, 49 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law amending the Chemical Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 51 of the total 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Chemical Act. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Water Law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Water Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – seven abstentions – no, 49 of the total 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 183 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending the Water Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – 13 abstentions – no, 45 out of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Water Act. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the forest laws After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a law amending the Law on the Forests, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 against – six abstentions – no, 52 out of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no, 183 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 184 of the total 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – there are no, abstentions – no, 182 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – there are no, abstentions – no, 180 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for a law amending the Law on the Forests, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 10 abstentions – no, 49 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Forests. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on stoning since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on cattle farming, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 48 of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on cattle farming, in general. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the VINE LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 submitted by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. Since he was the only one to submit an amendment to this bill, I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Wine Act as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, v – eight, abstention – one, did not vote 41 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Wine Act, in general. We move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on VETERINARY I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 against – 11 abstentions – no, 42 of the 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act as a whole. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT TEXT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, v – 10 abstentions – no, 40 of the 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, in general. We move to the 21st point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Air Traffic I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the Law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the bill amending the Air Traffic Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by 43 MPs from a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Air Traffic Act. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Public Roads After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle, and under the Law proposal no amendments have been submitted, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 14, the abstentions – there is no, no 38 of the 187 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SURVEILLANCES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 11, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote of 42 out of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – six abstentions – there are no, 167 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – five, abstentions – no, 175 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – five abstentions – there is no vote, 170 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one abstention – there is no, 174 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – 12 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 41 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Emergency Law. We move to the 24th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENERGETICS ENDS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 11 abstentions – no, 40 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal System. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 11, the abstentions – no, 46 of the 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Energy Act. We move to the 25th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012. AGO BEFORE we move on to a decision on the amendment law and amendments to the 2012 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 33, abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on the amendments, I remind you that MP Petar Petkovic has withdrawn the amendment to Section 16. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment: the MPs of Milisav Petronijevic to Article 5, Section 3, Srdjan Shajna on Article 5 of Sections 3 and 16 with the correction and Milice Vojić Markovic on Article 5 of Sections 15 and 20 and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 5 of Section 16 and Article 9. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – three abstentions – there is no, 173 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – no, 175 of the 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Donka Banovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 176 out of 186 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Mirko Cvetkovic and Srdjan Mikovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 out of the 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – no, 175 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in the basic text, and the corrections have not been made. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 out of the 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Riza Halimi. The government didn't accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 186 out of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Jaksic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 out of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, Sections 3 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 176 out of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov to Sections 3 and 55. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 out of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 5, the 16 amendments were submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted amendments to Sections 5 and 25 of the amendments. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 173 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 5. Sections 16 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Igic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 5. Sections 17 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you, Article 17. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day since the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – four abstentions - no, 52 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I find that several amendments to the text of the Bills of Law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the Bills with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 5(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The budget system law, budget incomes must be balanced with budgetary expenditures and expenditure. Some of the amendments have led to changes in the part of the budget that regulates expenditure and expenditure, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the provisions governing revenue and receipt of budgets. In view of this, I propose that the National Assembly Service, before the law is passed and published, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out a technical harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments adopted. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – one, with abstention – no, 50 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 36, with abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the 2012 Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions by the National Assembly to agree on amendments and additions to the 2012 Financial Plans of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – four abstentions - no, 50 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to a decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2012. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Decision on the amendments and additions of the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 44 out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to a decision on amendments and additions to the 2012 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Decision on amendments and additions to the 2012 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – 10 abstentions - no, no, 42 out of 186 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to a decision on amendments and additions to the 2012 National Employment Service Financial Plan. We move to the 26th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON BUDGETS SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 37 of the 186 MPs did not vote for – 134 against – 14, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic to Article 24 and to the Government. 2nd and 46th. I find that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 3 which has been submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Janko Veselinović and Sinisa Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Nenad Popovic, Jovan Palalic and Ruzica Igic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 170 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 170 out of the 181 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 24a was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 43 of the 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Sinisa Kovacevic and Ruzica Igic together submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168 out of the 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – nine abstentions – no, 37 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 16, the abstentions – no, 31 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. We move to the 27th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENT OF THE PENSION AND INVALID SURVEILLANCE As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in principle. I ask that we make my point. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – nine, with abstention – there is no vote of 34 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on the amendment, I remind you that MP Marijan Risticevic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 1. It's a bill of law. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 167 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, no 42 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – nine abstentions – no, 35 out of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We move to the 28th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE DETERMINATION OF MAXIMAAL INVESTIGATION IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I am putting to the vote the draft law establishing maximum profit in the public sector, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v - nine, abstention – one, 36 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Articles 1 and 6. Bills and MP Srdjan Mikovic's proposal for article 7. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the Protector of Citizens. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 178 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 174 out of the 178 MPs for - four against - none of the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the six abstentions, voted 172 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – did vote 177 of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petkovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 175 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Citizens' Protector submitted to the 6th Amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 175 out of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Janko Veselinović and Sinisa Lazic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 173 of the 177 MPs for - four against - none, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 173 of the 177 MPs for - four against - none, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of 177 MPs for – two against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 174 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the proposal to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – eight, abstentions – no, 38 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on determining the maximum profit in the public sector, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – nine, abstention – one, 33 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill establishing maximum income in the public sector. As we now move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international agreements, i.e. the agreement (points 29, 30, 31 and 32 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. 29th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW TO APPROVAL OF THE SARADIC ASSOCIATION AGREED BY THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – eight, abstentions – no, 33 out of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. 30th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of Memoranda on Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the Compensation of the System "STAND BY" OF THE UNITED Nations I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the contribution of the system "stand by" of United Nations arrangements, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – two, abstentions – no, 33 out of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. 31st item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW TO APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE IMPROVAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTING DIRECTORS I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the Amending Statute of the International Monetary Fund on the Reform of the Committee of Executive Directors, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 38 of the 177 MPs for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. 32nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Readmission of Persons Who I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying and the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the exercise of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in the whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, voted 41 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill by a majority vote of all MPs. 33rd item of the agenda – Proposal for the Election of the National Bank of Serbia by the National Assembly of Serbia to conduct a single search on the proposal to elect the Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, I remind you that on the basis of Article 99 paragraph 2 and Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all the MPs, decides on the election of the deputy governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I am voting on the proposal to elect the vice-government of the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the governor of the National Bank. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – three abstentions – no, 36 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly made a majority of votes decision on the election of the Vice-Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Let me congratulate the vice governors on their choices and wish them a lot of success in their work. The 34th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the National Audit Institution Council since the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 19. The Law on the State Auditing Institution, the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council elects and resolves most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft decision on the election of the Council of the State Auditing Institution by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the President, Vice President and members of the Council on your behalf and on my behalf, and wish me success in my work. You will allow, of course, in accordance with Article 19(3). The Law on the State Auditing Institution is foreseen to swear an oath before the National Assembly following the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council, taking office. I ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and members of the Council to approach for the purpose of taking an oath. (The President reads, and the President, Vice-President and members of the Council, reiterates the text of the oaths set out in Article 19. The Law on the State Auditing Institution:) "I implore myself to the loyalty of the Republic of Serbia. I promise to respect the constitution and the laws. I pledge to honor my duty to do my duty independently, honestly and unbiasedly and not to abuse my responsibilities" Please the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council to sign the text of the oath. I congratulate you on taking office, and I wish you a lot of success in your work. We move to the 35th item of the agenda – THE SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposals for decisions, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly is carrying out an election mandate with the majority of votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 34 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia- Vojislav Kostunica. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions – one, voted 29 out of the 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 27 out of the 158 MPs, for – 131 against. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's committee, which was tabled by the United Regions of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 28 out of the 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia by the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 23 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since we have come to terms with all the motions for decisions, I ask if you agree that all adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of Serbia" as one legally-technically united act – the decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia? I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted 24 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to the 36th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises the electoral authority of most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 20 out of the 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic, at a session on 19 September 2012, pointed to a violation of members 106, 107 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 144 out of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Janko Veselinovic, at a session on September 22, 2012, at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure without citing a member of the Rules of Procedure to which the infringement relates. I ask the National Assembly to decide that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 142 out of the 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on 22 September 2012, at 15 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide if a member of the 106 is injured. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 135 out of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not an injured member of 106. Rules of Procedure. Before we move to conclusion, I remind you that the next session is scheduled for today at 1400 hours. At the same time, I remind you that the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is immediately after the session is concluded. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. (The session is over at 13.30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2560	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The 10th Extraordinary Session (unregulated and unauthorised) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 25 September 2012 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.15 p.m. Vesna Kovac, vice president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2562	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I will first ask a few rhetorical questions to which I certainly do not expect an answer. Madam Chairman, I don't suppose you know who was president of the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Serbia at the time Nusic wrote "The People's MP". I'm equally convinced that you don't even know which one was at the Russian court the moment Dostoyevsky writes "Brothers of Karamazova"? Who's the American president when Coppola shoots "The Godfather"? Who rules Spain the moment Goya paints the horrors of war? I don't know the answers to those questions right now either. They simply serve to show complete, almost leading to the absolute superiority of art versus politics, to how superior artists are to politicians. "Arse Long Vita Rads," they'd say, "Latini." Our ancestors, dear friends, knew it. So they built monasteries, painted them, so they built the National Theatre literally among the pigs. At a time when the number of written Serbs does not exceed the level of something that today's statistical theory calls a statistical error. That's why they built the National Museum, which is why they formed the Matrix of Serbia, the University, the Academy of Science and Art, knowing if anything can form, both individual and collective identity, not only form it but also preserve it, that it is art. We dear friends of the day bowed before the magnificent Sulja, bowed beside the Mexican high-benders, retreated before the little bride. This occupation victory wouldn't have been so easy if the fifth column hadn't been found, as well as always well organized, at least in Brankovici we've never been destitute. So on television with a national frequency, you can watch big brothers mutilate on the farm, you can watch the choice of Serbia's first throat, the choice of Serbia's first welder, Serbia's first shovel where competition is certainly the largest. It is in preparation to realise Serbia's first iron, which in the time unit ironed the most or who threw the same iron away. I don't know what reason the public service is, and not national television, the ingenious concept of this public house comes down to reruns from Šurda to Šojic and back to the revolutionary TV show that the blonde runs the morning program, blonde leads the news, blonde leads the Belgrade chronicle, blonde keeps a diary, blonde leads the political flow of the program, blonde leads to drinks, blonde leads home. My question at this point ceases to be rhetorical and it is being defined as follows. It has been 120 days since this parliament was formed, and yet no Committee on Culture has been established. By the way, in a country with this cultural diagnosis, that committee has not met dear friends since December of last year. So to formulate this question into something that is no longer a rhetorical phrase, why this committee has not been formed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2563	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2564	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask you a few questions. The first question is, in fact, a review of the issues I asked a few days ago in the discussion of the finance and economy minister and regarding the fate of an energy, or part of an energy agreement that the Republic of Serbia concluded with the Russian Federation in the autumn of 2008. The public in Serbia has been informed for several years that Gazprom Oil, which bought NIS by the end of 2012, will pay a reduced amount of mine rent of only 3%, as you know, this assembly passed a new law last year that raises the level of the mining rent to 7%. In the meantime, however, information appeared a few days ago about Serbian Prime Minister Milan Bačević's resolution that there are serious problems in interpreting these provisions of the treaty that were signed and accepted in this house, and later also in the Serbian government, and who say that a Russian partner requires that this privilege be applied to him after 1 January 2013, i.e. to continue to pay a mining rent that is significantly lower than the overall rate of mining rent in Serbia. To understand what amounts it is, and just the day a new budget rebalancing was adopted, where no money was required to tighten the belt, the average amount of the mining rent charged over the past few years at this lower rate was about or nearly $25m for oil that has been exported to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which was approximately 800m euros in the past few years. If a general rate of 7% applied, that income would be somewhere or slightly above 50m euros. The 25, 30m euros is not small for Serbia's budget, and there is Mr Obradovic, I am sure he can confirm how little that $30m would mean in his portfolio. Maybe today we wouldn't have this problem in the law that we're going to consider with the number of students on the budget and the inability to finance a higher number of students' education on budget spending. So, please, that the Serbian Government, the resolute ministries, say what the problem is, why is the contract unclear as the Energy Minister says, and did the LDP, along with several other parties who voted against such a poorly-determined, unclear agreement in favour of only one party, have been right in 2008, when we said that we were going to get into this situation, that the contract was made so that it was extremely unfavourable for our side and that for years after its application, we would suffer adverse consequences? I think it's a matter of first order at this point, both for Serbia's budget and for the citizens. The second question I want to ask is also being asked here during the last week. We didn't get an answer for him. As you know, I believe, Mr. Obradovic, that you participated in this, the government appointed officials in a number of public enterprises last Thursday and made some recommendations to be directors of companies, or companies with majority, state capital. The public has not yet learned on the basis of which criteria you have made such a decision, especially in a situation where during the previous election, or pre-election campaign, a departisation has been announced, and I ask the government and new administrations of public and state-owned enterprises, whose executives have been appointed last Thursday, to deliver work professional biographies of those people elected in these places, in order for Serbian citizens to know whether these are the persons who have the necessary qualifications for the job and whether they are able to dispose of the enormous financial resources associated with these companies, whether through their business, whether through what they receive in different ways from the budget. The public is fully interested in the case of the PTT Public Enterprise, i.e. the Post Office of Serbia. The fact is that as acting director of the company, Mr. Milan Krkobibic, deputy president of one of the parliamentary parties, who has not yet supplied to the public the information that would reassure us in the belief that his working professional biography, everything he has done, does not provide sufficient grounds to believe that he is able to manage, in an efficient and per citizen of Serbia, a very important strategic enterprise, a company that has planned a budget of around 220m euros for 2012. I don't think there's any need for us to go public anymore. It is enough to deliver a professional biography or work book, Mr. Krkobiæ is still an MP in this Assembly and to resolve all the dilemmas that exist in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2565	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2566	Dear colleagues, the President-in-Office, I would like to ask a question I asked the previous government as well, and it is that we have requested a report from the cabinet, at which ministers voted in favour of the Rehabilitation Law, which was later withdrawn from the Serbian Parliament's agenda due to disagreements between the SPS and the SPS. We have received an answer from the then government that it is an official secret that one of the ministers voted in that session and that we MPs, who have elected that government, cannot know how the ministers work, whether their mission is a secret, whether their decisions are not being questioned at all. We're a young democracy. However, countries in the region, such as Croatia, also ensure the transparency of their government's work. On the website of the Government of Croatia you can see video clips with meetings of ministers, with everything who discussed, what he stood for and how he voted. I think MPs in parliament, I think Serbian citizens, must have insight into the work of ministers, in their behaviour at government meetings. Parliament also has a control role, and how will it have, if it cannot get from the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a paper on which it says that one of the ministers voted for the proposed laws? So I would ask the responsible to do something, to answer us if there is any possibility of being transparent in the future, when it comes to government sessions? Is there a possibility that Serbian lawmakers and citizens might have insight into the work of ministers? I think the choice of any man as a minister is, in itself, an obligation to ensure his transparency in the performance of his post and I think it is the government's duty for the citizens of Serbia to inform them of the work of their ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2567	Thank you. Anyone else in line with Article 287 want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to complete this session before the start of the regular session period. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from attending Dijana Vukomanovic, Susana Spasojevic and Vesna Stepic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda laws set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of Professor Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have also called for the meetings of Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović and Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and Prof. Dr. Slobodan Stupar, Assistant Minister of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the invitation of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the 10th Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2012, the next Dn e n i r e d 1 was set. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on mutual recognition of the replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on Social Security, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on social security and 5. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries. I'm asking the MPs to put the cards back in the identification units. Check everyone on the screen for what's written to you, whether or not you're told the card is in function. I'm asking you once again to re-enter the I.D. system. Since a proposal has been tabled for the merger of the debates on points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, before we move to a decision on the proposal, we need to determine whether there is a quorum to decide on. I'm asking the MPs to insert identification cards into the MP's unit. I want to apologize to all the MPs, we have a technical problem in the system, so I ask you to re-apply the vote. I'm sorry, but I'm redecorating a five-minute break to reset the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2570	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, allow me to give a brief explanation on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of the law that the Assembly will discuss today. In fact, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which contains eight members and on the basis of the number of members, could conclude that it is a law which is of little importance. However, in the context of the provisions contained in these articles, in the light of what it means to apply the provisions of this law in practice, it is also about how important the law is. I want to say immediately at the beginning of this presentation that the essence of the amendments and the addition of the Higher Education Act is to allow as many students as possible to enroll with the determined number of points necessary for the year's enrollment in an appropriate year of study. That's the essence of this proposal. I must tell you that we have come to this proposal together at the level of the entire academic community. "CONUS", as a Conference of Rectors of all universities of Serbia, representatives of students, colleges, students' conferences of higher schools of vocational studies, and we at the Ministry of Education discussed this problem in March of the current year. The agreement was then reached to propose to the Assembly, whoever was then a minister, or whatever government, to make changes to the Law on Higher Education, so that, before the start of the new school year, these new conditions would be adopted and thus create the possibility that as many students as possible enter the year. This is also the essential reason why this law was passed, or adopted by the Government and addressed to the Assembly by an urgent procedure. You will see from the contents of this law that are all changes. The point is next. For this school year, 2011-2012, the amendments and additions to this law, i.e. by adopting it, create opportunities for students who score at least 48 points per year, and for the following year to be at least 50 points in 2014-2015 to be 60. At the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Education and Science issues, there were also questions about both this and the question of the deadlines under examination, because a number of colleagues asked a question – why are the number of deadlines being reduced? Namely, it's easy to explain why 48, because most students are enrolled. Of course, it also responds to the problems we have in higher education, and we meet students' demands, especially under the conditions of a difficult economic situation, that most of them enroll in the university on the cost of the state. When it comes to the number of test deadlines, I want to inform you and the public that the number of test deadlines will gradually decrease. In the next school year, in 2012-2013, in this school year starting in a few days, the number of deadlines tested will be six. In the 2013-2014 school year, the number of test deadlines will be five and only 2014-2015 will be four exams. Otherwise, when it comes to the number of test deadlines, I want you to know that we are the country that has the highest number of test deadlines in the region. In the countries of Europe, the number of test deadlines is three. However, the point is that it is obviously different in the process of teaching, compared to between students and professors. It's something we're looking for. If you remember, the changes were started, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Higher Education as early as 2005, the application of the law began a year later. Today, I was just telling my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, under the circumstances of this bill two probationary deadlines were provided. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I then proposed an amendment which increased the number of deadlines examined to three. In the meantime, we have carried out these increases that have been, but only as our reaction to the changes that followed by the adoption of the law and the beginning of the new law and the creation of a European space of higher education, i.e. our participation in that area and the problems we have faced. I want you to know that this law solves another problem. Students who entered their first year of basic studies in 2006-2007, 2007-2008, 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 reserve the right to finance themselves from the budget for the longest year after the end of the regular duration of the studies. With this bill, we have also found answers to the solutions of those students who listen to all lectures, so to speak. the graduates are now given the opportunity to subject themselves, to establish the time-limits for the students within the number of test deadlines set by the Higher Education Act. Also, we have another very important thing, today a colleague and SDPS mentioned it, and this is a question of making a national qualification framework. I have to tell you that the National Council for Higher Education has almost finished this job, but now he's formally given the obligation to do the job, so that when he gets that document, the ministry will adopt the national qualification framework. Otherwise, it is a list of titles that are obtained on the basis of the completed appropriate degree of the higher education institution. Of course, this is a variable category, given that the study programmes are accredited within a certain period and that some of them are made together with representatives of the economy, that they contain appropriate calls. It is quite logical that the needs of the labour market are constantly brought into line with what produces higher education and that these changes will be, because we also agree with what brings us objectively what exists in the European higher education area, i.e., if I may say so, on the labour market. There's one more thing we've accepted to change, which is to give students conferences of higher schools, vocational studies and colleges the opportunity to have legal personality because they're part of the European Students' Organization. With the legal personality, otherwise, set up by the Law on Higher Education, they gain the opportunity to compete equally with other colleagues from other countries of Europe for different projects and to participate as students in the process of creating a higher education space. Allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues, to mention a few more things that I think will be interesting to you, because they may not have been available to the public so far, and they concern the issue of passability, or the number of students who complete the appropriate level of knowledge, or achieve the corresponding number of points. Here I own documents on the University of Belgrade, one analysis based on the results of the exams at the 29th University of Belgrade. It is about students who enrolled in 2010-2011 in the student programmes of basic, academic and integrated studies, according to the number of points achieved. When you look at the total number of students, those who scored 60 points, their number is 4.228 or 31%. The number of students who scored 48 to 59 points is 3,774 or 28%. The number of students who scored less than 48 "ESP" points is 5,050 or 36%, and 642 students or 5% of them were issued. If these figures are now divided further, then entered into the structure of those students in relation to the way they are financed, whether they are budgetary students or self-financed, the data are the following. When we look at students who are enrolled in budgetary status, those who have achieved 60 "ESP" points their number is 3,291 students or 38%. So, 60 points makes 38% of students. From 48 to 59 points, 2,687 students or 30% achieved. Less than 48 points made 2,507 students or 28%. 381 students or 4%. That's when it comes to budget students. When it comes to self-financing, there are different results. Sixty points achieved only 937 students, or 19%, 48 to 59 points 1,087 or 23% and less than 48 points 2.543 or 53% of students, 261 students and 5% respectively were released. If we do one comparative analysis of these results from 2010 and 2011, the data is even more interesting and they speak, let me say about this increase in the passability of students who enter a year of study. So, in school 2008 and 2009, out of 13,550 enrolled students, 7,539 scored at least 48% points and 3,664 of all 60 points. In the 2010-2001 school year, out of 13694 enrolled students, 8.002 scored at least 48 points, and of which 4.228 all 60 "ESPB" points. So the increase in the number of students compared to two years, which are the subject of this analysis is about 150, but when it comes to the number of students who scored 48 and more points, and 60 points is far higher, because 1,400, about 600 and some students. I'm telling you this, because this is an indication that the system, let me say, works, that there is an increase in passing and that there is an increase in the number of students who are fulfilling these necessary conditions for the year's entry. Of course, the number of students, those who score 60 points, is increasing as a goal for which we seek and which will be set only in 2014-2015. I am referring consciously to 2014-2015, because in the last few days, in one part of the public, he tried to show that the number of deadlines from this year will be reduced, and this will be only 2014-2015. So for those who pass exams for next year, I repeat again there will be six test deadlines, the next year five and only in 2014-2015 with the start of application of 60 points, and that number of deadlines will be four. If you try, if someone actually asks a question why at least 50 points? I want to tell you that together with the professors and students, we have tried to give an answer to the diversity that exists between the colleges, that is, the fields in which they are formed and the judicial programmes that have been accredited. Namely, the condition of at least 50 points means essentially that one exam will be passed over next year, because if you look at the structure of the course and the number of ECPBs within each college, you will see that the largest number of them has five, six, seven, eight, I hold in my hand data related to the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Economics, they like to have examples on the list, otherwise these data are downloaded via the Internet, among the seven items have four with ten ESP points, only on one year. When it comes to the Faculty of Physical Sciences of the University of Belgrade, there are 14 points, two items ten, one item two and eight points, and two by three. Technology-metalluric by seven six points, the Faculty of Pharmacy in Belgrade seven, eight, six, five etc. University of Nis Law School, for two semesters nine, seven, seven, two subjects with ten points. At medical school, we have two-semed exams that carry as many as 16 points. I mention this two-monthly, because the time has changed when we were students, at the time most of the cases were two-monthly, now they're one-dimensional, and now the degree of burden is longer and the entire academic community and the professors and students are estimated to be in these two ways: the gradual increase in the number of points, the gradual and greater coverage of both strategic goals and higher enrolment, the greater number of students, the greater number of them end, and that, in the meantime, the process ends, if I may say, the improvements in teaching and raising quality at the level of higher education. That the simple process of teaching and that relationship between a professor and a student is as good as possible. Because the point is, it's a way of teaching. The essence is the content of the textbook available to students. The point is a way of grading students. The point is to communicate between them during teaching. The bottom line is that the student has to study and participate in all of this, let's say, parts of the knowledge check that are over the years and that practically the final exam turns into one, let's say, the conversation between the candidate and the teacher that gives a single overall assessment of the level of knowledge shown over the course of one year. I want to tell you that in the course of last year and this year we have achieved the appropriate results that give us the right to conclude that the level of quality of higher education in Serbia is improving. Last year, our students in Istanbul won first place in the robotics contest. Here, last night we had the opportunity, some of us, also a great presentation to say a new robot, and as far as it came with robotics in the world, and what is an interesting initial impulse to develop this science branch was given by Serbian science and Professor Vukbratović in 1968, and now unfortunately other countries have taken over the primate in that. But I'm telling you this because it's objectively about one process, it's not just the students from that area who won first prizes and students from the Faculty of Organizational Sciences were the first in Europe, and the third in the world to solve the method of study of the case. Faculty of Legal Sciences students in media law were first in Oxford last year. The students of the Faculty of Engineering have made one model formula one, although someone will say that it is a kind of sport, those who are a little bit more following the formula one know that it is demanding scientific and mechanically to solve the problems needed to make this formula quality and how much knowledge it takes to create one such project. Then we had students of the Faculty of Architecture and a series of other colleges that won prestigious awards, not to mention individual awards of students. I would like to mention that this year the Belgrade University has entered 500 better universities in the world on the basis of the "Shanga List", that we have been declared as a rising star for several years, that we have done more, to say small steps that objectively yielded results and improved higher education. That doesn't mean it's ideal, but it's far from that, because it's ideal they wouldn't change this law. These are the problems we face and the way we try to solve these problems and do it together with the entire academic community. I am convinced that the National Assembly will accept amendments and additions to this law. We'll see what the amendments are contained that are proposed. If they are such a character as to improve the content of these changes and the addition of the Law on Higher Education, we will absolutely accept them. Anyway, I want you to know that every proposal is welcome and I expect the Parliament in voting day, I expect it to be Thursday, to pass this law. That, then, all of us, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and those who vote for this proposal, should say, send the most beautiful message to students for the start of the new school year, that they have 48 points of entry and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has passed a law that gives the opportunity to enroll as many students as possible a year on state spending, given that it is known how students rank within the quota. In addition to each year's quota, for those who do not know, the decision of the Faculty of Education may increase the number by 20%. So we are now, practically, funding over 50% of students in all schools of state and higher schools of vocational studies in Serbia, which is objectively very, very important compared to the economic situation we are in. But I have to say, I think it's selflessly returned to us by the students. I think by adopting this law, we've taken a good step towards raising and increasing transparency and working together in an order of years to raise the quality of higher education in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2571	Thank you. Does the rapporteur from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, National MP Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic, deputy president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, MP Vladimir Cvian, president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2572	I have already delivered to the press the view that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club will not support amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, for reasons showing that students at state colleges will be in a subordinate position compared to students studying at private universities. In addition to all the praises that the minister made for the students, their education, their brains and their successes, here are more than two decades, the largest number of best students leaving Serbia to the EU or the US, because they can cash in on their knowledge by getting opportunities that Serbia does not offer. I do not believe that these amendments and amendments to the law will be changed more significantly for Serbia as well as for higher education. There, therefore, in the EU countries and in America, they are the best experts in the areas where they graduated, and they are nowhere to be found or needed by anyone. Before the start of Serbia's sunflowers, therefore, before the 1990s, children in schools learned that Serbia, as far as natural resources are concerned, is one of the richest countries in Europe. Today's textbooks say it's not like that, and I have an answer for why. As we were economically weak, and the responsibility for this weakness did not accept various political nomenclatures, the easiest thing was to accuse nature, and even if a poor geo-political situation were added, then the justification was complete. In order for the justification to be given to packaging, extra complete, some media research has recently appeared, saying that Serbia, as far as its children's education is concerned, has no reason to be overly satisfied. I think it's a lie. I claim that a Belgrade University student, more educated than a capital student, is either from any of the EU countries or from any education centre in the United States, naturally comparing them within the same scientific area. However, conditions of study in Serbia and prospects for the best, relative to the conditions and perspectives that the student has in the west, are not the same, but are exactly the difference between the east and the west. In the West, if you're the best after the final studies, you'll find a job right now, and here unless you're a member of a political party, no matter how good a student you are, and that's not just a criticism of this government, it's a criticism of all the previous governments, and it seems to me that the situation has been changing dramatically since 2000. We at the SPO know that. In the 1990s, we had political dissidents of that time, who were not kicked out of work because they were in the SPO, even the directors of individual businesses, but in 2000 when DOS came to power, then longing to hire all party acronyms of small political parties, who until then had no infrastructure and to build a party infrastructure, the DOS began to employ exclusively party personnel, who had no validation of validity and who were literally brought from the street, from crisis headquarters, to take over certain JPs. I'm looking at the amendments to the law in Articles 4 and 64, which defines that the number of deadlines under examination will be reduced from six to four, and I think that's one big mistake because in this way, in the subordinate position, I repeat, students of the state colleges are put in. It explains that it is to increase the efficiency of the teaching process. I doubt that. What teaching process, not to lie, to look the truth in the eye exists in most private colleges? Smaller towns around Serbia have no buildings, no classrooms, no classrooms, students who pay tuition, that's all. What, then, will those teaching process, please, be able to improve by reducing the number of test deadlines for students at state colleges? Why would they organize a teaching process now that they haven't had it all this time? As far as private colleges are concerned, exam deadlines don't have to be. There students are mostly enrolled to get diplomas, not to have knowledge checks, or to specialize in a scientific field. There's a department at private colleges, most of them, with students, who say, "I'm going through it at night, I'm shining in the morning." I can talk best about college students. When you talk about the robotics fair and there is a minister right, students of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at Belgrade University participated in creating its present-day appearance and all the greatest achievements in the field currently in the world. It is precisely because of these party personnel, which are in top positions, that I think that the state should systematically address the issue of improving the situation of people who have completed colleges and the possibilities for them to be in the leading positions, so that they finally have one expert elite, freed from ideological divisions, freed from all those incidents in the 1990s, and with their expertise, and the same insight of problems from the world as their peers, such as London or New York, in any world metropolis, will best be able to connect Serbia with the modern world. How is it possible that when a Belgrade University student goes to any EU country, he will be the best expert there? Here in campaigns, political parties swear to have the most professional fit, and the country is on the verge of ambition year after year, in a more difficult and difficult situation. When I talk about the right of knowledge in state and private colleges, it's incomparable. As a result, I think that the reduction of deadlines from six to two years, for two teaching years to four, will just hit the state colleges, i.e., hit the students of the state colleges, or hit the hardest, families that finance their studies, especially people from smaller backgrounds, or students from smaller backgrounds that go to Belgrade to gain their academic titles. If a year of Belgrade University student falls, therefore, he who is at the state university, and his parents finance him, and not living in Belgrade, they will be obliged to pay the financial penalty, and if such a same student lives in Belgrade and studies, he will have no problem because he would certainly live in that household, whether he studied or fell years, or moved regularly from one year to another. That's why I think we should withdraw this bill or in that section that talks about reducing the number of exam deadlines to do something so that students from the state colleges don't, again, be in a position that is subordinate to students from private colleges. I don't doubt the best intentions of Minister Obradovic, however, I think we could have been better systemically, otherwise solve problems. This state requires not a change of one law, not a partial law, but a change of essence, a change of everything from the root. When the Department Act comes to life, then the best students from the state college will have a chance to be employed in the best places. I met a friend of mine who was a friend of mine from a student demonstration in 1996 and 1997. He was later a senior official of one of the parties that was a member of the DOS. I met him a few years ago, and it was very interesting to talk to him. I told him we didn't fight for this, we fought to get better. He's well-dressed, he's got money and he said, "I'm better off." So that it doesn't happen, and in order for the best, not the proletaries, not those who are drilling into the chest and who will be at every party meeting, to get a chance, then we must change everything from the root, Minister Obradovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2573	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2574	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the SVM will support the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act. I would like from our point of view to explain why, what is good and what are the tendencies over the next few years, as we have heard from the Honorable Mr. Minister. The academic community, students look forward to reducing the conditions for entry to 48 points in the budget, and that will happen now. We will actually reduce this condition from 60 to 48 points before October 1st. It should be stressed that the tendency to stay on the budget or to enter the budget should be 60 points according to the Bologna Declaration, which means that students who finance themselves on the cost of the state should actually take all the exams and have a maximum of 60 points. As we know, the Higher Education Act was passed in 2005 and since then there have been several amendments and additions to this law. First in 2007 there was an authentic interpretation due to the problem of equating arguments about what masters are and what they are graduates. In 2008 and 2010, changes occurred, and each time because we were trying to go to 60, it was proposed to reduce it to 42, 48, 54. The students have always objected and there have been no such changes this year either. So this year has also given up 54, and even 50, with the plan to really next school year be 50, then those 2014/2015. School year 60. Of course, we understand that there are problems in certain colleges, which is a small number of those students who, because of their strong obligations, are able to meet all their obligations, but I must stress that not even 48 points won in some colleges does not automatically mean that this student will be able to learn about the cost of the state, as is said in the jargon, precisely because one of the conditions is 48 points, and the other is ranking. So, all these students will rank among all those who are on the budget, and then you'll see if 48 points is enough or not. Of course, it applies to many colleges where there are a large number of students, so they complain on the other hand why I have enough points, but they can't quota those students who are on the budget to increase by more than 10.20%. I would like to commend that the ministry has managed to find a compromise solution when we talk about other changes, i.e. a reduction in the number of deadlines tested. Of course, students object. They say – the current six test deadlines are acceptable, good and why we want to reduce their number of test deadlines to four. It is said little about the fact that in 2010 the sixth test deadline was actually returned. So, there were five deadlines tested, that previous changes in 2010, that number was returned to six and that it would actually be this school year in the period 2012/2013. The number stays six years, the next school year will be reduced to five and then to four. What it seems to me, Mr. Minister may have talked a little bit about in his opening statement, and what's significant for senior-year students at various universities is that their, some of them call it, an graduate internship, say it's now an official extended internship, that their status extends from six months to a year. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians certainly supports this because the students of the final years of the study in that period have the right to a dormitory, which means a lot to them, on the table, on loans and, of course, have the right to, say, public transport privileges. By asking them and talking to them, they say it's not that simple, but it's certainly good, because nobody knows who's at the last year of the study, whether or not they'll have the right to a home, but it's a good thing they don't have to worry that they're only going to stay for six months, for a year. It is a very important change that actually extends, or complements the responsibilities of the National Council, and this amendment concerns proposing to the Ministry of National Qualifications Framework for the level of higher education and, of course, extends the responsibilities of the Ministry, which it is under the obligation to establish these national qualifications frameworks for the level of higher education precisely on a proposal from the National Council. Some find it unclear what this really means and why this national qualification framework is important. However, most of us know that in 2003 the Republic of Serbia became part of a large European university family and this entire Bologna process, and just after this Bologna process, the curricula and programmes should be in line with other European universities and of course, what was then a big news story for our students, the aforementioned system of points was finally introduced, the European system of transfer of points. That is when the so-called so-called ‘supervised’ was established. degree studies. Graduated studies have since meant that under a new system of education diplomas can be acquired after three, four or five years. It is precisely because of the achievement of the objectives of this mentioned Bologna process that the national qualification framework is important to clarify these new expertises and to define what they are, to define their relationship with old professional devices, so that it is necessary, it is obvious and the objective of these changes and additions, that our national qualifications framework for higher education is fully in line with the general framework of qualifications for the European space of higher education, which SVM certainly supports. Even the Council of Europe has a project that includes our country. On the basis of this project, the main objective is to clearly determine once and for all learning outcomes for all three cycles of education, which would mean explaining what holders of individual qualifications know, what they understand, what holders of individual qualifications can do. It's just these learning outcomes. The next amendment proposed by these amendments and the addition of the Law on Higher Education is that student conferences can have legal personality from now on. This is also an extremely significant, precisely basic and trivial thing that student conferences will be able to open bank accounts and will be able to compete equally with other members of the European Student Union for projects aimed at these and such organisations. You will allow me, within the time of the authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, to ask a few questions, i.e. to most well point out certain problems our students face, mostly graduates. One of the burning problems with our country's PhDs is that in the vast majority of the colleges of postgraduate scholarships, doctoral studies cost between 150 and 200 thousand dinars per year. Anyway, so that's some average and, of course, college addiction. The problem is that the ministry, mostly this means so far it's been a practice, the ministry determines the number of PhDs, which can be trained on the burden of the budget and is usually published at the end of October, so, when it's already too late. The ministry determines the number relating to the university, and therefore divides the number of PhD students per university. The problem is that when doctors enroll in doctoral studies, of course that amount of money, the amount of tuition should immediately be paid when they apply, and they don't know how many students will be financed from the budget at that time. So this is one problem, which is that the dates aren't a harmonised beginning of October, mid-October. Another problem is that doctors face, that those who, as ordinary students, mean students of postgraduate studies, give a condition for the second, say, for the second year of doctoral studies, face the technical problem of coming to the school's counter, with aunts and there telling them that this new quota applies again only to the graduates of the first year, that this does not apply to them. So, the conditions are completely demoted, because they simply have to re-collect the tuition of those 150,000 dinars to pay out of their pocket. Of course, I know, Mr. Minister, that it's not up to you, that it's probably up to the university, but I'm most likely to ask you that, for example, the ministry organises a meeting where they'll invite the deans, the rectors, to come up with a concrete agreement that you really know it's not, that it automatically solves every college in its own way. The second issue or other topic, which is also extremely important, which unfortunately has not been resolved in our country yet, is that unfortunately it is a realistic picture that a completely unregulated qualification system is in the Republic of Serbia and that it is extremely difficult to recognise foreign qualifications with us. So, when from foreign studies no matter where, in various countries, students who graduate from colleges, foreign studies return to the Republic of Serbia, the biggest problem is their nostration of diplomas. The experiences of these people say that very long waitings are common, it is not unusual to have to wait extremely long for the most ordinary recognitions and nostrifications. We believe that the nostrification procedure should be something simplified, not that it is happening today, as is happening in practice today, that a certain college, for example, refuses a candidate who wants to nost out a degree, and another college admits his degree. We do, and I suppose we agree that it's better that nostrification is done by the state, not the university individually. We read in the media at the end of last year that a Working Group working on the law on the recognition of qualifications acquired abroad or how some call it the law on the recognition of foreign qualifications and the question of the SVM parliamentary club is – when can we expect a systematic or legal solution to this problem? Not to mention how complicated nostration is and how difficult it is, not to say impossible when a certain expert prepares, for example, does not exist in our system. It would be good if we could see the eased recognition of the diploma as soon as possible, without leaving that practice that, unfortunately, is still current with us, which is that someone who wants to nostrify their diploma has to go through various commissions, taughtly more scientifically. In some universities each exam is individually checked, plan and program work, compliance with our programs, etc. These are two questions I would like to receive an answer and to return to the proposed amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. We are all aware of this, and the ministry's tendency is to make budget conditions at the beginning of 2014 and 2015 maximum 60 points. There has been a tendency since 2005 when this law was passed, because as I said the goal of the Bologna Declaration is to reward those students who pass all exams and win a maximum 60 points. The most interesting question is students, good students who don't care if it's a 48, 50, 54 or 60 condition, but the academic community is waiting for us to bring these changes as soon as possible. Many say a more serious system-based analysis or a revolution of various programmes and plans is needed, because again I believe that we will all agree that learning should be focused on students. From 2003 to today, nine years have passed, and many students have not yet been released from unnecessary knowledge and find it difficult to focus on what they really need in the profession. I thank you, and I'm sure you'll be able to give me some answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2575	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2576	Thank you. We will consider whether and to what extent we will uphold this law. Because when we got the bill, that's why. In addition to the law, I must say that we expected to find some fundamental changes in the system that are obviously necessary. All the results we have at this point show that our students in these conditions, in these circumstances, cannot meet the criteria to win 60 points in that percentage that would guarantee us different generations that should take responsibility for some changes in society. I must say that the bill of amendments has one very obvious motive in point 7. which says that this year remains 48 points and that the increase in the necessary points for continuing schooling and for enrolling the new year will increase next year, and then progressively and more. In this way, it has been avoided for students to rebel this year, to repeat their demands, so to speak, their dissatisfaction at least to be delayed for the next year and years ahead. What doesn't concern me in the whole thing, which makes sense to me somewhere, is that actually students don't want to, and they don't need to win 60 points, because the criteria of what they do here actually divides them I mean two categories. One is those who score 60 points, who have a very clear vision of where and when they continue their lives and careers and they fall, I think, in those scary 70% of students who today say they are waiting to finish their studies to get out of this country. This brain drain has not been stopped and will not be stopped for so long until knowledge and results in school are also a basic criterion for obtaining employment and until such a business environment is created in which such an environment will be necessary. We're schooling, actually, the ones who stay here are studying for government jobs, lawyers, possibly economists, that's what's left. Everything that's on the power plant, you know that generations already have contracts with those who will hire them abroad, and we have to do something about it, because that something has to change. So I expect this law to calm the students, at least Article 7, as I expect to upset them in Article 4, which says they will reduce the number of deadlines. Namely, if the results show that in these conditions, with this number of deadlines, with this relatively unregulated system, you yourself said what the essence is, and textbooks and the different relationship of professors and different communication and different schedules and more understanding of what the needs of students are, that is, the essence. Without a change in that part, students really, apart from a number of deadlines, have no other way of accomplishing all that is expected of them. I don't see, I have to say, maybe it's important because of generations to be enrolled, why are we changing today and announcing something that will only happen in the school year 2013-2014 and 2014-2015? And in this way, in a way, upset these students who at this point need to study and finish their studies. The question of points, the question of professor relations, the question of Bologna as such, which is constantly presented to us as being largely implemented, I actually think that it is only at the beginning and that it requires absolute evaluation and revision of the sense of seeing what has been done, to see what needs to be changed in the system so that most students can achieve better results. We here actually transfer the full responsibility for the poor results of higher education to students. I don't think that's good. I think it is necessary that, within the academic community, teachers agree on what they really want, what they are ready for, how ready they are to change, how ready they are to learn themselves, how ready they are to communicate with those who need to share their knowledge. That at this point, I think, is completely missing. The moment programs are revised, when it comes down to, over time, it can't quickly, fully understand, establish a different communication, then we can begin to deny students some of the rights and opportunities they have at this point and expect them to achieve better results than they do today. I have to say that the results of education, these are the figures that have to do everything, not just worry, but to be disgusted in some way, is that we do, and I'm going to go back to higher education, so we have a million and a half illiterate ones. We have information that is nowhere to be denied that 30% of those who finish primary school leave that school functionally illiterate. I have to say that it reflects to a large extent what those who have received the qualification to teach in schools in one way or another get that qualification at our universities. In that sense, I think that a serious, fundamental reform is necessary, and that these changes of law touch only power. Of course, the issue of the national qualification framework is necessary. I'm sorry it's not over yet. It's just incomprehensible that it's not over yet. It's not such a complicated job that it couldn't be done within a reasonable period of time, since it started until today. I think the question might be, on the board, we had a conversation with council representatives, who among other things said they were overloaded, who among other things said they had one secretary and who said they had very narrowed labour opportunities. I think it might have made it impossible for them to bring in one of these important documents. I'd like to say one more thing, since I'm going to split my exposure as an authorised representative into two parts, related to Article 2. Of course, it's very good that the student conference gets legal status and can open an account. The question that opens here is, in my opinion, which court register is this? As far as I know, court registers as such no longer exist. There are various agencies, some other bodies, ministries, but the court register as such no longer exists. Maybe my knowledge is out of date, but as far as I know, they don't exist. So who's going to assign legal person status to student conferences? Legal status isn't just a title to be won and the bill isn't just a right to be won. This results in a whole series of organizational and other changes that this organization needs to endure, and in addition, demand and financial responsibility, etc., which is always, I must say, through the experience we have with student organisations, the problem of possibly short-staying people who are responsible for these things, because the moment they stop being students, they should lose and the right to represent students. That is why we will submit an amendment, in which we will propose that the student conference be registered as an association with the APR (Employment Registers Agency), thereby obtaining legal personality status or, then, within that status, it can function according to the law of the envisaged frameworks. I will also agree with Mr. Jugovic that one of the hopes that woke up in me when it came to departementisation was precisely that knowledge, qualifications would become crucial for future employment of people. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. It's clear to us now, it's been announced. I don't see what would stimulate any student to fight for some knowledge and qualification if it didn't provide him with even more security to get a job. Hence, I repeat, as many times as possible and necessary, I think we need to pay much more attention and with much more courage to enter education reforms. If we want economic development, if we want to work, to create human resources for a market, we need to know which direction our economy is going to develop, what we're going to qualify for young people for. I listened to Mr. Dinkic. He's talking about the railways and the Rembabs miners. Is that the perspective of our development? I'm afraid not. I remind you of what happened in Kragujevac. The re-industrialisation of Kragujevac has shown that what used to be workers can hardly work in this new industry, that additional education is needed, and many, as you remember, have given up. They said: We have neither knowledge nor the ability to function in this system. If we want Serbia to progress, if we want to get out of this crisis, I think the issue of education is crucial. I think that the changes that are proposed here are only one relatively superficial grooming, without getting into the essence of our higher education problem and that without getting into the essence of that problem, we will not achieve the results we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2577	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2578	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, it has been nine years since Serbia signed the Bologna Declaration and seven years since the application of the principle of the Bologna Declaration into a higher education system in Serbia. For the start of application, we can take the adoption of the law in 2005, although it has only started to apply in 2006. So it's been about six or seven years since the application and the new law, with the built-in elements of the Bologna Process. What did that show or what the results were? It can be said that the results of the application are half and perverse. But to the general question of how long it's been with the reform of higher education, it's very difficult to give an exact answer, especially since the situation is very different from college to college. In the same college, the situation differs from section to section, and if we bring it down to the smallest element, we can say freely that, and as far as the professor is concerned, the situation is very different. At the Ministerial Conference held in Bucharest, I think that these conferences are held every other year and these conferences are largely analyzed as far as any state that signed the Bologna Declaration, which is almost all European countries, I think 46 European states signed this declaration, so these ministerial conferences are analysed as far as the state has arrived in the reform of higher education and I think that the last one Serbia received is somewhat lower than the previous one and that it was 3.11. So, we got a good grade, three, what the people would say -- medium sadness. We also often hear that, and sometimes we see on TV protests, I think that a year and a half ago there have been many student protests throughout Europe, so there are often protests and dissatisfactions and students and professors and in other European countries that have gone into reform before. I mean, especially Austria, Switzerland, Italy, a few years ago, there was such dissatisfaction. We also have different opinions, these are the professors who have not even heard that this law has been amended, you have to tell the students – I do not accept Bologna, I do not want to work on Bologna, etc., until you have security professors who can agree with some reform, partly, completely, etc. But they're safe and they apply and respect the law. We have this part where I resent the Ministry of Education, although I know that the autonomy of universities, colleges, etc. is brought to perfection by us, but I can't explain to myself that if you work in a sector you can simply say that I don't want to respect the statutes of the university, and that I don't want to respect the decisions made in the house where I work. That would be the same as saying here - you know what, I don't like this Rules of Procedure and I don't want to work on it. When it comes to higher education, a colleague of Dereta also spoke about it, one of the biggest problems is that in Serbia no one has seriously addressed the question of how much do we need academically educated citizens and what profiles? We're always talking about the need for new industrialization, and here we've heard a fresh example of Kragujevci, so if we're going to recover our economy and recover some branches of industry, then we need to know how much we need first of all engineers and what professions. Also, we need to know that we don't need very many managers of all profiles. So we just miss that kind of long-term planning. When the time comes for the Ministry to determine the total quota, then all colleges are asking for it to increase from 10% to 20%, then pressure from students to parents to the public, etc. It happens very often that because of all this, the Ministry gives in, precisely because it has no clear plan of what we need and what we don't need, and that is again related to the fact that there is no complete strategy for economic development. So we don't know which way we want to go. Now I mentioned that we need re-industrialization. But we don't have some quality document to make a plan out of, so the Ministry will be able to have a defense and say, "You know what, you can't enroll in two thousand at law school, because, according to our strategic plans, we don't need so many lawyers next year." I've just cited this as an example, so I don't get the lawyers mad at me for this. I'll say a few things about these proposed changes. Educational workers are usually good students and they're always sticking to the subject, so I expect that in today's debate we won't be giving up much. I didn't want to step down in this opening part, but I just wanted to point out some general problems that I hope we can talk about when we discuss the proposal for a strategy on the development of higher education for 2020. I'd like to make a commitment here that this strategy goes not only through the government, but also into this home, so that we can discuss it. I will start with Article 7 of the amendment and the addition of the Law amending Article 88 of the existing or applicable law. There's been a lot of words about it. It is a change in the number of points necessary for the student to enter next year and stay on the budget under that particular quota. If the law is now respected, without these changes, we have already reached the school year when it is necessary for the student to score 60 ESPB points in order to enter next year. So we support this change, which is absolutely extorted, by thinking that next year is set to 50, so that we can get to about 60 points again, as was the original plan. Why can someone say this will go to the expense of quality? When you talk to students, the student will tell you that a student in Serbia, who should win, e.g. 48 points, or winning 48 points is not the same as a student who, for example, at an Austrian university, it must score 48 points and the burden of students in Serbia is much higher. In Austria for 60 points it takes 1,500 to 1,800 hours of work, here it can be calculated precisely, and our student needs much more. This general or this burden of students in Serbia is much higher and it is good that a given methodology can also calculate exactly what the burden is. What else does this indicate? That there is too much burden and that every year we resort to changes in the mandatory number of points. This indicates that colleges, i.e. sections, have not adapted their teaching plan and programme to the law, i.e. the Bologna principles. There are subjects or professors where literature is too large, where it is, for example, he respected the requirement to be a one-month exam, but that's why everything that was taught within the two semesters was compressed into a one-semester exam, so this shows that colleges, or universities and sections didn't adjust. I found one of your statements, Minister, from the beginning of the year, I think it was somewhere in February, when you said that by June 1st you would ask the university to make their teaching-science higher statements about whether they reformed the programs and whether a re-evaluation of student burdens was carried out. They obviously replied that as soon as we were here in September, we resorted to these changes again, or if they were, they couldn't feel it already for this school year, but they could for the next year. One question for you -- what did the teaching and scientific council answer when you asked them if they had adapted and reformed their programs and did they re-evaluate students' burdens? Another member I'm going to talk about, it's a member talking about the number of deadlines tested. In the current law, I think it's Article 90, it says it has six deadlines tested. Here you suggest that number six be deleted, you suggest four, so that's in that basic term. Later, in one article you are talking about that transition from six to four will be gradual, i.e. that this year we will have six, next school years have five, and those there 2014-2015 will be four and that this is some kind of gradual transition. We've invested a very smart and wise amendment, and I'm asking you all to vote for it. I don't know if you'll accept it, but if I make a deal with my colleagues in the Assembly, he'll pass. It is an amendment where we leave the possibility that a higher education institution chooses, or the amendment reads as follows: "at least four, and no more than six test deadlines". Instead of prescribing that now all colleges have to have, or in two years, only four probationary deadlines, we still leave freedom here. What can be seen, we were contacted by professors and deans, that is that in the colleges of social science, they think they have too many six deadlines, that the organisation of that large number of test deadlines disturbs the teaching process. They probably say that based on experience. You also have students, as students, as we were, so they think and manipulate a little bit, so they don't go out on one deadline, skip out, and others, because they know they have a lot of deadlines. But that's what's always been, so it will be when we adopt these changes. However, the colleges of natural sciences seem to have been here, or more of all of this fit them, so they adapted their teaching process to the test deadlines, six of them. So, it wouldn't be good, it'd be a shock to those cathedrals and colleges again, if we were to bring them back to four by this law. We think our amendment is very good. He leaves it to the high school facility to determine whether she needs four or five or six and to arrange it with its statutes. Those who don't fit in with six have four, and those who don't fit four will have five or six. Please vote on our amendment in voting day. There have also been words here that it is good to extend the competence of the National Council for Higher Education. This is the responsibility that the Council will propose to the ministry a national qualification framework for higher education. This is a sign that this job will be done. I can't even remember how many conferences and seminars I was talking about how much Serbia needs a national qualification framework. I know that both the "card one" and the "card two", these are education projects, there's been a lot of talk about it, and there's been an allocation of funds from these projects. I know the ministry has again provided IPA funds for the development of the national qualification framework. His significance was spoken of by other colleagues, so I won't repeat myself. This is a sign that we expect a national qualification framework in due course. However, this national qualification framework is not the only document when it comes to linking education and work and employment, which is lacking in Serbia. Minister, I don't know if you have any problems that people face because our nomenclature of occupation hasn't changed in a very long time. For example, the students of several New Sad universities can't find a job after completing their basic studies, because their profession doesn't exist in any rule on the height of the professional training, as prescribed by the Ministry of Education. It's about students who study English. It's a four-year-old study. However, calling them when they finish is not a professor of English, but a graduate philologist - English. So it's a person who studied English for four years just as long as we used to, so we have a term as a graduate English professor. This group of people has a major problem because they are not found in the nomenclature of occupation or are not refreshed. As far as I know, the Serbian nomenclature is 30 years old. If I'm wrong, you'll tell me I'm wrong, but I didn't hear any changes to that nomenclature. I guess you know there's a lot of people who have problems like that. Here's another situation. It's about directions where basic studies last for three years. For example, a student of psychology, who studies for three years, these are basic studies, then acquires the calling of psychologists, but bacchelor. It's the first degree. A man with that degree, believe it or not, can't work with people. He could be an assistant to some other psychologist or he could be a data assistant. However, psychology requires a lot of research, but it's a person who can't work, that is, those people can't work with people or do the job they wanted to do. Believe them, they get very surprised when they start looking for work, actually when they see what hit them. The former High Education Minister, early this year, said colleges hurried to implement the Bologna process with a system where basic studies lasted three years and masters two years. He also further interpreted that colleges very often organised this way, so that students would later be forced to continue and master studies, so that they could simply come up with an occupation that they could find a job. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2579	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2580	The President-in-Office, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, dear fellow MPs, allow me, at the very beginning of the talk on this important subject, as a man coming from the field of science and education, to do a small analysis, simply give a scan of the situation in education very concisely and precisely, so that, primarily because of the citizens, I try to say why this bill is important, significant and why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support it. In the last quarter of the century, just over 20 years ago, we have seen education in these transition times mostly become a social category, unfortunately because of the situation we live in. The president of the National Educational Council, Mrs Radunovic, told us on the Education Committee that often when someone is out of work to get him into education, to teach there, no matter what qualifications he has, what knowledge he can pass on to those he teaches to, and no matter what knowledge you teach to get out of school. So, with us education is very often a social institution, not an educational institution that serves the production of top-level personnel, qualified personnel, and that is certainly the consequence of the transition situation, not the guilt of this or that minister, this or that ministry, but something that has only brought time. Let me tell the court that education in the former Yugoslavia was in that system, no matter how high it was, it was much more quality than education in transition Serbia, because the staff of a particular job was there, they would finish school, they would get a job, and they would simply do that job, while now very often, and it is not necessary for me to speak especially in front of this parliament, diplomas are not worth God knows how much, both in our own country and abroad. We also have a very common phenomenon that diploma is unusable and represents an empty sheet of paper, because there is no specific qualification behind the diploma. So one of the main problems in Serbia is right now with qualified personnel and it is fair to say that today we do not have enough qualified personnel to fill all the places in the state administration and in the economy. Let me share one more example with you. If all the parties sitting in this House gave their best staff, who speak languages, who know something about law, economy, engineering, there would not be enough people to fill in all the places needed to manage the state successfully, and that is the reason why the parties in this House are not poisoning each other around different personnel solutions. So, let's all propose together the highest quality people who can serve the citizens' interests. Finally, I come to the very core of this bill and to why it matters. In order to offer quality and qualified people, it is necessary for these people to be educated, raised, educated and educated. Here we now come to the heart of this bill, even as we see it from the Social Democratic Party, it is a national qualification framework proposed in Articles 1 and 3, firstly as something that the National Educational Council for Higher Education will propose to the ministry, so that the ministry can then establish the final framework of this national qualification framework. That was also the case on the board, and that is what the minister gave his court. Now it's just for the citizens to figure out what that national qualification framework really is. This word can act robustly, abstractly, unrelated to life. It's simply something that serves that when someone leaves school, from college, they have qualifications needed for a job in this society, not that his diploma is an empty sheet of paper inapplicable in life, to count all the qualifications that he offers, in this case, our higher education. In any event, in the future, we will need to do a national qualification framework for secondary education, above all. So, the aim of the National Qualifications Framework is to connect the world of work, on one side of the economy, and the world of education, on the other side of education. It should be fair to say that we currently have our economy and education separated, that there is a gap with us now between the world of work and the world of education, that very often education floats in the air without its own land. In practice, we need to know in a practical life, and someone talked about it before me, who we're training, what we're schooling for, and what we need that fit for. Otherwise, it will be spent time for the state, personally for this man, and primarily spent funds. Insufficient communication between the economy and education, the world of work and the world of education, leads to the fact that the economy does not declare to education the kind of people it needs. And education on its own isn't too much, so to speak, crazy to ask the economy she needs, which is happening in other more organized states. Let me share one piece of information with you. During all these years of transition, we remained unfulfilled between 20,000 and 30,000 jobs of very specific occupations annually, because someone had not been educated in these occupations, so there is no such thing as a chamber, folksly speaking. For some other professions, we have a whole crowd, half the high school department enrolls two or three profiles, and they're not thinking about where they're going to work and how they're going to serve, not the state, but themselves in terms of finding a specific job. So we have a discrepancy of supply and demand for labour, which has its roots in this lack of communication between education and economy. Finally, to stay with this national qualification framework, which is most interesting to me, I would not want to get involved in the discussion of the number of deadlines tested, about the number of points needed to enter the year, because these opinions are very divided, controversial, and I am afraid that we will not go far away if we go into these technical details and go beyond the essence of this law. So, of course, there is a need for a single and comprehensive qualification framework, not only for higher education, and there is a minister on the board who said that he is preparing a national qualification framework for both secondary schools, especially secondary schools. Again, as some research has been established, 65% of the students in secondary vocational education are learning from programmes of twenty-year-olds, which means that the knowledge they receive is obsolete and inadmissible. It's no one's fault, it's simply an inert system, and it needs to be changed for education to be the engine of the country's development. Education should serve the development of the country, not to get a degree, to find it at home, or to boast about relatives, aunts, aunts, or anyone. So, even in the former Yugoslavia, let me look back, we had very prominent secondary schools, which were built and made an economy of the former Yugoslavia. Instead, today's high school isn't in that class. I'm saying again that it's part of the whole transition and everything we've been through in it. Someone was talking about the job nomenclature. I don't want to repeat myself, and I don't want to repeat the subject, that nomenclature of occupation is, in fact, 30 years old. The fact is, we have to make a whole new nomenclature of occupation and count what interests we need in order for the state, the economy and society to function successfully. Some occupations die, and some other occupations come out on the horizon. So the process of work is dynamic, and I think we have to follow that dynamic. We have two steps ahead of us in this regard, and this law with points, i.e. Articles 1 and 3, helps to implement these steps. The first step is to make an analysis of what profiles and professions we need in order for the state and the economy to function effectively, and the second is that education effectively educates such profiles and such occupations, to provide society with quality and qualified personnel. Finally, what is good in this bill and these members that I have mentioned is that for the first time in the legislation, the Institute of the National Qualifications Framework introduces in education. So we've never had this in law before, no matter what the area of higher education. It is certainly a shift and regardless of what needs to be done comprehensively and the qualification framework and for secondary education, for the entire education system this certainly represents a shift and it is good that the Ministry of Education has seen the need for something like this. Finally, you would even be so free to say, that the creation of a comprehensive national qualification framework is some kind of new Constitution of Serbia, if you want a social constitution, an agreement on what needs an economy and what can give it knowledge? So, a deal on how to use our own mind. So we really have a problem exploiting our own mind, and that's why our brains are going somewhere else. Finally, we of the SDPS, that is the basis of our programme and that is why our party carries a prefix of social democracy, we believe that there are two pillars of society. The first is business, and the second is education. For us, education is very important and we think that education should be practical, have its practical ground and finally have to be connected to life itself. The National Qualifications Framework helps to make something like this happen, a national qualification framework such as some bridge between education and economy, it is like a solid tool in a social organism that in some ways contributes to our society being permanent, strong and efficient. Finally, education and economy should be the two pillars on which our society will rest, because education makes people say so, and business provides them with bread cover while the national qualification framework that has been defined, which is just defined in this bill connects these two pillars. Education is introduced to the country's development function and thus has that function that it has in China, Russia or the United States, simply, all of these countries that are strong and stable invests in education, not to make diplomas, like some useless paper sheets, so they invest in education to make qualified staffs that can serve state and social interests. What's more, big countries can afford to have the luxury of not being smart, being stupid. Because they can always rely on force, or big countries can import brains from smaller countries like ours, like we've been exporting minds for a very long time. But in some ways small countries can't afford the luxury of not using their own brains. So small countries have to in some way motivate everything in that country to be quality and to put it in a function of social interest. Finally, we were also told by Mr. Derrett. I agree with that, we no longer need to be exporters of intelligence, because when you take out your mind, it's just stupidity as a major social resource. So we have to figure out a way to prevent the export of our brains, because that mind of ours is going across the border because it's untapped. If we don't continue to use our brains, there will certainly still be brain drains, certainly some young, smart people will go to Oxford, what's going on with Theodore von Burg and who's going to stop that young, successful man from going after bread somewhere where his knowledge is more cleverly exploited. So again, I repeat, the national qualification framework that I think is the most important point of this bill is something that allows us to motivate the mind that this country has, to count, to make an inventory of the mind that this state has, to sort of organise after that inventory that this mind will be passed on to life and that this mind will contribute to society. Personally, I don't think we have any sense of export. Personally, and of course we from the SDPS as a party that is a socio-democrat organization, we are not satisfied that our main export product is smart. The people we've trained and the state itself is losing everything she's invested in. So again, I would return to it that this national qualification framework is so important and so much of a new and needed institute that we will therefore support this bill. Finally, let me just say a few words, I don't want to be long, I don't want to keep much time, test deadlines, and the points that are needed to enroll the school year. I'm afraid that we develop this culture of spoiledness, the culture of looking through our fingers, that students don't learn that every year they can expect no matter what the situation is, we're going to be able to write it down and we're never going to get to those famous 60 points, as much as they are in the Bologna process. So we didn't want to react to these amendments, we think it's going to be time for this to start in a systematic way. However, if we look at efficiency only, why not offer students as many test deadlines as they need? Six. But then we ask them for maximum results. Let's tell them you have a lot of test deadlines, but in return, gentlemen of the students, meet as many points as prescribed. So on the one hand, we're reducing the number of points needed to sign up, we're looking through our fingers, or so I say we're creating a culture of looking through our fingers, I'm afraid someone's getting used to it, and I'm afraid there won't be any effective schooling again. On the other hand, we're reducing their deadlines, and I know personally when I studied that because of the planning of the manoeuvre, that number of test deadlines is kind of important. But again, I'm saying we didn't want to react to these amendments, and we think it'll be time for this to be systematically arranged and finally stabilised. So you finally know the rules of the game. So, with us, we often change the rules of the game while there's a game going on. If we want efficient, stable education, stable economy, there must be some order. So if education and the economy are two pillars of society, both in one and the other, there should be some order, not to make anarchy, and not to get used to anyone looking through their fingers, because we can now, how can I say, perform and play. But when we approach some more serious integrations where there are clear rules of the game, I'm afraid we'll have to change our own habits. Finally, to conclude, we are certainly for system solutions. So, not for "adhok" solutions in the field of education, science and technological development, for system solutions that will last and that will overcome the mandate of us in the Assembly. That something doesn't always change and it doesn't hold water until the masters leave. So, not only in this area, in many other areas, we have a "ad hoc" solution that looks like plumbers who came to turn water and hold it for a while and then the water finds some way to run out and flood the house again. So we will have to approach the system solution of this problem and many other problems and certainly the SDPS will be a reliable partner in this. Finally, in the end, I would conclude that smart societies live on their minds. Unwise societies and unwise nations live on muscles. So, for the past 20-25 years, we've kind of been living on muscle. If we want to change that, we need to change something about this relationship between education, economy, practice, life and knowledge. Finally, we should not be dreary and pessimistic, we should believe that we have the strength to get out of this lera that we have entered and the opinion of us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, that this bill will contribute, as a step in the right direction, and therefore the SDPS will support it. Thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2581	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2582	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, at the beginning, on behalf of the United Regions of Serbia, I will say that we will support this law. I say this, first of all, because of the students, because I know that those with impatience, with patience and attention expect the minister's decision to propose this law, and then our decision on whether or not we will support the law. The United Regions of Serbia will support this law, because we are aware that this is an attempt to enable students to enroll next year, to enable parents to study their children, by making it easier for the state to support their study with additional funding, and surely this is also a way to support both professors and the academic community in a way and to support both their work and their adaptation to reform processes in a way. These are certainly the reasons why we will support this law, of course with certain reserves and comments, because the fact that what seems to us to be a technical change, like changing the number of points or the number of deadlines, has a whole set of questions behind it, a whole set of issues that can be raised. I am convinced that higher education is a very important segment of education and learning in general, one important segment of life, above all, as a contribution to the personal development of individuals, but as well as a significant contribution to the development of society. I believe that high education, regardless of how often we think it is about young people, who have in some way already formed their personality, therefore I believe that high education is also doing a significantly educational function and determines their future life and future development, so it is possible that higher education and all that is learned in this process can greatly change the individual's personal destiny. It is therefore very important that we carefully consider all changes in the system of higher education and that we all participate actively in it. On the other hand, higher education is something that changes society as a whole and contributes to its development, and I am deeply convinced that a number of issues of our society, a number of questions to which we have not found the best answers, a number of issues that remain open, are issues that can be resolved, above all, by greater investment and better organisation of education and culture systems. So education and culture are the roots of every society, and they're certainly the answer to, as I said a number of questions being asked, for example, in which direction a particular society goes, which is its system of values, where it wants to end up in the end line. That's why I think it takes a little bit, maybe, to expand this topic from when it comes to just making decisions about the number of points or the number of deadlines. We ask the question, what exactly do we want from education in our country and what is it that we want to finance as a system of education in our country? After all, what really is the role of education, or what is the product of education? I'll quote smarter than I am. At the inauguration of President Harvard in 2007, Mrs. Drew Faust defined it this way and thus gave her, practically, vision of the role of the university: "The university is not a question of results in the next quarter, nor even of what students become after graduation. It's about learning that forms a lifetime, learning that conveys millennium heritage, learning that shape the future. The universities commit timelessly, and these investments have a harvest, which we cannot predict, and often cannot be measured, which we are looking for, partly because of it, because it determines what has made us human over the centuries, not just because it can increase our global competence." This is in some way an extension of the role of education in the context of global processes, which often brings the role of education only to the production of knowledge or only to some scientific achievements that will contribute to development, in terms of the development of new technologies. However, it is certainly something that should not be underestimated when we talk about a higher education system. So many believe that knowledge is actually the main element of higher education and that its transfer, improvement and production are the key roles of universities and key roles of higher education, i.e. that knowledge is material, and research and teaching, are practically basic technologies of university work and higher education. Those who are closer to the functional model feel that they are actually focusing on the outcomes of education and what we can do with it, and one of these approaches says that there are, in fact, four functions of higher education and that these are the creation and dissemination of ideology, the formation and selection of ruling elites, the creation of new knowledge and training of bureaucracy. Of course, there is no need to ignore, as I said, economic development directly related to the development of education, because there is no doubt that higher education increases productivity, primarily through the growth of human capital, i.e. the creation of a larger and better educated workforce, but also that knowledge, or scientific discoveries, which, as I have already said, can be sold or transferred directly to the industry and made profits. Knowledge, of course, is seen in European countries as a necessary condition for the development of society, and, of course, not only in European but also in global flows, simply, knowledge is inevitable, to say, goods in today's world. However, higher education of the population has certainly been increased with lower government costs, so there is no doubt that it is a question of whether education is a cost or an investment, there is no doubt that it is an investment in every society, as it simply reduces costs at a higher level. For example, educated people will be smaller users of the health system, for the simple reason that they live healthier and, of course, they are very often, i.e. they are not usually users of the social protection system. Also, one significant aspect of education that is related to both personal and social benefits is the creation, i.e. the reduction of social inequalities and the construction of inclusive societies in which each member has his place. From an individual's point of view, it is certain that, as I have already pointed out, knowledge is something that enriches every single person, but it can, of course, be measurable in other ways, first of all, people who are more educated, have greater profits, have a better chance of being employed. If they are unemployed, at a lower risk of long-term unemployment, as I said they improve their health, including their children's health and social health, intellectual advancement of children and future generations, there is certainly one and the monetary and non-financial benefit for individuals. There are studies that talk about how they valued their higher education or knowledge that was acquired by people who were highly educated. Very often they have defined learning and getting higher education as the expansion of new ideas, fascination, sharing knowledge or enjoyment, satisfaction, curiosity and even strategy against tragedy, opposing the gaps of existence. I think that really all of these roles of acquiring knowledge and higher education speak of it as something that is essential to every society and in which every society, there is no doubt, wants and should invest. Of course, Serbia doesn't need to, and it can't be an exception. However, it is certain that a number of issues are being raised, and above all, it is the question of what we as a state want to finance, which of these aspects we actually want to finance, whether from a small or specific aspect of education, whether we want to finance knowledge as such, which means that we will then invest in all students who want to gain some knowledge or invest in knowledge as an economy, and then we will focus on what a number of colleagues have talked about, which is connecting knowledge with the economy, with industry, with what the needs of new job creations are. I believe that the truth is somewhere in the middle and that a poor society like Serbia should really carefully measure every penny. I agree that we need to think about how many, say, medical students we want to study, because it's very difficult for me personally to know that children who have been studying for six or seven years and who need more training for three, four or five years to become real experts in a medical field, whether after all these efforts we can give them an answer as a society, knowing that there will be no work for them for a long, long time in the health system. Of course, those who have just completed medical studies will find it very difficult to work in some private clinics or offices. I simply think that everything needs to be discussed and that a process should be launched that will allow children to gain new knowledge, but at the same time also define some of the needs of society. One of the big questions that many have already talked about, and I won't talk about it for much longer is certainly and how the Bologna process is being conducted in Serbia and how pleased we can be with its results, how much will it will be in the academic community to be, not until the end, it is indeed one process that many other European countries have failed to implement, so what is the dynamics of its implementation and how motivated the professors are to work seriously in this process. Of course, one of the questions is the attitude of the state and the university in policymaking, and that is, I would say, one complex and quite ungrateful job when it comes to the state, given the fact that we are creating a policy that is essentially being implemented by the academic community. That is why I support the minister to continue in talks with the academic community to define priorities and above all achieve goals. Of course, their place in this process must have students, because they are those, I wouldn't say that their only goal is to create less obligations, but simply when there's no good system, when there's no real response from the state or the right answer to their questions, then surely they have to look for some easier solutions. So, I advocate one process in which all will be partners, a process that will allow the study to be quality and efficient and a process that will allow more students to participate in the higher education process. I believe that the state of Serbia has relatively good answers when it comes to the financial support of students and I believe that it gives even students from lower socio-economic layers a chance to change their fate and to upgrade their education, to enable themselves to work and life that will change the situation they are currently in. What is particularly likely to be a dilemma of all of us is that this proposal for 2012 and 2013 proposes the necessary 48 years and six deadlines for 2013/2014. 50 points and five deadlines for 2014/2015. 60 points and four deadlines. So the number of points increases, and the number of deadlines decreases. It's something that can certainly lead to, if nothing significant changes in the system itself, it's certainly something we'll, I'm afraid, maybe we'll have to change again. So in order for this to happen, in order for us to achieve the number of points to rise, and to reduce the number of deadlines, the quality of working with students must be significantly higher. This is not the case at all colleges now, because, as we've heard from other colleagues, there are teachers who don't want to conduct, they don't just want to hand over a different way, they want to implement reform and the Bologna system. There are teachers who might want to do it, and they're doing it pretty clumsyly. Of course, there is also the third group that does it very well and very effectively, which works very well with students, which is always available to them, which in an interactive process builds on student knowledge, opens up their perspectives and creates researchers and implementers of acquired knowledge. I believe that these thirds must be much more, and those first ones much less, and then this law will be fully able to apply both this year and 2014/2015. the year when applications to students will obviously be at the highest level. I wish a lot of happiness to the students in this process, of course, and to the academic community. I believe that the state and all of us remain open to a process in which, I repeat, we should all participate together to be successful, both for students, individuals, and for all of us as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2583	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2584	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the New Serbia MP group, Mr. Minister, and in this assembly intends to co-operate, but also critical approaches to all the legislative proposals that come into this high house. You recognise the New Serbia parliamentary group by the excellent co-operation we had in the previous term, regardless of what the New Serbia parliamentary group was then in opposition. We really have the utmost respect for all the suggestions made by our parliamentary group that you then respected and applied in the legal solutions. I think we did a lot of good work in education. So, the Educational Council of New Serbia, in co-operation with the Parliament club, dealt with the modern and highly desirable approach to education and education in Serbia as one of the fundamental resources of the future, and so we very carefully considered the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education that are before us today. We are aware that any procedure and changes in the laws dealing with education bring far-reaching consequences and we have responsibly compared the proposed members with those you change in the basic law on higher education that was adopted in 2005, taking into account the social economic relations that were present in Serbia in 2005, when the law was passed and all changes in social economic relations that occurred by 2012, in which we are now and when we need to change several key members. Comparing the experience from 2005 to today, we believe it was necessary to make changes to several other members of the law. For example, in Article 3, where higher education objectives could certainly be achieved with significant ethnic objectives, members of the National Council could be more precise on the transparency of the work of this body. A review of the National Council site will convince us that the information on work is more than modest and insufficient in order to be considered transparent, which is expected of the institution. Members of the National Council may be more precise on the transparency of this body's work, as reviewing the National Council's website will make sure that the information on work is more than modest and insufficient in order to consider this to be transparent, which is expected of the institution. Also, the work of the Accreditation Commission, the accreditation itself, governed by Articles 13 and 16. The Law on Higher Education could, after the experiences you gained as minister in the previous term, be more clear and different. I think we've worked together on that, too. There is serious dissatisfaction with higher education institutions related to this body. In general, the law would have to make these two bodies very important in the arrangement of our higher education more transparent. A forest of higher education institutions with problematic ratings and diplomats in Serbia would thus significantly disintegrate. Otherwise, the devaluation of education and education will come into an unsustainable state of decay. Therefore, we felt that a member of the 41st Law would have to be reorganized and adapted to what our experience had prescribed and imposed, and it was precisely about the issue of work permits to higher education institutions. Because it's not good for the knowledge market to become a paper market. Knowledge is appreciated everywhere in the world, it is sought, it is a competitive and very expensive commodity, if not the most expensive, and paper with a problematic rating is only worth in Serbia in the short term. Labour control is something in this system of higher education, of crucial importance for preserving the quality of higher education, and thus its reputation and recognition outside Serbia. This law hasn't been changed in the past seven years, since it's been in force, and we think this was an opportunity to make it even better after the experiences that are behind us now, and the experience best teaches us everything. Since 2003, since Serbia signed the application of the Bologna Declaration, conflicting opinions and experiences have been created on the new approach to higher education. Serbia is not the exception in having opinions about and against, the vote for and vote against exist everywhere. That's how it is in all 40 countries that apply the same concept. I assume you remember, Mr. Minister, because you were part of a ministerial conference in Budapest and in Vienna in March 2010, when the conference was followed by November protests just against the Bologna Declaration. Before adopting this concept, each country had already had some established form of higher education and a new system had to be applied to that matrix, or the already existing matrix was annulled to apply the new system and it is not easy to reform this system in either country or Serbia. History has shown that resistance is always inevitable and natural, it is the first reaction to the unknown and new, perhaps partly and justifiable. In any case, reform is a process that requires commitment, patience and consistency. The results are slow to see, to add positive and negative, so in any changes to the law that regulates such a sensitive area and such a significant area as education, it needs to be very careful, almost visible, so that no mistakes are made that are made much slower or can not even be corrected, and the consequences leave deep traces, often irreparable. I will quote Mrs. Serbia's Turajlic, who has found, but very true, the problems do not stem from how we have imagined Bologna, but from the fact that, as usual, they have twisted themselves in thought that we would have to do nothing. We made no fish or girl at the end. This is neither Bologna nor our old system, which produced top scientists. You'll admit, I particularly liked this part when she said the old system produced top scientists, because Serbia did have a system of higher education that we can be proud of in the world. We who have completed this education system know how much and where we have been recognized and how much our knowledge in the world has been worth and applied. Perhaps he was overcome in some way, perhaps he should have been modernised, but time would show whether the path of Bologna was right or whether we could have done something on the existing good education system we had. We appreciate the ministry's efforts to make concessions to students, precisely in this proposal that is ahead of us, in line with what is real and necessary in Serbia at this time. So we've assessed the positive change that you've offered in article 7 concerning the threshold of the necessary points, although I think that in two years you'll have the necessary correction again, as it was with the ruling assessment, if Mr. Minister remembers. In the previous term, I was right that we would have to correct the law already during the same term. Of course, it will allow students to keep more children in Serbia at such a difficult time, financed from the budget. We consider Articles 4 and 6 in a way that will also suffer, in due course, the necessary correction and I think that, in that sense, you should consider the amendment tabled by the DSS parliamentary group, which finds a compromise solution and allows one flexibility for higher institutions to meet students, to help them if justified. So it would help not to be a rigid attitude that deprives students of the test deadlines that are very important to them, which they are used to. By bringing amendments, Article 1 and 3. We believe that many of the difficulties that have been followed by the finished students will be resolved in an attempt to obtain a degree in higher education institutions to obtain the desired employment. There are a lot of problems here and it seems to me that so far there has not been enough hearing that they are being resolved or that there has been enough effort in institutions or in the ministry itself to overcome this problem. We're all aware that there were directions, even in the state colleges that enroll students, they end those studies, and then they're nowhere to work with their diplomas, for example. This is the case at the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad, where you have students of comparative literature, who pass the same number of exams and the same exams as students of Yugoslav general literature, i.e. Serbian literature now. Afterwards, they do not exist in the official messenger that schools can hire them at the jobs of teachers or teachers in the education system. Mostly these problems concern those high school institutions that educate educational staff. Since the requirement for such problems to be removed has existed in the ministry for several years, and so far has not responded adequately, students who have addressed these problems have usually been in a position to walk as the people say, from wolves to Novak. It is precisely Articles 1 and 3 that we expect this problem to be effectively solved, and I believe that this amendment to the law that you have offered us, Mr. Minister, is due to this. Dear Ministers, when Edmondo De Amicis is more than a century ago and a half ago – school is the constant movement of humanity, we hope that you will be more often in this home with the desire to remove as much difficulty as possible with which our education and education face daily in life and in practice. Education and education are our intellectual human resource, which is the only one powerful enough to preserve, advance and exploit all other resources that we have and that remain ours. So the only good that we have and we certainly won't sell are our young generations, and the only good that we can do for them and what's best, is to bring them good and quality laws in which they can get the best possible education, which will improve all that remains behind us. I am an MP and a professor of education, by definition, an educator by belonging to the city who has surprised the call of teaching in Serbia and developed a powerful institution. From Somboro, in which the noble Abraham, the son of prose George, by the reputation of Adelung's German school, conceived the first teaching norm in 1778. Also as a student of this most famous, oldest teaching school in the part of Europe, I expect that all together, not only the necessary amendments to the Law on Higher Education, but through constant action in all the laws governing education in Serbia, make Serbia strong. It is true that if we are not hit by good and healthy foundations in basic education, if we have not well built walls of secondary education, then the roof of higher education will be prone to fall. I always said in this high school, when I was talking about education and education, that it wasn't a job, it was a mission. A good teacher is one who makes a student better than himself, like Socrates - Plato, and Plato – Aristotle or Alexander of Macedonia or in our history Dosite – Sima Milatinović Sarajli, and he is the ruler of Negos. Good teachers need good conditions. For good schooling, apart from high standards, good and quality laws are needed that will clearly regulate relations and restore dignity and virtues to missionary calling of educators, at any level they carried out their mission, teaching champions letters or teaching students to acquire knowledge from scientific achievements. What we are trying to show you, Mr. Minister, is the importance of the professional training of those who educate our future. Much less misunderstandings have a society that has a clear relationship with its teachers and teachers, who look after them, allowing them to live by developing in line with the development of their society. There is no truth that best explains what teachers belong to. The teacher teaches as he learns himself, then when he stops learning, he dies in it. And that goes for society. I would say, what I saw in the Polish Fair, the thought of Pope Voittle, which he constantly reminds the Poles of their history and says – a people who forget their history has no future. I would say that, in this case, that we can say this – the people who forget their teachers have no perspective of the future. They must not be forgotten, and we must promote them and it is indeed the right reform of education in Serbia. The New Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the amendment to the Law that you have proposed to us, calling on you to in practice a observed experience at all levels as soon as possible, and we, as a parliamentary group, will try to solve together with you a really big problem that is plagued by that part of education in this system of higher education, which is involved in preparing staff to educate our youngest. I've already said, it's the foundation of this society and the foundation of education. In the missionary task of educators, however, there is something that is part of the job, and of which, as well as in any master's work, which should be carried out to virtuosity and perfection, depends on the success of the nation's education and enlightenment, and of course, depends on this very higher education. Again, I say that for someone who comes from the city and from the school who is the cradle of teaching in Serbia, I feel ashamed that at this moment Serbia is numbering a quarter of millions of those who sign their thumbs, almost a million and a half of those who never finish primary school and we are therefore among the most illiterate people in the region, although we have had more than half a century of primary education required. I think this is a balance that Vuk Karadzic would never forgive us. Mr. Minister, you are the head of a ministry that is more or less relevant to every home in Serbia, directly or indirectly. I know that in this very high home two years ago, I told you that you have a chance to remain remembered as Minister of Education, because we are a people who remember the finance ministers and ministers of enlightenment, but really only when they rise above the moment and leave in the business that will outlive them. Make sure you're remembered. You really have a chance to make it happen, because there's no more terrible death than human oblivion. Try to defeat him, for you know how Euripid said: never tire of giving to your country. We think that in the field of enlightenment and education the most we can give, the most it will return to us because it is the most important resource and perhaps the only one we will not sell out, no matter how the crisis hits us, is exactly the resource of education. In New Serbia's MPs, you will have responsible critics and non-reserved associates, and we expect that together in the interest of education, in the interest of the future, we will decide the administration and these amendments to the Law that are before us, when the day comes to analyse the amendments as well. So I ask you to take a fair and objective look at every amendment of every parliamentary group, because there are solutions that will make us more satisfied and useful at this moment and generation that concerns us and those of us who expect much from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2585	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2586	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning as a representative of the SPS, I would like to say, to point out, and in consultation with the JS and PUPS MPs, that the MPs of our coalition will support this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. So, this law has been on the agenda since 2005, and since 2008, since the Minister of Honor, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, we have also had changes and additions that we have discussed here, but in desire and with the intention of improving legal provisions in favour of what will be more functional and more beneficial for the educational process in higher education institutions and in favour of what is the process of education for our students. Of course, here we look at these issues that are now on the agenda in one broad context, but I agree that education is one of the pillars of society. However, we cannot conclude that it is the generator of all of the problems that we have today in what is our whole society, the functioning of our political, economic, cultural and all of what are other systems and many areas. Of course, we must be aware that education is also part of what our society is and that many of what is today an environment in our country and in our society is connected and influenced. Education, education and all that is not under the glass bell so that we can idealize it and consider it a key area, which in one way or another will solve many of the problems that we have today. This is really related to one another, and that is why we need to be realistic and have a certain relativity and one moderation in concluding certain things that we are talking about. We often mention here in discussions going abroad to our students, and often we say that our education is inefficient, perhaps unquality and missing in many of its segments. Of course, we MPs of the SPS Group, including JS and PUPS, do not idealise what education is today in Serbia, but we should also remind that these students who go abroad and who are wanted, so to speak, in many Western European countries, and also in America, would not go away if they were not worthy of attention. They have certainly achieved some range in their education, thanks to what the education process is here in Serbia today. Of course, on the other hand, it should be said and reminded that we have approached the Bologna process and then started a reform through the adoption of a new Higher Education Act in 2005, with the aim of integrating our higher education into the European educational space, as well as increasing the international competence of European higher education institutions, while preserving what our specificities are on the language, cultural and other agenda. The adoption of the Law on Higher Education launched a reform of the system of higher education, whose main objectives were to increase efficiency, increase competitiveness, increase the quality of education, increase efficiency and increase the compatibility of higher education with what is the European educational process, which is very important. Today, connecting these processes, these standards in the wider area, is very important, because we today have a great communication and in the field of knowledge, and that is simply really necessary. In particular, when we talk about these amendments to the Higher Education Act, which we have here in front of us, we certainly support it. We see two important segments here, or a corps of questions. One question, of course, is what is the national qualification framework for the level of higher education, which was here. It is, I would agree with some representatives of parliamentary groups, one of the key things that is being processed here in this law and that there should be an accent and that, in fact, one moment that opens, I would say, both ambitiously and with great expectations of results in this area in the next period. The National Qualifications Framework is very important and should be defined a little bit and explained what it really means. We've had some discussions and words about it here. But it won't be for the sake of our citizens to repeat that the national qualification framework defines, when it comes to higher education, what a student needs to know, what he needs to understand and what he can do based on the qualifications he has acquired. That's what's elemental. That is, the national qualification framework defines what learning outcomes are expected of each qualification. It also shows the mutual relationship between qualifications in the education system, i.e. the passivity between these qualifications. These basic and elemental relations, which I have said here, are the basis and key of what we should do in one quality way in the next period, considering that this is binding on us - what is the signing of the Bologna Declaration on the one hand, and on the other hand, and the obligation to be part of this European educational process in an adequate way in the next period, i.e. the space to which we seek. When we liken this and when we make this compatibility between that space in a narrow sense, on the ground of Serbia and European space, we do it in this way, then we can talk about one progress in the area of higher education, which will thus be closer to what should be the outcomes of learning and the results in studies and the completion of studies here in Serbia, by realizing that these qualifications, when acquired, can be applied here, both here in Serbia, in the field of work, but not just material production, because here is often talked about economy and economy, etc., but also in all areas, because there are many other areas that are also important for further upgrade. Also, these qualifications will be such that they can be relevant, so to speak, to engage in the process of working in a wider space and in Europe itself, as well as outside Europe. This is a very crucial moment through what we have in Article 1, where point 14a is proposed, in Article 11. – The National Council for Higher Education proposes to the Ministry a national qualification framework for higher education. We have in Article 3 that the ministry establishes a national qualification framework for higher education. In this way we now have a new topic, a new task, a new legal framework that gives us the opportunity to work out all these issues in an adequate way, and thus, and to improve what should be the outcome of education in the area of higher education, in order to bring about a future in this area. The second set of questions certainly refers to what is the creation of better conditions, so to speak, in line with what is today's level of higher education. Our ambitions in this area were too high in 2005, when we set the condition of 60 points for enrollment in the next school year. I wouldn't say that that's when the biller misjudged or misjudged, but there was one ambition in that direction. Now, let me do one dipression. The MPs, or parliamentary groups and parties who participated in the adoption of the 2005 Law and several subsequent amendments to the Law on Higher Education. At a given time, they mainly participated in the adoption of this and voted in favour of this law or for these amendments and amendments and went in that direction. Some firm and rigid denial of these amendments and additions to this law I think it is not natural and is not to expect from anyone in this House, because all of us, more or less, have participated in what is actually the law and what is the matter of this law or of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. Of course, the criticisms addressed, I don't think they are such that they disqualify the current efforts of the minister and his associates, as well as the entire ministry on this plan. I think that all discussions, of course, can be very useful in general, not extreme, etc. They can be useful, and certainly there are those discussions that praise the work of our ministry in the last four or five years, even now, in what is the effort to improve a law that is very important in the field of education. After all, we expect new education laws, which means that this area is being monitored, but only the Ministry of Self cannot be responsible for many problems, as I said at the beginning, which appear today in society or in the economy, or in culture and in other areas. I would also underline this that the academic community, through what the university thinks, through the opinion of student conferences, which should be given legal personality status, agrees with the proposed changes that we have here in this law. When it comes to, for example, reducing the number of deadlines for exams on a particular scale, etc., and also agree with what is very important, which is that the increase, as I say, through adoption and through the realization of a certain number of points, which qualify students for enrolment in the next school year, continues to go gradually. So, for example, this school year 2012-2013 is enough for the entry of 48 points, so that for the next school year 2013 and 2014 there will be enough 50 points and only 60 points from 2014 and 2015. Here's the question - what do we really want? We can't go through a line of less resistance, not as a society, not as a profession, not as an education, and maybe we're taking that line of less resistance that's natural and which, of course, often appears in a number of students, doesn't generalize, that with as little trouble as possible, so to say the results, with a smaller threshold, so to speak, progresses further and enrolls the next school year. Here we must as a system, so to speak, even through the legal basis, go in this direction by raising that level, creating consciousness, so to speak, in public, but also among students, of course and among teachers, among teachers, to slowly raise that threshold and to think in a different way about what is raising the quality of work in the field of education. Of course, we as an SPS parliamentary group, don't think it's just a problem in students and that they're the only ones who are guilty of that tendency to keep that threshold as low as possible, etc. I would also agree with that fact that we at universities today have a different approach to what is the realization of the Bologna process. So we absolutely respect the autonomy of the university, but this autonomy of the university certainly does not mean the freedom of improvising certain obligations that we have ahead of us, specifically through the signing of our country and the acceptance of the Bologna Declaration, through what we aim to enter the European educational process, through the imitation of a lot of what needs to be at the level of what is there...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2587	Mr. Mihaylovich, just to let you know, the moment your microphone went off, you were talking for six and a half minutes and that time was wiped out, so the time started again, I want to tell you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2588	I'll finish anyway, but let me ask you to follow in the future, if someone turned off the microphone, that warning you were obliged to give me back then. So, I conclude, I hope I've been clear enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2589	I'm sorry, Mr. Mihajlovic, but I don't see your microphone from here, because Mr. Obradovic is sitting there, so I can't exactly have all the microphones involved in seeing in the O.R., I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2590	You can see the microphone, but you can hear the effects of that microphone. It's different things. So I will finish by saying that the SPS-Single Serbia and PUPS parliamentary group will support this law and we support further reforms and further improvements in other education laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2591	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2592	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we have a really small law ahead of us, but you can see in the principle debate that colleagues have treated the topic of higher education very widely. I would say that it is an important topic, obviously for parliament, and this speaks about the need for us here in parliament to talk as soon as possible about all aspects of the reform of the higher education process. I believe that there will be opportunities when we talk about the strategy of improving higher education. However, I will concentrate only on this few members, which are subject to changes, so the Law on Higher Education, although I have listened with attention to all my colleagues, understand why they have set their debate so broadly today. So our country, our higher education system, is one of the Bologna Process, or, as we define today, is part of the European high education area, for nine years. If so, then we at the Democratic Party MPs' club expected the minister to explain the changes of these few members of the law to give more information about how the Bologna process is progressing, what are the results so far, what are the problems. Because in the presentations of some colleagues, I believe that they are right to make such findings. So there is a feeling in the public that there are even obstructions of the success of this process, that it would be important for us today to have more of that information and that we can hear how far away from the EU concept that in the next decade, so in 2020, one of the responses to ageing challenges of the population is precisely greater participation of the population in higher education and especially in the lifelong learning process. So where are we in the development of such an approach to higher education in Serbia? Also, for us at the Democratic Party, it is very important that we progress in the Bologna process and because of the progress of the universities themselves, i.e. the positioning of Serbian universities at the European international level and the improvement of their competitiveness. If both the political public and the professional public were to be present, that awareness that the Bologna process, as one of the goals, has also been to raise the competitiveness of our universities, our universities, I think that people would think differently about this mobility of young people, students who go to other university centres in Europe to improve, then they would understand that the goal of the Bologna process is to become part of the European higher education space and to have more students from European cities at our universities and universities. This is the goal of this process in which we all participate. I don't know if we understand that, but we clearly laminate over the fact that young people are leaving Serbia in search of quality education. So we didn't have that kind of analysis and I think it's necessary. We have really very little changes to the Law on Higher Education. They can be characterized, these few members who are changing, and that they are technical-formal character, because in fact we now specify and say through the amendments to the law that the National Council of Higher Education will propose a national framework and qualifications for the level of higher education to the ministry, as if the whole story of the national qualification framework for the level of higher education, that the problem was that it was not known who was responsible. If that was the problem, great, we solved it, and we expect to get to this important document for higher education very quickly. Also, some changes are technical, not controversial. Certainly, the Student Conference of the University of Serbia and the Student Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies should receive legal personality status and participate in international exchange and international projects, and that cannot be disputed either. Then we have two other members of the law that seem to be technical, but we see that through the amendments these two laws we are actually covering or matching the law with reality, i.e. by law we are covering the bad consequences, that is, the consequences of truly lagging out reforms of higher education, because, they all said, our response to the ineffectiveness of studying in Serbia is to reduce the number of points for transition in the coming year of study. I think we just need to talk about it openly. It is not disputed to resolve this issue in this way. The reasons why we in the MPs' club support such a solution is because the cost of studying for our poor families is a great cost and if we go over this expenditure to their burden, then the unhappi statistics, that in Serbia only 12% of citizens have more and higher education, will really not change for another number of years. We have nothing against such a solution, but we really think that the last moment is for the ministry and the competent authorities, parliament and the civil sector to make one serious analysis of why study efficiency is lacking and, if the Bologna process is in place, as long as it has arrived in adapting the programme to the different role of professors in the educational process, what about adapting textbooks and all other elements that can affect the effectiveness of study. Unfortunately, there's obviously no serious movement here, and that's where we have this solution. If that's the case, we think it's a hasty solution to cut the number of test deadlines, and we think it would be much more rational to wait one or two school years, to see if some shifts have been made, and then yes, by raising the number of entry points in the next year, we're going to cut the test deadlines. So that's how we evaluate these little laws changes. They're seemingly small, but they're essentially saying that we have a serious stalemate in higher education reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2593	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2594	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm going to start with what you said on the board today, that we're fixing these amendments to the law something that we've noticed isn't good enough. It's just fine and it's always the way to do it, but the only difficult situation is that every autumn we see that something is not good and usually from the same legal ops, and that's what should be in the law that was passed in 2005-2006. year, defined by 60 points as a condition of final success, final efficiency, defined passability, or by formerly, much condemned, the Law on the University, where it was known that the complete passability was when all exams were passed, and rationally it was established in a group of community colleges which can be passed exactly in the following year, and then they lay down, the year listened undisturbed and in no way was a bad solution. The passing wasn't good at the time, and we see now in this official part of the report twenty percent pass-by with 60 points, if you look at the strata which years of study, because you've practically already come across a generation of patients, even in integrated studies, or at the end, those who last six years, but this year should be graduates, with integrated studies, like, say, medical college, we should already have a series of tangible data on proportionate efficiency year by year. Why is this important in the context of what is being offered here? Here one of the things offered is to shorten the number of points and change the number of test deadlines. We discussed it, of course, and on the board. Opinions are divided. As far as SNS is concerned, of course, we will support this law, because, first of all, it helps students, because students who are learning from Bologna are not guilty of anything, because instead of them, they have estimated that Bologna and the way of studying and otherwise the law, the modality, the recommendations, which were not on the agenda of mandatory recommendations for the EU, was adopted, somewhere the minister signed and we continued to implement it. Students were not to blame, they expected to get a better pass and a simpler way to learn. Procedurally, maybe it is somewhere in some colleges. Somewhere now instead of two-semesters, maybe they've turned the bulk objects into one-semester objects. They carry a proportional number of points. I don't know if your points are just so divided that the students will leave for that year when there are 50 points or not. I see that these years in 2009 shifts we went to 42, 48, so 54 was a recommendation, and now we've changed it to 50 again. What I particularly respect and, in a critical sense, is the fact that you, as you said on the board, have reached that agreement with the university community and with the student organisation. What does that leave for parole as an inquiry? It's in the nature of things two conflicted institutions. The students are pleased at this hour to be given the opportunity to pass with fewer points. I don't know how happy they are with the downturn, which is justifying, I'll probably remember to explain that, too. On the other hand, rectors and deans are once again another interested group, whose law, Bologna as a declarative approach to autonomy, is the autonomy of every kind, except for the autonomy that leads to the real improvement of studies, has given them the right to be elected within, not to say the circle, and somewhere it looks like it. He's proposing bigger, he's elected by the Senate, and the state doesn't decide on the dean's election. Then it is illusory that every year when the minister determines registration quotas and tuition prices, which move to Belgrade University of 1,000 to 3,000 euros, and the price of the applications themselves, that paper white they receive with an informer, somewhere between three and 12 thousand, as at which college. So, the free minister pleads for colleges, deans not to raise tuitions, and in some ways they less – they don't raise them anymore, except for those who really had a lower raise than others and you put extra burden on your parents. So it's one of the weaknesses of autonomy that is reduced to the level of such a kind of weakness that can't be influenced by who's the founder of the university in any way. What else can't be affected, and yet it can prove to be a weakness of the system in segments that are only recognizable to students, give me a lower number of points and give me a larger number of test deadlines. Those kids see it that way. With these kids, I'm less constantly in touch and, of course, bypass ways to make exams as efficient as possible. In this, colleges go to the point of believing or not, to buy some kind of electronic device to interfere with cell phones, to get those kids to pass those tests. Now we're talking about tests and deadlines. Come on, let's mention it as some kind of weakness of the system. I'm not saying that there's an old system of education left, and it's started with tests as the only legitimate way, these modules that run that variant, you take tests, you give colloquiumes, you write seminars, and in the end you passed the exam without being on your oral exam. So they would use the old system of these bugs and listening devices to fill out the tests. Tests aren't evidence of learning. A nice colleague from Novi Sad said today, they're for recognition, they're for basic, professional, professional, elemental, to say the information the student provides about himself. Today they became in some schools of medical professions, in preclinicals, the basic way of getting points, passing exams. Then such a student comes to a higher level of study where it is necessary to enter into a verbal communication with the interrogator, with a patient, although they have introduced various objects as surrogates, as a substitute for something that existed earlier, the skills of communication, students are no longer able to discern the important from the irrelevant, the exams are hard to deal with because they are from the high school express, from the high school they only learn all night long, quickly master tests, sometimes hang on the site, and children learn it. What obligation do we have to write exclusively on Cyrillic, that only a teacher has to teach by playing video bim, that he has to hang his lectures on the site, so that students learn from it? What's with the commitment? And where's the professor's autonomy, the teacher's producer? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why does the dean's election in some colleges respect the rule of secret voting? The rule comes from the initiative of the Department, therefore, from basic communication. Why somewhere professors, it's enough that not even regular and extraordinary, and somewhere there must be only those who have the conditions to do mentoring work. Even emergency professors to get into the council, organs that decide in college. Such heterogeneity of approach is due to this broad-ranging autonomy, the very framework of the given right, the legal right to form sublegal acts and statutes that verify the university. You know, it used to be the ministry that reviewed the statutes, so in one of the statutes of the university that I managed to find, it doesn't say an unlimited duration of the Dean's term. Can you imagine if it wasn't there? It's what the university adopted, it's past, it's assuming it's in law, but it's impossible that it's not in the statutes. So these are some weaknesses that can directly trigger the causes, weaknesses, of this kind of student passing despite the highly favored learning required of these children. Indeed, children have to work very hard to achieve those 60 points, or 48. What's another phenomenon? Teachers to get out of it. The first of their own non-disclosures in a very complicated organization of the study process butchered their subjects, entered various professional areas, not rare interventions that each other's professor overlapped, offered each other, just changed titles of their thematic units. Many of these cases have become election subjects for students. Then students get lost in so many different electoral items, in communications, whether they choose this or that, and the whole galatios with a given large range of independence in decision-making at that level cost a lot. The second or third, or who knows which, and I often say when I'm talking about it, is the non-compliance of teaching plans and programs within the same colleges. So the same fields, same areas. The medical college, with its plan and programme in Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, does not have the same subjects in the first year of the study. All of us sitting here, possibly wrong that there's some bologna here, we're all done with the old program. At the time I studied in all of Yugoslavia, the book was common, so the first year of medicine had precisely certain items. There's academic mobility, you could have been Belgrade, Sarajevo, Zagreb and vice versa, from, of course, not in the first and not in the fifth year, but to move when you want to. Today academic mobility, although Bologna promotes this as a basic fact principle for students, is almost gone. Theoretically, they gave three percent there so you could come change college, but sometimes you won't be able to because you'll avoid that one subject. You learn, say, in the third year in Novi Sad, in Kragujevac, in the fourth year you learn. When you pass in Novi Sad, you won't have 60 points, like in Kragujevac. I'm giving an example, this isn't absolutely true, but I know there are such things. With skillful manipulation, a student can avoid any of the classes being studied or passed and gain 60 points. He can't have any more points in that year. That object somewhere, which is skipped, let's say nuclear medicine, which I know it is, can't be compensated as an electoral item on someone else. Even a student won't choose. He's picking out a town he's going to study in. So, a lot of things. The thing was very simple – college communities establish unique plans and programmes. The point is, there's no dilemma. What are the cones doing here? University conferences with a variety of colleges of different interests? No way. It's just that some actual mechanisms that existed, that wouldn't bother or interfere with even this Bologna, let them carry out the smell of Bologna through our entire laws, no one will object to it, but let what can be done to students as a concession, professors of adventure, progress in the profession be reflected. Look, some respect the recommendations, the minimum, given by the National Educational Council, some don't. Some have returned to the general recommendations made by the law, very descriptive. Some total score points that teachers should have is about seven, about three for the same calling. Why is that? Why are we creating a hiatus, a void, in the teaching frame? Is this how we preferably create only a certain number of people who are going to take big money for doctoral studies, they are very expensively paid? It's been a while since the funds, the sizzlings, paid for the expenses and the master's and the doctor's. It's gone. The students in the pocket, and only if they have an interest in the project or university, again, in a preferential personal or political way, in a candidate's education in doctoral studies. It was created, the class of the likes was sequestered, and the likeness was entered by entering in step and step. In time and before this law was entered into that similarity, but it was again decided by this or someone's decision, not to be a mentor, not to be a mentor, not to be in commissions and to be in a state that because you're not a mentor, and you're a regular teacher, you're not a member of the election council. Now, it's never been, but in some colleges of self-will, isolated circles, they're able to bring such a statute in which they won't be. Of course, the law did not deal with it because the law in general touched the rules. So when we talk about reforming the law, I mean that the mass of things should succumb to reform, that someone in charge of quality assessment, evaluations of teaching, read a little more carefully, take a little walk and survey students, not just those who wait for them at accreditation, these are the staff of the dean, who wait for you when you're credentials, for each department exactly the chosen man who knows the questions in advance that will be and the answers that will be given and the accreditation goes away. The essence is pushed far behind and we don't know much about it, but those who give accreditation. Let's say accreditation, an accredited college that can get 100 students in, he gets 200 and works two shifts. At the same time architecture, Legal issues space and works with 240 students in one shift. Then how is that possible? How are these conditions for accreditation the same and how this commission, and those people out there with these huge salaries on those commissions, that's how they accept or cheat them and get accreditation, and some others where it's justifiable they don't get it? It's just that sometimes there's a question of what it's really about and where the way out of such solutions is. This law and earlier amendments to the law, which positively, the minister was also in the past term, speaks of the minister's will to try to help where we can. We also moved the term for the old master's degree, for the students of 2015. We can't blame the Minister now as being responsible, and by law, which we are now discussing, it is said that the National Council for Higher Education recognises, monitors, chases, targets, checks, gives suggestions to the Minister what in the program to change. Now, on the other hand, the ministry must be meeting them, and here's some paper that says that the ministry is trying to make them happy for Bologna. It will be on the 10th anniversary of the Bologne Process in Serbia, and here everyone even fire fighters of Bologna by definition, because they brought her up for it. At the time it was being brought, I was declared to the party I belonged to against, we asked the minister who defended it from coming out, those who supported it in a different way to come out, to virtually show, in the case of a college, what modules look like, what it looks like to get points, what it looks like to transmit, etc. Here, we now have something that will cost sure, because here they are about to be invited lovers of tiny animals and taxi services, who is all invited to participate in this promotion of the decade of the Bologna Process. Now I'm raising it to the pedestal of the highest success of the state, because we've entered one piece of paper, into one decision in one mile, European miles of educational space, where the bearers of such ideas themselves already show doubts whether in themselves such a choice is, in itself, a Bolognan idea, that imagination, that idea, whether it's good or not. We'll give some money to celebrate, more or less, let it be celebrated, let it mate and spend on it. But let him bring us a revision of this law, which by many grounds, except for how many students will have deadlines and exams is not good to the end. We'll be back on schedule. In those modules, look out, there's a very difficult college that half the studies conduct through modules, through it, slowly, slowly, from partial, partial, partial and each week the children take tests. What is his integrated knowledge in line with the recommendations already made by the Council and the ministry should adopt. That's what's extended to two points one and three. Now in these recommendations on titles there are, let's say, very interesting things, and I wonder how a student who now studies in such a segmental way and does something on a weekly basis, and it's a final assessment, can have the capacity to, say, be able to, say, describe from what he gets from the decryption degree and what goes along with a degree, that they're able to apply their knowledge, understanding in a way that points to professional approach, business or knowledge, which has the ability and most often shows, so that's terrible. You've got a call, you've got a doctor to write to, and so on. What it says here was that when we were in our university, we brought educational results about our subjects. What's the outcome of emergency medicine? What is the outcome of the study of the subject of internal medicine? Now, now this, someone else wrote a overlap as some sort of essential event and it's actually something that's going to go as such an addition to a diploma and it's not going to give this to the labour market. Well, whoever employer doesn't ask you what your knowledge is, he can understand who someone works, not all doctors, not university professors, come here and school for a machine engineer or he gets some private who doesn't know who the real one is -- turbines, and now he's gonna read -- well, you're writing this, you're mine, you're if you know you're working in Europe. If you understand your job, you're my frame, you want to work at my place, and we're gonna put this on a big bell, and we're gonna do another job that we're generally not looking for, but we're in the middle of nowhere and we can't go back. Now we can fix it, because Bologna, even in that final sentence, gives us the right declaration, that in proportion to our traditions and customs, we adapt the education system. We had a phenomenal education system. He didn't miss anything. It wasn't written by politicians. No politicians wrote to biochemistry. They don't write it now, but biochemistry in many places and there isn't one within the reform, which was created to reduce some others, get places up to 60, as it used to be in happy times. There may be a lot of such changes, I don't see a body that the body is able to solve, and look at just how many National Councils, so his commissions, so he seduces, so on and so on. The other bodies we pay, which we choose in Parliament or from the government or who choose themselves as their own auxiliary bodies, fail to get out of the vicious circle of some uninterrupted need to do something much better than things that may actually need to be changed in some segments. The point of education is that the professor follows new knowledge, that he goes one step further, that he always brings an affirmative new student, that he accepts knowledge and to the extent that he can and actively participates. The children are preparing for class today to conduct active dialogues with the professor after the lecture and to assess it. It's brought by Bologna, it's worse than high school, nerd learning. They learn and read in advance, poor, for he will give in front, and after that, he will ask today or tomorrow. And then, of course, with quick learning mechanism, you can't acquire the qualities that qualifications in this descriptive part of offer, because they learn quickly, they'll quickly forget, they can't have permanent engrams, but it's someone else, it's pedagogues, it's someone more competent, not a professor who's more in politics than at the cathedral, who can speak. As a party, we open this issue in simply some uninterrupted continuity of the need for changes with which we have come to the citizens, and finally the need to change many laws that have not shown their purpose in the way they wanted and where there are obvious and reference recognitions and the Minister himself, that some of this is not right. I thank you, this is the end, but I've just opened up aspects to think about what else to change, and everything to stay around Bologna, which is called Bologna, but to change it to a lawful extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2595	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2596	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me say, after this first round of talks on the draft law on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, let me say a few words or try to answer the questions that have been asked. I am pleased that almost all the parliamentary groups have participated in the debate on this law, and in itself it says how much all the parliamentary groups attach importance to the subject and general, high education. I've heard a lot of very interesting findings, there were questions, and I think there's a duty to answer some of them. You'll all agree, it's a very, very complex subject and the fact is that what we decided in 2003, we defined ourselves to be part, then, of the Bologna Process, so what everyone now calls in Europe is creating a space of higher education, because in this area there are 47 countries, now 47, 27 EU member states and others that are not, one giant, to say, a space with a large number of people. The most interesting thing in the whole story is that this document is not a binding character, and that all countries have found their interest in being part of this process, because no one wanted to stay on the sidelines, no one wanted to be on the other side of the agenda compared to the changes made in the higher education area, and no one wanted to put their citizens in a position that they could not cooperate with colleagues from other countries, use their knowledge or transfer their knowledge to others. Simply, there is one mobility and students and teachers and staff, that there is the possibility of transferring knowledge from country to country and thus creating a basis for greater and co-operation between higher-school institutions. We don't need to hide at all, things didn't go well with us, that's why we're changing the law. If you remember, 2008, 2009, for these colleagues and colleagues who, let me say, are a little longer here, I know, because it was my first job as a minister in that term, I was talking about amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, and then, I think, 37 points were, so we suggested that it be 42, and during the time we talked in the Assembly, in that second building of this esteemed House, some students were out there, and they were saying, "Don't change our conditions during our studies." If we hadn't changed the terms, they wouldn't have entered the year, and that's one paradox of life that exists, that whatever you do, someone's going to evaluate it positively, or someone's going to evaluate it negatively. If we don't change this law now, the fact is – the condition will be 60 points. You've seen, I've told you what a percentage of the passing rate at the University of Belgrade, I know that other universities are similar situations, and now the logical question is whether we should, I think, not ask this question at all, because the answer is yes, but it's quite logical that we listen to the voice of the academic community, it's quite logical, both the professor and the students. In this case, there is their agreement on the proposed changes. Why? These four years, students have been rebelling, as a rule, for two reasons. One was the number of points needed to enroll. The second one was a financing issue. You know, inside this first there was consent almost everyone. Within the second question, students differ. Why? Compared to the field they're studying, the colleges they've chosen and what's going on at that college. In order to be even clearer and to understand me, since I've talked about this several times, the examples work, in natural colleges there's almost no problem of that kind. Why? Compared to the number of students the state determines will finance in the course of the year, the number of self-financing students is much smaller. The example works, if 450 is financed in Machine, and 200 is self-financed, this 100% plus 20% can be entered next year. You can figure out for yourself that's 450 plus 90 and that's 540. It's almost impossible for all 650 to give a condition for next year and have problems. However, at several social colleges, right now I know what the list of those colleges or high schools is, there is a completely different situation. The state finances 100-150 students, and those within the quota of self-financed students register 200, 300, 400, 500, and then the pressure on the second year is terribly high and, of course, there is no room for everything and then the solution is sought at the state. At that time, it is not the question of those students whether the study regime is shaped in the right way and the question of the number of points or the question of the number of deadlines, but whether finance is the main problem. For the past two years, we've solved this problem together with the colleges. I can tell you that we had a really big support, I thank them, in colleges that are part of their expenses, because tuition is something that is also part of the university's income, spent on these purposes to get students who are weaker material, and have a good average, not to pay for studies besides what the state has provided and that the rest of them pay less. I must tell you that in this document, called the Education Strategy, and I promised my colleague Banovic on the board, this will be the subject of at least public reading of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government will adopt it and then we will offer to those MPs who want it on the board. We set here some goals that we would like in the years to come to achieve. We would also like to increase student coverage and increase the number of students that would be the subject of state funding, but in what way? That, on the one hand, you know exactly what will be the ones that are financed 100%, and then you make one leprechaun for the others, to increase the coverage, that those who have a better average of studies that they pay 5 or 10-15-20 percent, and that have a weaker average that they participate in study costs, to make one beauty, but to make the coverage bigger. Why? Because we have a limited amount of money and we have to use that money the right way. We are often criticised to produce, say, experts who can't find a job. That, on the one hand, is true, but, on the other hand, the logical question is, what is the function of education, is the function of education created by a man who has a quality education or is at the same time looking for a job? The search for a job belongs, you'll admit it, and someone else. The point is, is the knowledge acquired during the study is the knowledge needed by the state in different areas and is there co-operation between the state, in this case the university, college and economy, labour markets? This question that Snow White's colleague asked is quite logical – that the line needs so many doctors? I've heard that question from a previous fellow minister, but I have to tell you, I told him, so I'm telling you in public that none of the medical schools have asked that question that way. On the contrary, all medical schools, universities in Serbia think they should enroll so many students, then the university takes a stand on that. It would at least be logical for the department to say we may need or do not need so many students, but the profile of this and that in line with the state of the health system and what are the direct needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't always have that data until the end and what we were doing, which is perfectly logical. You're talking to colleges, and at university level, you're fixing those quotas. We talk to the labour market, we talk to chambers, we call employers, and we watch how much material opportunities we have, and then we reduce the number of these wishes, or the number of quotas, and we try to enable universities to have working conditions, and on the other hand, the more we go out to meet students and their wishes. Often, one factor is neglected. No offense to anyone who participated in the debate today, I think we all started from me, but compared to other colleagues, we neglected one very important factor of the whole process of education, so I'm talking from me, and then everyone else, we forgot to talk about learning. Dear colleagues and colleagues, nothing can be obtained and acquired without learning. We talk about deadlines and points all the time, and nobody talks about learning. There's nothing without learning. You know how, we're talking about a system from some years ago. Now those people who finished that system years ago were leading people in colleges, universities in Serbia. There is the opinion of the majority that this system was good, but it is not said that and how much work and learning should be done to obtain that knowledge that could be applied and what is considered relevant in the labour market. I'm telling you this because the process is very complex. For example, we also had public stands where we invited employers to talk about their needs. You know, they talk – you don't create quality personnel in the education system that need businesses and then a colleague from the audience shows up and says to a leading businessman – excuse me, do you know what an addition to a diploma is and, of course, puts him in a situation so he doesn't know how to respond to a degree's addendum. This paradox, spoken of by fellow Miletic, that, on the one hand, it is claimed that we do not have quality education and, on the other hand, that if our people go beyond Serbia's borders that education and how they use it and then one logical question is asked – is it not good for us or is it not good at all? I guess it's not good for us, because for someone else it obviously is, because it gets an expert, let's just say, for free. We're teaching him, and he's using him, and he doesn't mind the level of knowledge, competence and skills and everything else that he owns, because unlike us who may sometimes consider the learning process finished when you graduate from college, in the world he's learning his whole life now. The end of one level of learning is actually just the beginning of another level. This is one situation that may not be addressed enough. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, along with the entire academic community, we have tried to find an answer to the situation in which we are now. I'll tell you right now, I think my colleague Banovic asked me, and in other countries, it's not pink, but of course everyone interprets it in their own way. I think my colleague Đeric mentioned the protests. I was in Vienna, and as a citizen, I went to participate, to be present for these protests. I have seen, there have been stories of free borders and free funding and something else that is not the subject of higher education, but remains part of these protests, but the bottom line is that each country has its own specificities. Unlike the situation where the conferences were held every two years to make one recapitulation of what was done, it was now moved in three years. The next conference will be in 2015 just to give enough time for countries within their systems to edit things in a way that they are part of this general system of values, and again to respect their specificities, because the document called Bologna often ignores sentences that each educational system has its own specificities to be nurtured, of course, if deemed to be, and that a value system can again be created that can be kept in step with another. We've made these changes and additions with the entire academic community. Don't get me wrong, please, but I don't have the logic of those crocodile tears. He now cares about the students whether they will have enough deadlines, and we have agreed with the students on these solutions, at least those who are the official representatives of those students. I mention once again - 2012, 2013, means it will have six deadlines, then the next five and when it starts 2014, 2015, but the question is asked – will this process of change in the content of teaching be completed in the meantime? When we ask the deans and the teaching council, they say – yes, we reformed it, with us the burden of students is properly distributed by objects and the number of points is adequate to that, and the students say – no it is not true, our attitude is completely different. But students need to understand, sometimes we're in the ministry or the state, someone that they, if you want to be more honest, talk more openly than they do with their colleagues, teachers in college, because maybe that teacher-student relationship is such a character at some high school institution that they don't really allow things to be talked about until the end. I'm saying this because I asked the students in 2009 that at their conferences or at the student parliament, they take a stand, because as long as they're not said – the professor and the one, whatever his name is, doesn't teach, doesn't come in time, his textbook isn't fully understood, he's too large, we can't find him, he doesn't give us advice on how he doesn't point to what the content of teaching is, or until the student realizes that he has to pay for the whole process, there won't be what we all want, I'm totally convinced, because I've been listening to everything very carefully, that we have quality knowledge. I talked to a professor from Oxford last year who has a professional class, he says – if a student doesn't show up for a lecture during a semester, he's practically lost for that year. So the learning process also involves the participation of students fully in the course of teaching throughout the year. We've tried to make and fix what's not right at the moment. There is some commitment between us, or there is agreement between professors, students and us, that the proposed measures are good and that they do, if we do the job in the meantime. You're right, there may be a problem, but if we do a job, because another legality, that no matter how many points you need to sign up, that's what the New Sad University Rector told me, that 20-30% of every year ends, all 60 points, it ends. So, as much as the number of points is changing for other students, the question of motivation and the students themselves and, in general, all of us who are trying to promote higher education so that within and those structures that are ruling and those of others understand the importance of education for the future development of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to waste your time right now, but those who want to see that in the strategy, we've foreseen many goals that we're yet to achieve and we've proposed ways to get to this. I'm saying this because the education strategy that we made is one document, the first time that happened with us, a comprehensive document that was done by expert groups, methodologically, in my opinion, in a very, very meaningful way. In one methodologically based way that we had people from the profession who made certain booths, we had consensators, opponents, those who think completely differently, we had foreign evaluators, we had one process of public debate, and we had professional bodies that were law and recognized as relevant to, to say policy-making in the field of education and at all levels we made appropriate documents about the state, what we should do, and we're going to translate that through action plans and the next years. I also stress the coming years through laws that are subject and work of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The university was led by Ivan Ivić, part of the higher education of Prof. Vlasta Matejic, and they were people who ran the whole project, and I think over 130 and some people participated officially in this part when separatists were created. I wouldn't tire you of reading the data as planned, but I have to tell you that we're trying to increase the scope of these changes, to create the possibility that as many students as possible to enroll the university, but you're right, there are parts that don't belong here in law, my colleague Deretta said that, but they do happen in college and a lot of what depends. Are the colleges really making the changes they need to acquire quality knowledge or not? Some colleges have, some haven't, I don't know who said, some professors will never change, as some students will never understand that without learning there is no quality knowledge. Everyone has their own perspective on the learning and education process but, therefore, within the university on teaching and scientific councils, it is also necessary to discuss it, so take the appropriate stance. I know that there are documents within the university and university that put such questions on the agenda only if there is strength among employees. As well as the question that my colleague Poscurica was talking about, the precision of the standards for selecting certain titles. You're right, the law gives general criteria because the law is such a character, but universities then understand some criteria in one way or another, so you have a situation, I'm saying this because I've seen the documents of the accreditation commission, that in some universities an extraordinary professor has a certain number of papers published or monographs so much and that this situation differs from university to university because each person makes a choice within his university according to a document that he brings autonomously. I'm telling you this because I'm going to try to finish my exposure. We've tried to find answers to the questions that have come to us at this point, and I don't think there's any concern that we're going to upset the students with this. On the contrary, students tell us all the time – we want to know what the condition is? I didn't know that I was going to do this job again, but this attitude was taken in March of this year, and the entire academic public together sent a message, to tell whoever makes a government, whoever is minister of education and science, that they should propose amendments to the law to the National Assembly of Serbia, because if they don't propose a goal of 60 points won't reach the appropriate number of students and then we'll all be at a loss. They'll be at the loss of students, they'll be at the loss of universities, they'll be at the loss of the entire society. On the other hand, I want to tell you that the transparency of study costs is something that students set as imperative. We of the Ministry of Education and Science are absolutely behind this because colleague Kovac mentioned an example of students of doctoral studies who do not receive money in time, since we asked the Ministry not to transfer money until we have been provided with a list of which students are concerned, because students of doctoral studies complain that their colleges are taking money even though they are on the list of those within the quota approved at that university for doctoral studies. We've been funding doctoral studies for two years now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we finance 1650 students of doctoral studies. That's what we're building a base for increasing the number of college employees, not to mention rejuvenation of teaching staff, and I'd like to see 20-30% of that staff go back to college. The question has also been asked, since I'm going a little wider, nostration of the diploma. It's exactly what universities do, and I don't know who asked that public question, and we keep insisting that our diplomas be recognised in other countries, and when someone comes with a degree in universities from Europe, the world then takes us a very long time. We're going to try to propose a law that would solve it, we've already talked about it, we've formed a working group within the KONUS and we have certain solutions, but we want to see what other countries' practices are like. One logical question is raised - if the Accreditation Commission approves each study programme and knows exactly what the title is given in relation to the structure of the programme, the question arises whether the colleges should also reassess whether a diploma with a particular structure of the subject is relevant for that title or not? And that's what we talked about. All in all, I think this will be good for students. I don't think this is gonna solve all the problems. No, there's this huge job we need to do inside the university without questioning the autonomy of the university. Two years ago, when I defended the changes and additions of the Law on Higher Education, I said that, listening sometimes to what is said in this respected home and colleges about the autonomy of the university, that we come to organize a scientific event with the topic of university autonomy, what is it, and then people would see that this is a very widely understood category from country to country, with a very different diapazon of law and, of course, obligation. If it's not, of course, with us, it's mostly about rights, and there's a little talk about obligations, and the way people are elected, because whoever gives you money, he wants to know exactly what that money is spent on, so somewhere the state chooses the people in charge, and then they're responsible for the business policy of that institution. One thing is the process of organizing, running a house called a higher school institution, and the other is curricula, programs and what is part of teaching and scientific councils. Dear colleagues, there is no reason to worry or doubt that this was done to harm students. There's no reason to worry or doubt whether the students will accept this. It will, it's in their favor. There's no reason to doubt whether this suits the colleges or if they'll accept it. They will, and they will, and they will. We have a problem, if I may say, or part of the problem, given that passability has increased and increased from year to year, to solve within all colleges this crucial question -- whether all the study programmes have been made in a way that properly established the degree of burden on students and whether all the standards that the National Council for Higher Education has set are respected, not only for accreditation tasks, but also for other things that are part of the education process. There's no ideal. The question is, will everyone, and when we do a lot of things, admit whether he's okay or not? In the end, I dare say that our higher education is really quality. I'm not saying this because of the results our own achieved, but because of the fact that we still have high-quality education, we have a large number of people with great potentials, very competent, scientific competence, and I think it's a great advantage of Serbia, this human potential that we possess, and that's something that we absolutely can and should use. I think the additional impulse to increase quality will also give the process of ranking higher education institutions here in Serbia, because we started the process too. Why? We want exactly on the basis of the criteria that both colleges and universities will propose to establish criteria that will rank higher education institutions, and then that will be enough evidence for both parents and students and for the economy to invest in. Now we have some community colleges where they don't even care about passability. Why? When there are a huge number of students and regardless of the degree of passivity, there is a constant flow of money through that vast number, then these other things, the issue of programme structure, the quality of teaching and attitude towards students, are being pushed objectively into another plan. When you make a list, then you'll know exactly. It's something that weighs both the world and not just through this Shanghai list, but through other lists of university rankings, because everyone wants to know where money is worth investing and what it's worth. The state's interest is to have as high-quality education as possible, to increase as much coverage as possible, to reduce study time, to increase efficiency, but not at the expense of quality, and to increase the number of highly educated people. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is not something that can be achieved overnight. Maybe now I'm paying for something that's been going on for decades. Now, according to our humble court, we're laying the foundation for something that would come in years to give a positive result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2597	Thank you. According to the order of application for the word, the first word has the MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2598	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, by respecting all that you have said so far by explaining the amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and all that you have just said after this principle debate, I am sure you will agree with me that for the born of Serbia, it is of paramount importance that by creating a legal framework for the adoption of a national qualification framework for the level of higher education, Serbia is no longer the last country in the region that does not have this provision under the Law on Higher Education. I am proud that the MPs of the NS repeatedly in their discussions in this distinguished House have indicated that it is impossible to implement a reform of higher education through a law that was passed in 2005 without creating a national qualification framework. I'm also sure you'll agree with me that for years back, we didn't know how to define the titles and levels of education. The bigger problem was that the National Council for Higher Education did this document, which they say stood in a drawer because it turned out not to be in charge of it. These problems have now been overcome, and I expect very quickly that the competent ministry and the states of Serbia, through the application of this law, will know which personnel schools and what competitions it is calling for. It is equally important to bring this document into line with the European one, not only because we have taken this obligation by joining the European space, but also because when we bring our document into line with the European one, our students can show what they have learned and what they are qualified to do. Mr. Minister, there are 1,500 study programmes in Serbia today. However, this does not mean that there is so much calling. That is why Serbia needs this document that would clearly define which titles, skills and levels of education are behind each diploma acquired. We don't have to have that much calling, but we need to define what anyone can do when they graduate from college. For example, when a foreign company here registers a competition, candidates have little chance because they should have a diploma and a calling for international standards. So far, it has not been clear to strangers what they know to do. The National Employment Service faces a number of problems and you are certainly familiar with the fact that 60,000 diplomats in Serbia are not recognised on the labour market, so these academic citizens are in vain waiting for work. Many of my colleagues are here to give instructions to various examples. I will also list one of my friends, a graduate philosopher of general literature and literature theory, who says that when he speaks to the National Employment Service, he is openly told that he is out of work here. Employers in Serbia know what they want, but they can't be sure someone's diploma guarantees it has what they need. Employers also ask not what degree they have, but what they know they do for the ones who apply for the job. It is also very important to implement all the procedures that this law provides, and in this case the competent authorities must be both consistent and rigorous. That means you can't give diplomas to those who can't do what those diplomas say. If they come to employers and it turns out they can't work, the whole system becomes unstable. I will list some more of the problems facing high school students, e.g. which degree of education to indicate when applying for a scholarship abroad. The diplomas of specialist studies students receive after the completion of four years of university at European universities do not exist, so high school students often have doubts about the degree of education to indicate when applying for a scholarship abroad. Since the European space of higher education involves a tricyclic system, i.e. basic master's and doctoral studies, specialist studies, unfortunately do not exist. Students wonder – what will their status be when applying for master studies at foreign universities? And one of the key questions arises – how do you motivate students to enroll specialist studies? The lack of NOK so far has allowed some colleges to increase the number of students, while some are educated by students who have no chance of employment. I believe there's going to be space now, when it comes to this component. It is also important to point out that each NOK has its own specificities and, above all, refers to the needs of the country in which it is being brought, and what we have said so far in favour of the adoption of this law should be comparable to the European law, but not literally and copied from it. So, if Serbia wants to respect European standards and instructions, free movement of labour in the labour market, then it is necessary, in addition to adoption, and urgently implement this law. At this point, despite the reforms that have been carried out, there are still educational programmes relating to outdated, overcome and unnecessary occupations, i.e. certain programs do not follow changes. On the other hand, the absence of NOK led to the labour market, i.e. The Employment Service doesn't recognize new knowledge, which has created complete confusion so far, because some employers value it as a higher-school diploma, not as a college degree. Therefore, it is necessary to apply this document which classifies professional profiles and all levels of education. And to be competitive on the world labour market, by 2020 we need 40% of highly educated personnel. That is why, of course, more resources are needed than those that so far stand out. We stand out 0.9% of gross domestic product, and in the world it's between 7% and 20%. We also expect such a major problem of overlapping diplomats into the labour market to be resolved, to be prepared for life by graduates through this law, as active citizens in society, and to prepare for personal improvement in life. As regards the reduction of the number of exams proposed in this law in Article 6(7), as regards the New Serbia parliamentary group, if more colloquium is provided to students and if student organisations agree with this, we have nothing against it, and I agree with your assessment that we are a country in the region and in Europe with the most tested deadlines. We also agree with this concession that you have proposed in this law in Article 7, on the number of points for enrolment in studies and budget financing. That is justified, given the crisis Serbia is in. I appeal to you that you and your colleagues at the Ministry of Education do everything possible to use our minds, to at least a little, regardless of the crisis, the economic crisis in which Serbia is in, prevent the outflow of young brains from Serbia. What may be very important is that in this new term of government you take the decision to, if possible, shorten the procedures for the nostrification of diplomas. It is something that both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia expect from you. New Serbia will support this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, as my distinguished colleague Zlata Djeric said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2599	Thank you very much. You've stopped just in time for your MP's group. Mr. Elmir Elfic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2600	I am very pleased that this law was found before the Assembly, because I consider it one of the most important laws that is a prerequisite for the development and perspective of this society. However, I think that the amendments and additions of this law are more focused on formal technical problems, not on the fundamental ones. In terms of the quantity of education and standards in developed societies, the lower limit required by educational people in one society, state or region is 20%. The percentage in our country is far below this lower limit and it's moving something, I think, below 7%. If you go into the interior of the country, you will see that this space is even lower, which directly affects the inability of the even regional development I hear about very often. This law provides for the protection of students' interests, as stated in the document we received, for the reason that 80% of students did not achieve 60 points. And indeed, in terms of the formulation that is mentioned here, it is in the interest of students, however, if we go a little deeper under this surface, this data is worrying and it tells us about an extremely difficult system problem when education in the Republic of Serbia is at stake. Someone said and questioned the Bologna system, that it is not good and that education today in Serbia is worse than it was in the previous communist period, when the plan and centralist were organised. However, the Bologna system has proved itself in some other highly developed countries, which means it should not be questioned, but I believe it is a poor implementation of the Bologna process. It is also said that reducing the test deadlines will improve and increase the quality and efficiency of the teaching process. I think that the reduction of deadlines will only cause the opposite process, because the bologna implies a dynamic systematic approach to education, where students get points through continuous work at universities, which again confirms that this 80% of students who have failed to meet, and in the budget are the Republic, says that the process of organising teaching at state universities is not good. Someone here has also questioned education at private universities and universities compared to the state. I think there's a problem here, because the plan-based way of organising education wanted to get into the education system. But it's halfway there, so we literally have a kind of unfair competition in the education market when it comes to private universities in relation to state universities, and I think that here education policy is directed towards institutions, and it's not directed towards students, because students of private universities are also our children and generations who need to take responsibility in the coming period. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is necessary that in this amendment and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in the extended competences of national situations, as stated, and already in the existing Law stands who may be in the membership of the National Council, I think there is a great shortage, which in law does not stand who cannot be a member of the National Council. We have a situation that rectors of individual universities are also members of the National Council, which, in its competences, establish standards for self-valuation, evaluate the quality of high school institutions, establish standards, establish standards for initial accreditation, establish standards and procedures for accreditation of higher school institutions, establish standards and procedures for accreditation of study programmes, where we have a classic example of conflicts of interest, because they can literally extend, correct and create scientific and teaching programs and all possible procedures as appropriate to their universities and universities if they have competition in the same district to perform and disqualify them. A classic example of this is Novi Pazar, where he is also a member of the National Council. Thank you. Finally, I will say that for the reasons that I have stated I will not vote for amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2601	Thank you, Mr. Elfic. The next word is Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2602	Dear Chairman, Mr Mitrovica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS supports the Ministry of Education's initiative, science and technological development on the introduction and establishment of a national qualification framework. I'd like to say a few words about the genetics of what the situation is, what the situation is about the national qualification framework in our country. I must mention the National Council for Higher Education, which in 2010 brought the first draft, version of the National Qualifications Framework, which took part in an international project and which has defined and passed all the filters of the one most competent for the certification of such a document or institute, which is called the National Qualifications Framework, which is the Council of Europe. So we had in a certain form the national qualification framework as early as 2010. I think we need to get a new national qualification framework as quickly as possible. What the SDPS also believes may have been a better solution to pass a special legislation on the national qualification framework, which Germany and Slovenia have. I think that in one more quality and better way, it would cover the problem of this framework, which is strictly linked to the list of titles, which we do not have today, and it directly affects the employment process and the flexibility process. So, the development of the labour market in our country. We're still using the old qualification framework. It does not provide for many institutes defined by the 2005 law and amendments to the 2010 law. It happens that employers in the private and public sectors still define some sixth, seventh, eighth-degree education, which has not yet existed in the 2005 law. Therefore, the national qualification framework will definitely modernise and affect employers and employees, to know which qualifications are defined and what graduates who complete certain high schools and colleges possess from what the national qualification framework clearly defines. What's that? These are the outcomes of learning and these are the competences of these graduates. What are the outcomes of learning? That's what a diplomat carries with him, as a result of his theoretical and practical training, in a company or company where he will work. What's the compensation? It defines a clear standard whether a diplomat is ready to do a certain job well, to create additional value for his employer, whoever he was, whether he's in the public sector or he's in the private sector. Everyone is interested in solving this problem and in adopting a national qualification framework, and most social partners, the government, as an employer, as someone who owns it, as a head of public enterprises and in public administration, private employers and trade unions, as representatives of the world of work and, most importantly, students. Students will know exactly where to work and give clear guidance to their potential employers what they possess from qualifications, skills and skills in the employment process. What is also important, and what the national qualification framework will define, is the need for strategic planning for the development of economy and education. At present, we have one big discrepancy in this area, and in many sectors we are training people who are definitely surpluses in the labour market, and in some sectors we have a shortage of people. I mentioned here the other day that the current need for firemen is for 3,500 people, the need for managers in trade is enormous, and simply not potential employees, nor unions know it, nor does the state know it, because there is no clear strategy and defining the need for certain personnel in the future. I hope that our economic needs will be defined in the new education development strategy by 2020. What is equally important for the national qualification framework is that we must clearly define it, but it must be the subject of ongoing discussions, because this is about harmonising with the European Qualifications Framework. Since education, that technological development is so dynamic, we have a situation from one of the most recent research in the United States, that in 2010 of the 10 most wanted jobs in 2004 there was no such thing. So, both economics and science, and technology develops so quickly and dynamically that we have to strategically plan and move forward with these changes that are happening. The current situation when it comes to higher education in our country is that we have 6% of highly educated people. Six percent of the people who finished some higher or higher schools, and the education development strategy by 2020 has defined that we have 20%. The EU average is 30-35%, the United States about 50%, Japan 60%. I think with that strategy and defining this good plan that we have 20% of highly educated people we need to define which profiles are needed. counterpart Banovic said nicely in her presentation. We need engineers, if we're going to implement one policy and a re-industry strategy, we need people to run production, not other profiles that won't have anything to handle, because there won't be any development of the economy. We all know that without technological development, without the development and creation of a society based on knowledge and knowledge-based enterprises, we cannot achieve full competitiveness on the regional and let alone on the global market. I'm going to give you the data from one research done in our country a few months ago, that when it comes to this proportionality between the needs of the economy for the skills and qualifications of people and diplomats, it's such that 40% of the businessmen have a serious difficulty in improving their production technology because of the lack of skills of employees. Thirty-seven percent have problems reorganising jobs. New employees have a problem learning new skills. As a result, 16% have a problem opening new lines, due to the shortcomings mentioned above. Here's proof of how much we need this clear strategy and harmonising the needs of the economy with, of course, the personnel that we're going to educate in the next age. At the very end, I can't help but mention the level of education that is unfairly neglected by us, which is extra-institutional education and informal education. I believe that non-institutional education, which many call informally, is not informal education, it has a clear definition, informal education is an education that is defined and learned and achieved through work, through the work process, they represent a functional part of formal education. We also have to work on this plan, since the national qualification framework does not define only formal education, it must also define the need for skills and skills and knowledge that can be acquired through training, visiting various conferences, gaining various experiences of good practice and accepting some "no hauva" from other developing countries. I have data that 88% of the comparative advantages shown by employees in the United States just came because they had developed a system of development and skills acquisition. It's one policy regarding philosophy and lifelong learning strategy, which I think the ministry will definitely work for. These amendments to the laws show us that the ministry has a serious intention and therefore I can only welcome the adoption of a national qualification framework as one of the first steps that is very important for the country to develop economically and solve the biggest problem in this country, which is the problem of unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2603	Thank you. And you stopped at exactly the right time. Mirko Chikiriz, as far as I can tell, isn't in the O.R. The next speaker is Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I don't think it should be stressed how important it is for Serbia to have a lot of highly educated people. We need young educated people who are motivated to work and create, but who are willing to be educated their whole lives. Having a child in college today is for every family and pride and success, but also a great cost. It is difficult to educate kids in college today, and it is particularly difficult for families from the interior who live in small towns and whose children and children go to Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis. These families have to pay very expensive private apartments, they have to pay utility, they have to pay children to provide food, transport, give them money when they get home. Many fail to enroll in the budget, but pay tuition and then it's a very high cost for families. These costs often exceed one average salary, and then you can imagine how difficult it is for parents. Very often children, if they don't enroll in the budget, and give up their studies. Believe me, I've met a lot of such children and their parents who simply had to tell a child – you know, if you can get into the budget, you can study, if you don't, unfortunately, you won't be able to. Among them are my former students, children I know from school, and I know that with a little support and completion of the study, they could change their social status, but unfortunately, they couldn't. In that sense, I support what the minister said, that he would advocate a greater range of young people studying, that there would be a beauty of paying tuition and that in that way those who, I say, were a little less able to study, and of course those who were the best and most valuable will be educated on the cost of the state. In that sense, together with my colleagues from the URS, I support the proposal that students can finance themselves from the budget if they make 48 points. I'll give you the data I found, which was made on a sample of about 80% of the college, where it was estimated that only about 20% of the students in school 2011-2012 achieved 60 points. In fact, this way and by bringing these changes to a large number of students, we will allow them to enter the next school year and allow them to school on the cost of the state. It is also very important that the amendments to this law allowed the extended year to last instead of six months a year. This will be a great relief for both parents and students, because they will have the right to a home, they will have the right to a table and a transport. However, we must get to 60 points very quickly and make the studies faster and more efficient. We'll have to stop whining about students only and on this road together will have to work both students and states, but also colleges and teachers themselves. Today, students at our colleges are really overly burdened with obligations, and if what their colleague said, their burden and their obligations are much higher than their colleagues in European countries. Because of these huge obligations and this overload, they actually fail to meet their obligations, and that's why we're coming to the point that they don't have 60 points. I also believe that there is a need to revise plans and programmes and reduce the volume of materials. We students today, and I don't mean this just for students, this applies to all levels of education, and for primary and high school students, we need to release unnecessary knowledge, they need to get functional knowledge, those skills and competences that will enable them to work. I think it was a long time ago when teachers were just teaching, and it was the students and students who were the ones who spoke, so to speak their words, they were supposed to be on a bug and just respond. Times have changed, and on the way to learning and students and teachers need to walk together. We also need to improve the methods of work. It's us who need these students to motivate and somehow make them work hard and learn. They also need more practice in the process of learning, need teamwork, need to solve problems and need to acquire such knowledge, skills and competences that will enable them to manage successfully in the modern world, in this time when technologies change very quickly, when the availability of information is very high. We need to avoid making our students and students learn a lot of data. No, that's wrong, we need to teach them where the data and information they need can be found and used to solve the problem. The draft law provides for a smaller number of test deadlines. I don't think there's gonna be any problem with this if time and commitment are better organised. There are also a small number of test deadlines at European universities, but exams are passed through colloquiumes, which is often not a practice for us. I think we should allow students that if they make all the commitments through a colloquium final exam they should only have if they want a high grade. What makes me particularly happy is that students will know at the beginning of each school year how many points they will need to sign up next summer, so it's good that this law is passed. What makes me particularly happy is that, for example, when adopting a set of financial laws, the finance and economy minister, Mr Dinkic spoke to craftsmen and entrepreneurs about the return of VAT on baby equipment, spoke with parents' associations. Today I saw that the minister for my same great pleasure, respected the demands of the students. That she remembers her students very well from March of the month. I think that all the measures we are taking in this House and that they will be good if they are targeted and those users they are intended to benefit from. It will be very difficult, but it needs to be distinguished between the ability of the state and the needs and demands of direct users and to find the best solution that both will be satisfied with. I think the new government is going well and that it should continue in that direction, because only by a joint conversation and dialogue can we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2605	Thank you. The next registered speaker is Svetislava Bulajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2606	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, members of the Presidency, honourable ministers and fellow MPs, as I appear at the outset of the discussion about a relatively modest Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, and since I come from the university environment, other than sitting in parliamentary benches, I cannot express great satisfaction and joy as well as some of the previous speakers to this occasion, except in the part where such a proposal of amendments and additions has caused this kind of discussion. It is particularly important to me that in your address to Members after a principled debate, you gave some of the explanations and indications that the reforms would continue to move forward, that is, to complete the reform, and what are the indications that will go the way and at a pace. That's how much, and it's better that such a discussion has developed, because I guess we've gotten a little bit more information about it. This, since many things have been pointed out, may have turned things a little bit upside down and come from the fact that there is no doubt that the measures that are being implemented will be considered successful when it comes to higher education reform, only if these measures really lead to a reform that will mean to the state in the rule of law, a knowledge-based market economy, and therefore not to any knowledge, but to quality knowledge. What concerns us as a parliamentary group is the fact that Serbia today is not sufficiently well-founded in knowledge, that there are different reasons for such a thing, but that certainly the absence of a stronger impulse by institutions is a lack of administrative capacity. But I would also say something which is also a lack of a culture of spreading knowledge, so the cult of knowledge has been growing more and more demode lately. That is why I am convinced that consolidation is necessary, therefore, of various energies, and as a university MP, I repeat that we must act as partners, partners of our students, because the centre of education is students, we must not forget them and they must be at all times and even at the moment of reforming higher education. But, not declared, of course, not as a declarative partner in this job or someone who accepts the solutions offered, including in this law, or in this bill, but as someone who has to understand, therefore, his role in reform and possibility, the right to influence his own education. So it is the students who have to initiate the discussion, to initiate changes that when necessary and criticise and demand. In order not to bear the burden of reform on their own, which is why this law is now and in the procedure, in order to facilitate that part of the reform has fallen on their backs, and that in the end, therefore, it would not be expected or tolerated from students that they are expecting charity in some sense that will eventually mean to them every subsequent school year, a change of these forms that exist when it comes to reform and what someone calls the Bologna process. I think the question of the Bologna process is without question and to question it at the moment when clearly, and this is evident from your reasoning of the bill that it is certainly a condition of both international competence and recognition of our system. The fact is that our university finally arrived on the Shanghai list, something we can't, and not to say hello, that means that the walking process doesn't need to be doubted anymore, it just needs to think about how to make it more efficient and how to ask the right questions. Not just the questions of measuring the number of points, but whether we're going to tolerate 48, 50, 52, 60, but ask that question again, since I'm with students in daily contact, why is this magic number of 60 of our students so unattainable, in a huge number of cases. You have, of course, offered a great deal of data here, which I am pleased to conclude is increasing passivity, but passing is not the ultimate outcome that we all expect, which is a better knowledge. Finally, in the function of what many predecessors spoke about, so something that will also meet the requirements of the labour market and the competence of finished graduates on that labour market. So, that's not the number I'd be dealing with right now. I think it is beyond any doubt that this now solves a particular situation, a particular problem, and certainly our parliamentary group will not be against that fact that these students who make 48 points are allowed to enter the budget, but I would be inclined to hint, or to repeat to those who know it, that this is not guaranteed to enter the budget and that it is still a ranking and that depending on the university and university, it will not mean the idea that budgetary releases will be sufficient, or that the budget will be sufficient for all those who have met that condition. If the idea is to tighten the belt here, I urge that we do not tighten the belt and try to favor knowledge and students and that in some way, although it is not a question for this moment, ask the question of outcomes, security of better quality knowledge, and not just mere passing. This is not a goal for you, and it will not help you in any way in these economic reform problems that we all have and the crisis that is over us all. So the key issue of higher education reform is certainly quality, not quantity of knowledge. Only such knowledge will be recognised in the labour market, as I said, and only so can trade be forced in some way to start demanding better quality personnel and to in some way expect the system to produce and the highest quality personnel to meet their market needs. Of course, the education system is very inert, you have already mentioned it in response to some MPs and therefore there is no dilemma. So, without the proactive participation of students, and of course we, who stand on the other side as academic MPs, will not go far. That is why, from this pay phone as I do regularly from the cathedral, I urge students to participate more actively in this process, and from the position of favouring knowledge and quality of knowledge. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, Dereta has already indicated in front of the parliamentary group, that we will put an amendment on the number of deadlines, since we do not think that it is more comprehensive, essential reform here, and that we cannot predict the pace that the reform will continue to develop. We feel that it is better not to define ourselves on this issue, because in a certain number of years, we are likely to have to change the law again, because it will not be done in such a way as to satisfy this condition. Our solution goes towards a proposal that may be radical to you, that the issue is not included now. But if that solution seems radical to you, it seems to us that the amendment announced by the DSS and counterpart Banovic's parliamentary group is also reasonable, and that the amendment on the number of deadlines could be considered, in any case. As for the things that are now mentioned, just before my announcement, I can only say hello that some of my colleagues, including a colleague Marinkovic, noticed that there was a little talk about the so-called. informal knowledge and the acquisition of knowledge through informal means, and how to introduce it into institutional frameworks. These are the skills at the price, and on the labour market sought by employers, which can certainly respond to the needs that exist in this society and how to modernise our curricula and programmes, and in this sense. Simply, what is recognised, therefore, as something that is also very important, is that, in addition to the strategy and the necessity to exist as a society of knowledge, it is indeed a lifelong education, which will not stop at any degree of education, regardless of whether it is a high education, doctoral studies, specialist studies and the like. In that sense, I urge that in the following attempts, this law be inaugurated and made more complete, promoted a little more of this kind of value, given a little more precise plans, in terms of completing the reform and its further progress, and in that sense I encourage you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2607	Thank you. The next is National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2608	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Today, there have been a number of different aspects of being a university and university, and I will base my exposure only on the topics proposed and the subject of existing, or proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The proposed additions relate to the extension of the competence of the National Council, as well as the establishment of a legal basis by which student conferences have legal personality properties, which are obtained by enrolment in the court register. The National Council for Higher Education in the process of reforming this education, among us, which were otherwise started by signing the Bologna Declaration and by adopting the 2005 Higher Education Act, has gained an extremely important and important role. In ensuring the quality of higher education, a number of responsibilities of the National Council have been established, including only some of them - monitoring the development of higher education and its compliance with European and international standards, establishing standards and procedures for accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes, establishing standards and procedures for external quality checking, as well as standards for self-evaluation for the assessment of the quality of higher education institutions, proposing to the Ministry of Higher Education and Higher Education Policy to enrol in higher education institutions and a number of other competences. In the light of the above, the legislation prescribed, the competence of the National Council, then the proposed supplement, which is said to be – the National Council proposes to the Ministry a national qualification framework for the level of higher education is both logical and justified. It actually stems from previously established competences of the National Council. Therefore, it is without a doubt that the National Council of Higher Education is among us the most competent body to identify and propose a national framework of qualifications for the level of higher education, which would be in line with the European Qualifications Framework. The second proposed addition of this law concerns a student conference of the University of Serbia and a student conference of Academic Professional Studies, which would have acquired legal personality by enrolment in the court register. In view of the fact that this is a formal condition for the accession of our student conferences to the European Student Union, as well as the fact that this is a legal entity, among other things, necessary for these student conferences to have the right to participate in competitions for projects that are otherwise intended for them, this is also an important and important addition to the law that should certainly be adopted. In addition to providing legal opportunities, our student conference on participation in international competitions for projects should also be encouraged, encouraged and supported in any other way possible. The second part of the proposed law concerns students, study rules in terms of the number of deadlines tested and the setting of conditions for enrolment of the next school year. It is proposed that the conditions for enrolment of school 2012 - In 2013, there will be 48 ESPB points, then 2013. – In 2014 that condition should be increased to 50 ESPB points. At the beginning of the reform of higher education, the most important objectives have been identified. Among them, the particular objective was to increase the efficiency of higher education. The main indicator in achieving this goal is certainly the length of study, which, by the way, at the beginning of the reform processes we could not boast, and is now far greater than the one we would have been pleased with. In fact, some analyses say the average length of study for four-year studies in us is greater than 6.7 years. In the reform process, we have sought to enroll our students each year with 60 ECP points, or to pass all the tests provided for in the curriculum and programme for a given year of study, through the innovation of the teaching process, in terms of improving the quality of the same, through interactive teaching and continuous work. However, in practice this goal is still far away. This can best be illustrated by the fact that only about 20% of students of this school year achieved 60 ESPB points. In view of the fact that the reform itself is a process, that our students, according to some estimates of the professional public, are still quite burdened by large and unrelentingly complicated teaching programmes, that the effects of the economic crisis are more affected by the student population and their parents and guardians than by other categories of our population, then it is understandable and commendable that the ministry's proposal, to enable students who have achieved at least 48 ESPB points in the current year to register in the following academic year. Proposing and setting conditions for enrolment and the next 2013/2014 year is a fair and correct proposal and is in the best interest of students. This means that students at the beginning of this school year know the conditions for enrollment and therefore should organise their activities and pass exams. Supporting the Ministry of Education's proposal to determine the proposed conditions for enrolment in several years of studies for the abovementioned reasons, I am deeply aware of the fact that these students on the one hand are getting, but on the other hand also losing, above all in terms of the possibility of following the teaching process of the next school year. The unscheduled passed exams will certainly be a burden and limiting the full capacity to follow the upcoming teaching cycle and to participate actively in it. In addition, this requires a special effort from the faculty, teachers and associates to organise and coordinate ongoing teaching activities in some ways. I therefore believe that the reasons why a gradual increase in the conditions for enrolment is proposed, as well as a reduction in the number of deadlines under examination, lie in the proper assessment of the competent ministry, so that the expected effectiveness of studies can be achieved, as well as a better organised teaching process in colleges, which is also an important condition for achieving the objectives set for higher education reform. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS, as it has done so far, will strongly support the development and improvement of the quality of higher education in our country. He'll also try to recognize and understand the problems involved in the efficiency of our students' studies. In that sense, we will always be for those solutions that we are convinced are in the best interest of both our students and our society as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2609	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2610	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as October, the beginning of the academic year approaches, there are amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. However, since I am an MP in several terms, I remember the situation when we were already deep in October, when our students were on the streets, when we agreed on a solution to overcome the current situation. So, Mr. Minister, tonight is September 25th, slowly approaching that October 1st, it's a late curfew and, of course, you've brought us new amendments to the Higher Education Act. Nothing new. The Higher Education Act was passed in 2005 and its intention was, above all, to increase the passing of students across Europe's territory and to connect two very remote worlds, which are still further and more opposed in Serbia today, hence, the world of work and the world of education and, at the same time, make it easier for these young people to work and what I said at the beginning, to adopt a system of comparable diplomas in Europe. There's something that can be an anecdote, but unfortunately it's not an anecdote. These comparable diplomas that we adopted and how welcome a donation was in Norway, for example. Norway thanked one Serbian delegation for a donation in the form of several dozen young educated doctors of science. Unfortunately, since 2005, as far as I'm concerned, six and seven years old, because in 2006, the law started to apply, things aren't much clearer, because we see and encounter a lot of problems in this area, and we see that something is scribbled. Some say that the reform was not even carried out until the end, that it had stopped somewhere, and a lot of comments about how the reform had choked somewhere, that it was gone. What's a fact, and if you're following the forums, I assume you're following, the students are accusing the professors, so they state the reasons. On the other hand, professors accuse students. You, unfortunately, say – there are such professors, there are such students. I can't accept you commenting as a representative of the Ministry. It's just, you have to have mechanisms to know how to solve it. What's a fact is we're missing one serious analysis, let's see where we're going, where we need to go, if we still know where we need to go, what are these problems, and see some recommendations on how we can solve these problems. There are such analyses in other countries and it would be good to base all of our future changes and additions on these analyses and on these studies, because without them, we will wander. Here, now we're talking about why, let's say, it's impossible for our students to win those 60 points, which is what's stopping them. Let's know, we assume, but it would be nice to know. On the other hand, Serbia, unfortunately, is getting an ever worse grade each year for implementing the Bologna Process. After 4.2, where we were satisfied, it was 3.8, so we were a little less satisfied, but we were still satisfied. Now, last year we got a grade 3.11. Afterwards, though, what I like and what can encourage this story of analysis and research, a public discussion has been held that had a theme of the challenges of higher education in Serbia. There I heard very interesting discussions and conclusions that Serbia has too literally applied the Bologna process and that this has led to ineffectiveness. Then, in comparison, there were reforms in the way it is implemented in Serbia with the way reforms have been carried out in some other countries, and there have been some drastic differences, which, of course, we respect that each country has its own specificities, but on the other hand, we still have to pay attention, let's say, to the organisation of the university, let's say, to the standards of evaluation, let's say what's very important in some other countries. Material conditions, i.e. giving state to colleges, are between 7 and 20 percent of gross social product, and we have 0.9. It's a problem that teachers and students in our country point out. I think that these are some questions that need to be opened and discussed openly precisely because it would thus be manifested whether we are still going in the direction of Bologna or we have given up on it. It's a very interesting story when you look at only one of the things you change, and that's the number of deadlines tested. We've come up with this concept of what we're going to talk about, and we've come up with people who work at universities and sciences and social sciences, and we haven't been able to express our position at all. They're one for staying six deadlines and it's an optimal number for them, and the other for being an excessive number and having to make that reduction that you suggested. That's why our amendment is a famous 4-6 test deadlines, so colleges themselves can define what it is they want. It is good that Serbia finally gets the possibility of a national qualification framework for higher education. It's good, although it's a little late and we have to say that I really expected it to be done long before, since the National Council brought in a list that was only valid within the deadline. It's just that Serbia seems to be still within the deadline, so somehow it's all late. It seems to me that it's good that you listened to the student conference, to speed up this process and to sort of bring the national framework. I won't be long, the time for my parliamentary group is quite running out. I wish my colleagues could get the time. I just want to say a few things I'd like to make as a recommendation. First of all, I would like the law to be passed once, the amendment and the addition of the law I have no doubt that, since we touch them in the dark, here in front of us in time, to discuss everything and not to be against them, not until we make the arguments of one, the other and the third. I also mean those who are the government and the opposition and you as a resolute minister. Secondly, I really say that without one serious analysis of research in this we will touch as much as you want in that darkness, but we will not change anything significantly, and we all really aim to get an effective study, to get quality knowledge and that eventually the teachers do not say – we have humiliated our subject and we have completely ruined it by moving on to this process. Third, and no one mentioned it, there's no strong university without a strong high school. Unfortunately, we're jumping the stairs in this process. I wish we'd started talking about high school reform first, and then we could get into the university reform story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2611	Thank you, Mrs. Vojić Markovic. The next is Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2612	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a set of laws, namely the amendment of the Law on Education and we, representatives of the SNS, will vote for the adoption of these amendments. But if we keep in mind that education and health care are two basic pillars of every society, we cannot help but face the fact that these two pillars in Serbia are not quite as stable. That is why I believe that the resolute minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, is not accidentally in this place, because he felt in himself that he could at least one of those two pillars preserve and help Serbia's stability. At this time when Serbia's economy has fallen and is not ready to finance education, let alone accept and employ all those who finish our higher schools and universities, it is indeed courage to accept this job, or be at the head of the education ministry. I welcome today all these changes that are made in the proposed amendments to the law, but I must point to this change, related to the number of deadlines tested. In my opinion, the number of test deadlines, as proposed over the next few years, or reduced number of test deadlines, will not bring quality. It won't even bring study efficiency. I am more willing to allow students if they need more deadlines, because not all Djokovics, not everyone can be on top. There are also those students who are average, and since we said we should have 20, 30 or I don't know how many thousands of highly educated people in Serbia, then we have to take care of those averages and allow them to finish their studies in good time. In addition to my thesis, I'm going to state one more fact. At the time, I was the director of the Jugoagent Maritime Agency, and as part of my portfolio, there was this personnel service, or as people's resources say today, and we really took care of human training, which I can't say today about most of the businesses in Serbia. Every employee had the opportunity to pay for his education, he got two days to prepare his exams, he was allowed to attend lectures, etc. Today in our country, that's not the case. I believe that all my colleagues are experiencing what I'm experiencing, to have students come and tell you – professor, I can't come to the exam that day, could I have another day? Or, when the exam is finished, to come and say that they didn't want their employers to let them out of work so they could take the exam. Therefore, there must be changes in the Labour Law, to try and legally regulate it, and on the other hand we must have, to be aware of these students and one of the ways we show that we take care of them is that number of deadlines examined. I don't think that's going to reduce anything to the quality of the study, and that it's going to allow students to achieve better results.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2613	Thank you. The next is MP Alexander Pejcic. Would you like to sign up, Mr. Pejcic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2614	I thank the Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister, here are two working days as we are together. It's a lot easier for you now. You defend the law from your report, and I assume this discussion of mine will cause you interest. In fact, this law has also brought great attention and attention to the professional public and others, above all, students, freshmans, college graduates, their parents, the closest ones, because they are afraid that this law will be passed, with which legal provisions, will there be any amendments? Is he simply going to sign up next year, or is he going to be on the budget? The Higher Education Act was adopted in 2005 when our country joined the Bologna principle process and thus increased the reputation and international competence and credibility of our higher education institutions and then the reform of higher education began, and the law, as we know, began to apply next year. What is characteristic after the start of the reform of higher education is that colleges were not ready for the application of Bologna principles, especially state colleges, did not adequately respond to these principles. That's why some colleges that operate on market principles, on commercial grounds, I'm talking about private colleges, and how they adapted to these Bologna principles. To the ministry's decision to inspect this law and students have acted in their own way, some legislative provisions have responded positively, to some with a reserve, and to some even negative ones. That's what I'm gonna talk about in this discussion. The fundamental changes in this law are, above all, that 48 points can be added up next year, at this point with a growth trend of up to 50 points by 2015. Then, to reduce the number of test deadlines from six to four, to increase six months for final year students to be on the budget and what is also important is that the Student Conference was given legal status. Personally, I'm going to slowly analyze these items that I'm talking about right now. Many students say that 48 points at this point is a good thing, but since the trend is on the rise and by 2015 they will have to fill all 60 points, they say that the effort has been made for about 25 hours and since each exam is score 10 hours, it is 250 hours for one exam and it is standard. They say there's been a confusion, that some professors, when they started applying the Bologna principles, suddenly set points for their subjects that were once bi-semedraneous, and now they're one-semed and there's been a mix-up. When it comes to reducing the number of test deadlines, students disagree with that finding, since even for six test deadlines they cannot meet these conditions, let alone four. They're proposing that mechanism, that's what my colleagues were talking about, and that's passing exams through colloquiums. This should be considered, given that in many European countries the number of exams is much smaller, but through the shape and mechanism of passing exams through colloquiums, it ends in one correct way, and whoever wants to have a higher grade can go out on those test deadlines. When it comes to changing the exams of the final year to six months longer on the budget, we think it's a correct and good legal provision, since it's a social aspect. It is precisely these students who will be able to use during the working period and the possibility of benefits such as loans, then transportation, housing in the home, food, etc. So when we look at all these things, the fact is that over time these Bologna principles will come to life. But what is important, Mr. Minister, is that when we educate our students, that future intellectual elite, they will surely leave Serbia with their belly after bread. That's what we need to deal with right now. It's these young intellectuals right now who need to get the country out of the abyss, which is extremely in the deep abyss. I hope this government is also thinking about how to stop the brain drain, given that Serbia is second in the world to brain drain, behind me I think Guinea-Bissau. In time, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, if you remember correctly, formed a talent fund and thus tried to stop a brain drain from Serbia. So, it's a good thing this Ministry of Youth and Sports has also called this year a competition for young talents. I hope that you will find some mechanism in the future, along with us here in parliament, how to stop this brain drain, and that we will help, first of all, our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2615	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Sasa Milenić is not present. Then, next is the folk letter Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2616	Mr. Minister, the presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have heard numerous discussions. There were some ideas in each of them, there were our problems with Bologna, and it was what we felt at universities, as far as the problems with Bologna itself came to university. Bologna is the process that we entered, which we entered, it seems to me, a little bit unprepared, in the sense that the number of employees is the same, the number of students in that big glider constantly increased and we're working with the number of students today. Every group has at least 25 exercises, and if that's experimental practice, then know how big a problem that is. We have to approach every student, show him certain things, and that's really a big problem for us. Of course, this is also the success of the students we had from this report by our minister, where it is said that only 20 to 30% of the students achieved 60 loans, which were really hard to achieve. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted two amendments and tomorrow we will talk about them, and they are referring precisely to the number of deadlines tested, and the number of deadlines tested by us really needs to be slightly higher. counterpart Donka Banovic suggested that the number of test deadlines be minimum of four and maximum of six. I think that's one reasonable solution right now. The number of deadlines examined for universities, when six deadlines are examined, is not a big problem. We all finished some colleges and we had five, six deadlines. Believe me, if I had to go back to this time to study, I don't know how to end it. Most of us were campaigners. I was a campaigner, too. When the test deadline came, we sat and studied and very successfully completed our colleges in time, graduated, mastered even for two years and received a doctorate in a short time. We have successfully completed such a number of test deadlines. A small number of test deadlines will bring us the following – students have a minimum of eight classes during the school year, first semester four and second semester four. Very often it's five-five. After the second semester, that student is due to pass five exams. He's got June and he's got September, possibly October, if we give it to him. The student needs to examine two and a half or two exams in one time. If he also has a practical exam, an oral part of the exam, which sort of tests in front of the oral one, then it's very difficult. Collecting points during the school year isn't that simple. They have mostly 12 to 15 weeks of work in the course of a semester. If that's 12 weeks, each of the professors asks at least two, three times to pass some tests, and the tests are, as I've pointed out on the board today, not knowledge. They break through those tests, they find them in the copycats, and you can't do tests that are every time they're new. It's often repeated, and based only on tests and based on some colloquiums to give the student a grade, believe me, I don't think it's right. At the end of the day, if we put him in that grade, he doesn't know how to talk. He's supposed to be a teacher at school, or he's supposed to work with the population, or he's supposed to be a lawyer, and he can't literally talk to people. So, just the points collection system, the grades, it's absolutely not acceptable, and I don't think even Bologna insists on that. I also have an oral part of my exam on my case, and believe me, it's only here that I realize that all of their previous knowledge that they've shown through the tests that I can see successfully how they rule that knowledge. However, there is also a major problem with students in extended status, or former absolvens. Students in extended status, today we heard from the minister that within the prescribed number of test deadlines they could pass, and that is where we submitted one amendment. We'll talk about that again tomorrow. We believe these students must have more exam deadlines, even than those six. The graduates used to have a test period every month. They're sort of graduates. They sit at home and do nothing but learn. Well, let's give them a chance to finish as soon as possible. That's the point of Bologna, to get them on the road as soon as possible so they can work. I don't think that amendment is absolutely unacceptable either, or in accordance with the Statute of the Higher Educational Institute, let it be arranged, but let's not let the professors write in the notebooks of exams, and in the end, we'll put them on the test schedules. I don't think that's really right. What would I say in the end? That universities, and no one touched here, have major accreditation issues. Accreditation takes a long time. Accreditation, when we go, it's a few months to do it, so we deliver it to the Ministry and the National Council and the Accreditation Commission, and it takes more than a year. It's really a long time. If there's a solution, let's cut it short, so it doesn't take that long and we really speed it up. It's a big problem at the university. We mentioned a code list of professional names, where no professional names were entered, those who have been in school for many years. Then, the rulebook on the type of professional training. We have a situation that, for example, The University of Novi Sad, the very Faculty of Natural-Mathematics, which teaches professors and mathematicians and geographers, biologists, physicists and informers, we have a situation that if the rule on the type of professional training says that he can work in school, financial mathematics can, and mathematics finance can't. Is that such a problem to make it right? Our name is mathematics finance, and financial mathematics stands in Belgrade. We've been trying to change that for years. We hope there won't be one line in that name that matters so much and that, for example, it will. A graduated biologist – an environmentalist who can work at school without being a graduate environmentalist. It's small things, it's the same programs, it's the same thing, it's just called a little different. It's no big deal to suggest, that the minister himself make that decision. That's what we expect to be resolved very quickly. In the end, I'd be happy to see that with this kind of analysis, what kind of minister came out, about passing, after three years of applying these changes, we come out again, and see if we've done anything with these changes, or how many four test deadlines, and if there's 48 credits left, then 50, then 60, if we're going to have a higher pass, and in three years, we're probably going to have some indicators. I don't think we're going to, and these 48 loans, students should be aware that if it's in the quota, then they can go into the budget. If the quota is 100 students and 100 are 60, no student with 59 will be able to enter the budget. That doesn't give us much. We're getting a much higher number of deadlines to increase our passability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2617	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2618	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, said once that along with the people and the weather, he could go crazy, so crazy is for the smart and the evil for the good. In this crazy time of ours, probably compared to some similar times like that, in some other places, ours would be somewhere on top. In recent years, erosion of everything, of all institutions and erosion of quality, of value, of respect. Unfortunately, high education has not been avoided and neglected in this erosion. The higher education that has always been an example in this country, had high reputation and respect, dignity and served with its responsibility, work and quality certainly for the reputation of this country, and educated for years of generations of quality students, people, and many unfortunately went abroad and there, from this imperfect system of ours to their perfect, passed on knowledge and contributed greatly to their development, unfortunately, rather than ourselves. Then it happened to us that we were marched by some marched democracy, which came, flew into the university, put on some party boots, took over and declared autonomy. That autonomy consists of that no one else can interfere there and that they can do whatever they want. There are two other things that define our dreary reality when it comes to higher education -- one is Bologna, and the other is the hyperproduction of private universities and universities. We have nine private universities and 60 universities. There's no one in Europe, and we're probably champions of the world. It is not a European standard, nor was it or will it be. Now the master's stamp has begun, and when all the singers become masters, they'll probably shut it down. Unfortunately, we have masters, and we no longer have masters. What's important is this bologna that everyone's talking about and the Bologna Declaration and everybody's calling for them to work on Bologna -- someone changed, someone changed, someone named Bologna in a Serbian way. And now we hear that some predict that Bologna will no more. The open question arises - are we ever mature to accept that system of Bologna declarations? Are our professors sufficiently psychologically, pedagogically educated, educated, that what they need to implement and be the quality of something new, apply to students at all? It's an open question, and we're entering something that we ourselves don't know what to do, and we're neither technical nor material, nor professionally prepared for it. Our higher education has experienced this Bologna, that it has often preserved programmes and plans, and only changed the form of some new tables and, normally, introduced some new names and names, which are Latin, that many teachers no longer know what they mean. What may now be the essence of this law and what should be very much thought about, because this law was actually passed seven years ago, and these are just new changes and we're changing it again, because some colleges haven't arranged their studies, so they don't have enough students who meet the requirements for enrollment next year. One of the kinds of problems I want to stress specifically are individual professors with whom passability is extremely low, to this extent, to stop entire generations of students. The colleges of the state turn out to have no solution for the problem and suffer students. In some professors who have already become famous, the passing is below 10%. Imagine what a problem it is for a student from a poor inside family who can't sign up for a budget because of a professor like this and has to pay his tuition, and comes to lose his scholarship and the right to use a dormitory. Indeed, this country must do something immediately to end the will of individuals and chaos at individual universities paying for citizens. In that sense, I'll only give you one example. At the Faculty of Agriculture, a visiting professor from Macedonia shared tasks with students, left an assistant to monitor it, and in the course of the exam he left the room and the students finished. Pick up an assistant trainee, hand over to the professor, and he grabs those workouts and takes them to Macedonia, as a man lives in Macedonia. He takes the exams there and he e-mails it, emails it to his assistant and says, of the 70 students, he passed 10 and 60 students. The 60 didn't pass because he thought the tests were so well written, he thought they were cheating. Normally, don't answer, don't come here, keep those tests there and the students go to class and complain. The prodecane can't do anything because he gets that kind of explanation. And now are these young people who have lost a year, or are they in a position to lose a year, obliged to suffer such an arbitrary professor who neither lives here, who we import from Macedonia, who is still carrying tests outside of this country to examine them there.? So there are a lot of problems in this sense, and I say more because of these deadlines that want to be reduced from six to four -- because how do we explain that many students, because of a small number of deadlines, because of such and similar professors, can lose a year and often, perhaps several years, because of that? In that sense, I have submitted one amendment, and we will do so tomorrow when we talk about the law in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2619	Thank you, Doctor. The next reported is Predrag Markovic, who is not in the O.R. Mr Milan Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2620	In this afternoon's debate on this law, we have discussions that can be led to concrete discussions and discussions on the law and other group discussions of MPs concerning reasoned objections, which relate to the essence of the law and on the basis of discussions, the need to possibly revise this law on higher education. In line with the discussions of previous speakers, or my fellow MPs, I will bring this part of the discussion down to two parts. One part, concrete, which applies to the law, where I would say, in my opinion, the appropriate and good parts of this law. In the second part, I would refer to one general position relating to the very process of higher education. The good news is, as you ministers have, as some MPs have said, a small law, but a small law regarding a lot of sensitive things. In fact, we can say it's a small large law, because this law with eight members is also a picture of a state of higher education. These members we are discussing, however, are created as a result of a proper teaching process, adequate passability, teaching organisations. It appropriately indicates that in some segments, the organisation itself and the way in which the teaching is conducted in the relevant universities is not adequate. There is also an inadequacy of the organization, maladjustment or need of teachers, and also the unadjustment of students. This law, even though we said it had only eight members, again provides a picture state in higher education. I'd like to go back to law enforcement now. I think it's a good side of what's really extended funding from students' budgets for a year. It's been six months before, so it's one relief and it gives students one better chance. Prolonging funding from the budget from six months to one year is certainly one beneficial effect per student. The second thing is, since our student conference has become a member of the European student conference and therefore membership is a big thing for a student organisation, and secondly, this need for the student conference to be given the legal personality, so that they can compete for the appropriate funds that are being financed and planned for it. The third thing is current now before October of the month, and that's an adequate number of points, 48. So at this point this is an adequate condition that, we have to say, the current situation given the number of students and the needs of enrolment for the next school year, it's certainly also useful for students and it's one side useful. It's also a good side to me, the rate of growth in points for the next three years, and a parallel reduction in the number of deadlines. Why is that good for me? Because at this point, we already know the condition that's been planned for a year or two days. So we know the rules of the game. We can treat these two rules in two ways. So, to prepare for this condition of our organization, I mean colleges and the passing of students and that, in an appropriate way, we do, I mean the appropriate colleges, the action plan of that. Or, if that is not possible, it is good again because the relevant institutions, which are colleges, have time to come out and say – well this year it has been useful 48 points, but it has been argued to indicate that for next year it takes some other number of points. Maybe in a year, we'll discuss this again. So the good side is, I repeat again, we know what's coming next year. I thus give the opportunity to all those colleges and institutions that think it is not good to step forward, either towards the ministry, and thus towards the Assembly, to make corrections. So the certainty of the game rules gives you the opportunity to improve something or make remarks and try to change that, to convince the relevant institutions with their arguments, which is the ministry, that it still needs to be corrected. The legal basis of the national qualifications framework for higher education, i.e. that list of titles, is then useful and well solved. It is absolutely necessary precisely because of these things we talked about, employment, applying to, as previously said, the Bureau of Employment, or looking for work after the end. The resolution of this legal basis, one colleague discussed, recalls that in the next phase, we will resolve the same framework of qualifications relating to secondary schooling, or secondary vocational education, because surely after this, we need to resolve that part because the relevant professional profiles of secondary schools do not go to study. This is what, at this point, this law gives and, obviously, the ministry according to this situation has adapted these members in an appropriate way to improve all of this, as much as it can in these conditions. Then there remains now that part of my discussion general, which is clear here from the discussion, not only of fellow MPs of various MPs, but also of professional people outside the Assembly, that there are significant objections relating to the essence of the organisation of the teaching process in higher education institutions. So, they argue that there are problems in the organisation, in the way they conduct teaching, exams, and thus the results that arise. Immediately related, a fellow MP said, that after all this time one professional evaluation of all the segments of education they have given has to be done. Well, let's see on one doctrinal, professional path because education should actually be, and we're all aware of that, doctrinally, professionally, according to the profile of appropriate studies based on competitive objective parameters, to do an evaluation, and that the results of the evaluation indicate that this is good, something needs to be improved, something needs to be changed. In order not to be much longer, what I see, and I suppose the SNS, is the hope that already in this report, which we discussed on the Committee, the National Educational Council which he proposed to the Ministry, namely the Government, that it is necessary, they recorded the situation from primary to secondary education, including college, and we heard today in the presentation, to make a quality education strategy by 2020. So, for me and our parliamentary group, it's to define a clear strategy, which is planned. When a strategy is done, it is quite logical that all segments will have to be revised and done according to that strategy. It is then necessary to move into the appropriate process of assessing the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Middle and Basic Education. Personally, I think that if this government wants to change, and we all want to change for the better, to be practical about this law now, I see that most of them on that side, without being neglected and that our discussion remains empty, that through the strategy, and clear plans of the strategy are defined, audited, if necessary, the curricula, concerning higher education, secondary education, as well as all the mechanisms and funding opportunities. I think sometimes at some point we know how great something is organized, not to name countries in Western Europe. We're going to need it because they're financially better organized, much more time. I'm sure we'll need procedures to say -- this is the best, but in the next three years, we can respect the doctrine part for our financial support, but the financial part, let's make that a transitional part. Mostly, our party and previous fellow MPs said they would support this law. What I think is that we have hope that through the strategy, we will do a proper re-discussion, if there is a need for a revision of the curricula and the process in everything, not only of higher education, but of pre-school education and to do everything we can to improve the teaching process and to improve the effects and all segments that follow it improve in real life and benefit students, students, or our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2621	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2622	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, when education reform began in 2000, had the general impression that the trom educational system in Serbia had finally come to an end. 12 years later, however, it is clear that things are going hard. It would be incorrect to say that there are no changes, as well as that in the field of legal solutions, the problem of practice occurs too often in Serbia, and it is seen in practice that some things are not done properly. Education should be one of the most important topics in Serbia, given that we do not have oil and gold and that we can only be smart people and well qualified in strength to make economic progress. Many countries have done this before us, such as Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands. Today, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, where it is in art. 5 and 7 as stated by the ministry, in order to protect the interests of students, the reduction of the economic crisis effects due to a certain financial burden based on the payment of tuition and the loss of the student standard for a large number of students, provided that the student can finance himself from the budget in the school 2012-13 year, if he makes at least 48 points in school 2011-12, i.e. if he makes at least 50 points in school 2012-13 and ranks as part of a total number of students whose studies are funded from the budget, in accordance with the law. In fact, a sample of 80% of the university estimated that only about 20% of students in school 2011-2012 achieved 60 points. Why are these changes of law now? The reform went very ambitious, however, two years ago it was seen that Bologna began to stagnate in our country. The point of the problem is that there is a poor transition which, in my opinion, is the cause of the high burden of students. The question is, are children's schools difficult? The school is not difficult, however, it is boring for them, archaic, the programs are outdated, teachers have old-fashioned access to follow-up, new technologies are poorly applied and there are a number of teachers who have fear of computers, do not apply new technologies. Students themselves continue to face a large number of unreformed curricula and programmes that are too ambitious, the textbooks are too large, as well as the tendedly poor application of the Bologna Declaration. Every year we've had a student strike because we have a system that's unspeakable. Magical words were 48 points all the time, both past and past years were the reason for student protests, walks, karate and university blockades. I think students should be granted a condition of 48 points of funding from the budget, because not only can students pay for unfinished reforms. If generations cannot meet the conditions of 60 points, there is some systemic error in assessing whether students can learn what the teacher is looking for in the scheduled time. Another cause of poor passing is some demanding professors, whose high criteria are almost impossible to meet. There's a certain subject in every university where passability is extremely low, and that's a big problem we have to solve. I think that the use of student surveys and the public publication of statistics are some of the ways that some professors would ask themselves – what is it about me that is the reason for little passing on exams, and to correct their mistakes in work. Students also have a problem with the poor work of student services which further slows them down in their primary tasks, which is monitoring lectures, learning and passing exams. For each application, the student should go to the university, buy an exam application at the script shop, go to the post office to pay, return to the university to report the exam, and all this takes valuable time for students at the moment when they are most active in the process of learning and saving before the test deadline. It also happens that students often wait for teachers in the appointment for consultations, lectures or exams, but that the professor does not show up. For some reason, there was no electronic application for exams, and that would save time for every student. Every college has a website, and I don't see why it wouldn't be published on the site if the exam or lecture was delayed, so students don't waste time coming to college. Lack of money in this case is no excuse. All it takes is better organisation and discipline of employees. The newspaper in this bill is an extended insolvency internship. In the draft law, it explains that this bill, for the purpose of creating conditions to retain the status of students financed from the budget, until all remaining obligations in the scope of around 46 points are met, students are scheduled to be enrolled in the first year of primary studies of the school in 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 respectively to retain the right to finance from the budget for the longest year following the end of the regular duration of study. This solution is also useful because student status in terms of funding is determined by enrolment in the next school year in October of the month and no technique for changing the status during the school year is foreseen. I believe that this change is very important and positive for students, because it is envisaged that an extended year, instead of six months, lasts a year, which is very important for the reason that from the social aspect, students are thus extended the right to a student's home, to credit, to transport privileges. All these are very important items in the home budget of a student, especially in today's economic crisis in which the country is located. These amendments to the Law on Higher Education all win. There are very few students who have reached a 60-point condition. We realized there were only 20% of them. Keeping this number of points for the budget could also mean giving up a study of a number of students who cannot pay for a continuation of education, and that is not in no interest to anyone, and I call on you to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2623	Thank you. The People's MP Predrag Markovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2624	Thank you. Mr. Obradich, you know this is personal, right? I apologize to the other MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a joke about the exchange of who's on which side of the experience. I'm not gonna use all the time that's left, because one thing's a joke, and one thing's seriousness. There are two paradoxes in this context when we talk about this topic, and it is understandable that so many MPs wanted to participate, because it is an important area, but the amendments to the law itself could have been united with tomorrow's points, because, in essence, besides this qualification list, as we have found, these changes were ratification through the law of those agreements that were reached for different reasons in the previous period: the problems of passing, meeting standards, economic problems and other parts of the educational higher school community. It is quite correct that the minister said so, and in his explanation today on the board, as I heard it, and in this way he basically removed another paradox. You've been a messenger for a long time, and you've heard what was said. All those who come to the vote will vote for amendments and additions to this law. Of course, and the United Regions of Serbia. But if you had passed that law on which they were amended and supplemented, you don't know who would vote, because some of them are obviously still not quite faced with whether it's good and there are great doubts whether to even enter, what rhythm in the Bologna process, let alone in a whole series of those processes that our higher education system now meets in the context of standardisation of networking with other universities. Of course, some would not vote because there is a political folklore. Today you saw that some ministers, representatives of the government did not vote or did not come to the vote for ratification of the agreements and agreements they had concluded. It's part of political folklore, and that's where Serbia doesn't differ. I'm only telling you this because of it, and it's my last message, and it would be good if MPs were aware of it, you're now in a great position, the beginning of government work, where you're in the continuity of portfolios and jobs, this is just one segment of your portfolio that you've been doing, and you're able to make arrangements that have been reached immediately continue to realize. On the other hand, all those big topics, but also those prejudices, that our system is so, that wherever our experts go out, they hire themselves, which is not true, just a few colleges and experts from those colleges really find jobs abroad in that area, and the other one, and the other one, that our system is no good, finally, and that's now the second advantage, right over this period, that we entered the Shanghai List, the University of Belgrade. Let's tell these jacks, for which we say we should not shed crocodile tears, let's tell them openly -- two years ago, Belgrade University would have been on that list, had it not been for bureaucratic sloppyness of some colleges. When we say it now, yes, this may be too much tolerance or too little for students, because they did not respect some deadlines, please, they also learned it from the university and the society in which they live, which among other things did not come to the Shanghai List because they did not fill out certain forms in due time and provided certain data. Why is all this important? Only one segment of what is pressuring, Mrs. Novkovic spoke excellently of the position of parents, especially parents who do not have the opportunity to, fortunately, have more now, but that in their place or near the university, rather than as they were spoken, are convinced to send them to the temple of knowledge. It's not like that. Professor Korać remembers that dilemma from thirty years ago when Edgar Moran was saying that college was - a little temple of knowledge, and there's a lot more valley of sadness, or thick ship. Because by definition, he's a university and a braker, just because he's saving the system, the methodology, the tradition. Also, a braker of what everyone here is saying, and that's the market and whether we produce human beings for the market in those very terms of production. The last time a systematic survey was made of what the market needs, and what is studied in colleges, if I remember correctly, that information by Professor Dimic, was done in 1937 and was attended by the University and the Royal Academy of Sciences and Arts, and that job was not completed then. After that, there were several attempts to adapt either the market or the college to each other. But these are all aspects where the state can't always help, and especially not the ministry, nor is it the ministry's job. You can relax there, but you'll get that kind of question all the time and you'll have to answer it all the time. Secondly, as is said today, I ask that as soon as you do, it's not about this law, it's about a new one, and that's nostration. Of course, you may even make me shut my mouth to those who have important data, of course, it's much more important that you simply facilitate the additional flow of personnel in one direction or another, because we are currently depriving ourselves of the entire sequence of personnel. As you will not qualify, some MPs spoke well, but you will not solve the problems that are important. It's not true that investors don't hire them because they have certain skills, calling students. No, I don't. Well, they don't hire diplomas. You always take tests, they employ knowledge. No, I don't. This is a problem because of our public enterprises and our bad sublegal acts that have predicted certain calls that are, in the meantime, or specific, so they are no longer usable, or simply unrecognizable. But in any case, in the next period, you will be relieved that from this point of view, the beginning of a whole period of government in which you continue continuity, and you will finally have one additional support, if I understand well, after two terms of the rector Mr Kovacevics is satisfied now this is crucial, and that is the Shanghai List, a new rector is coming, so you will have another help in the same track because the fact that these kinds of problems are being solved only between professors, or rectors, ministries and of course students. But when it comes to students, we always remember only some of the students' rebellions. Borislav Pekic taught me 90th year that they are not just the ones we remember. Of course, they're always in June or September. Of course, they're always more against social problems, not college. And of course, the students are right. But the students can't solve the problem, the problem has to be solved by someone else. Thank you. That's what I wanted to tell you tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2625	Thank you. National MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2626	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, who can only at first share one little impression with you, and the chairman will warn me if I accidentally insult someone. But it seems to me that all these days most of our colleagues, or a good part of our colleagues equally on all sides, come to listen to themselves, bow down and go away. It seems to me that you can give me a little more time tonight, if at least you know me, you know me by being persistent and persistent every night sitting here with these colleagues I'm watching. (President): We commend you, but this is otherwise the obligation of the Messenger of the people. I don't want to insult anyone, but I just don't think we're here for ourselves. In these two months I could hear very beautiful and comments, very nice discussions of my colleagues and I'm glad to sit here every night. I reported on behalf of the Greens of Serbia, getting the right to have someone who studied and graduated from college, honour of course with exceptions, say something about higher education. In part, the minister said something about the results of the Bologna process. We really need that analysis of the Minister as soon as possible. You invited us to discuss it in the coming days and months, that's certainly commendable. Green Serbia has noticed that there are a lot of problems with the nostrification of diplomas. This reduces mobility and students, but also labour in the future. Reforms in the course are unthinked and led to absurdity when we have the principle of reducing letters in books, without the books being adapted, that the contained book does not adapt to what students need. We even, to say the least, complain to some students that they have to read books with bats because their teachers just cut letters to reduce the number of pages. We insist on the essence and content, not the form of the Bologna process. When it comes to student conferences, of course it's good to get legal status. We Greens, it seems to us that perhaps student conferences could be registered in the register of the Association of Citizens. The Greens seem too rigid to be in the court register, but to say that Greens' policy is also a little more liberal than traditional political parties. For me, the unexpected, but the greatest restriction on the movement of Serbian citizens in the European area becomes also a model of higher education. Of course, it's neither the guilt nor the merit of the minister here, but we're just criticizing the proposed law to find some better solutions. Green Serbia believes that the number of test deadlines should not be reduced, rather, we believe they should be increased. Access to knowledge-check mechanisms should go towards having more, not less opportunities. This does not mean that it is necessary to lower the criteria or that knowledge should be partial. We're in favour of a number of test deadlines that will check the integrated knowledge. You know we have a problem in colleges because they are unfortunately not accessible to disabled students. We have with it one amendment and Green Serbia thinks that students with disabilities should be given the right to finance from the budget for the longest two years from the end of regular studies. That way we try to get that category of students to meet. We think that this proposal, we're going to talk about it in amendments, doesn't change the essence of this law, and it's bringing one human part and a human part into this law. Green Serbia, of course, when it comes to a number of deadlines, does not talk about lowering the criteria or that students do not have to learn. Knowledge must be the only and greatest criterion, but we must offer students options of choice and exits to exams. There he spoke very nicely, and Mr Blazic also spoke very nicely to the minister himself, to say he pointed out that he was looking for knowledge. There's nothing different about us here, of course we're trying to be primarily asked of students' knowledge. As the Greens, we generally support Bologna, but I remember my studies, I always took classes in which I regularly attended classes, regularly attended exercises, believe that I took those exams immediately in January or June. As a result, we think that Bologna is a good bar in that part to force students to continue to help them take exams in some way. We also agree with this loan proposal, that students really relax the knowledge that they will have enough 48 credits or ESPB points and that it responds to the extension of the requirements for enrolment. It seems to us that this previous criterion is sufficient and that perhaps there should be no further introduction and ranking. Green Serbia seems and we think the number of points is enough for this year. And in the end, what I really need to point out as Green, we have a problem with environmental titles. When I say, ecologically, I don't mean the fundamental ecologicals, but rather the calls that are in the field of environmental protection. The labour market, unfortunately, is very difficult or almost unrecognized by these professions, and the old national nomenclature that we're pulling out of, I don't think the former SFRY recognizes any particular professions, while there are national qualifications for higher education. With that, as soon as possible, we'll keep the Minister's word that we'll discuss the strategy, let's say, in the coming days, weeks, we'll be in a hurry and we'll be there to help make higher education better. These few suggestions are extremely well-intentioned, perhaps some of them can be accepted and to say, in principle we will be ready to accept this bill as Green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2627	Thank you. Otto Kishmartonni here. The next one's Professor. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2628	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected state secretaries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS as a democratic party, as a party of democratic orientation and as a state-of-the-art and advanced view that transition is a process in which the country is transformed into a capitalism, i.e. an industrial society into a knowledge society. And that means that we needed to transform education and education towards becoming the promoter of Serbia's overall economic, cultural and social development. Is that what's become? Of course not. In that sense, the transformation of education and education has not been carried out. First of all, we needed to transform the objective of education and education into a general goal. We cannot use the objective of education and education and socialist society, we live in a capitalist society. In this regard, the former governments of the Republic of Serbia and the former ministries have failed to bring strategy and vision to the goal of the overall goal of education and education. In addition, colleges, teaching departments, primary and secondary schools, political parties have failed. Until recently, they didn't have a strategy to develop education, and normal and economic, probably because of the circumstances in which it was found. As a consequence, we have that education and education have been abolished, that education in society has been abolished. It is the ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Ministers expelled from society, from school, from family, from children's and students' organisations, free activities of students and extracurricular activities and means of information, from political parties and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I guess we've been remembering the relentless events of the last ten years here in these benches. Well, if you want the law, so from 2000 to today, our laws have not passed a law on basic education and education and a law on secondary education, education, but a law on elementary school, a law on high school education. It was with a certain intention, only you, Mr. Minister, have, in the last, given the supplement, and your law is last called the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. They have expelled free activities from school, and they are unfortunately expelled today. We send kids to sports activities in the city, and we rent gyms for money that rarely ends in pockets just a small number of people in a collective with a director. It's a shame. It's a national disgrace. School pedagogogogist as an expert at school, we were expelled from both society and school. The school pedagogogog is a technologist at school, he records the situation, then makes proposals to the collective and social community, local self-government to improve the situation, etc. When I say that we expelled him from society, I ask the question to all of us and the citizens of Serbia – when did you gentlemen see a school educator on state service and state television in the last ten years? My statistics say, "Just one school pedagogogogog." But that's why you saw journalists, psychologists, sociologists, criminologists and others. We even expelled content from vitals to preserve national identity, from history, geography, from Serbian. Do you know, Mr. Minister, if they were returned, was the music school's third-grade music-returning teaching program, or was it the one that was kicked out of it, or perhaps, that they were returned from the Serbian language by Ivan Goran Kovacic's "Jama" tenth singing? I don't think that was a coincidence. If it is not returned, you have the support of all citizens of Serbia, I believe, and we here to return it to teaching content. Furthermore, we have been expelled from content from the field of protection and the promotion of human environment and security. Mr Oliver Dulic, I'm sorry to mention him, because he's not here tonight, he had a foreign exchange – Let's clear Serbia, it's an anti-experience slogan. This is not how it should be done, but – Let's not get dirty on Serbia. We always deal with the consequences instead of the causes. Furthermore, the slogan was to teach children how to use syringes when it comes to drugs, instead of saying not to drug children, etc. So, at every step of retail anti-vaspital activity, both in society and in official organizations. When it comes to universities and the opening of universities, private universities are being opened for faster earnings and criminal actions. The Serbian Ministry of Education has allowed the Republic of Serbia to have 18 universities, perhaps this number since last year, eight states, 89 universities, 10 private and 53 universities, and European criteria, Mr. Minister, are one million -- one university. I'm not saying it was you, but your predecessors took us instead to Europe, to Africa by these standards. As many district departments as there are, no one knows. These are statements from your officers, and the Ministry of Education says they haven't issued any work permits. Declaration in 2011, and on 9 March 2012, one ministry inspector declares that most of them do not have work permits. By law, as far as I know, there are no out-of-state departments, but you see, there are them at every turn. Such departments represent the litter of crime and corruption. Thus, I quote a statement from the Ministry of Education, so a private Belgrade University holds lessons at a pub in Banja Luka were enrolled in Belgrade, and classes in Banja Luka were called - a field trip. They're wrong, we can't tell them anything, we've done the same thing since March 2012. Like I said, one million universities. Why do we have a lot of private universities? It's the easiest way to make a fast profit. That's why we have them, and then there's bribery and corruption. That's the basic reason for a large number of private universities. I don't know exactly, but it seems to me that Serbia has more private universities than half or almost all of Europe. This is more of an American invention than it is European, etc. In principle, it is a poor quality of teaching, and the teaching reflects on the overall development of society in general. The college accreditation commission finds, I quote, "we have blocked different situations to teach from bricks, abandoned factories, to cinema halls", completed the quote "Politika", on 20 November 2010. Nepotism is a form of criminal behavior in colleges, which threatens the survival of normal work on these institutions. In individual schools, there are five employees in the state colleges of one family. One of them is even the college dean. The effectiveness of the study referred to in this amendment of the law requires changes, those for which the SNS stands, which are, firstly, the Ministry of Education. The structure and organisation of this ministry is outdated, dysfunctional, inefficient, so it is necessary to think about its transformation. The Minister of Education, I don't mean you here, the current one, but in general, should be an intellectual, expert and persona who has the elemental information about modern education flows in the world and is familiar with the state of theory and practice in our country, pedagogical and has the ambition and courage to organise a scientific reform of the education and education system, not an expert who has yet to get to know such a delicate system. It would be good if each future minister were appointed to the ministry as an expert, not as a politician, that he worked in elementary school, high school and university. The choice of State Secretary and Assistant Ministers of Education should be carried out by even more stringent criteria, which include domination in teaching theory and practice, as neither the genius projects of education reform have a chance to realise, if we have incompetent, semi-trailers and teams. We need reform to enable our students to study, not learn, and today we have heard that they are learning. No, gentlemen, but to study, because this third industrial revolution is based on knowledge and ability, as a driving force for the economic development of society. It would be good for the education strategy to think about forming colleges, that kind of college where students will study for science and one part of the college for practical work, that is, for teachers of secondary and primary schools and another course for science. That's why the Bologna process, along with some good side, does not allow for study, but for learning. Therefore, with the inefficientness of the study, all countries are struggling in transition, as you know, including our Serbia. Studies carried out in our country and in neighbouring countries show low study efficiency. The study termination rate is 45%, i.e. the study completion rate is 55%, to explain. The rate of repetition of the year is the highest for the second year of study and is about 46% and the next third about 40% and first year of study more than 25%. On average, it takes 1.45 years of study to enroll in our students' studies next year. In order to achieve a quality that will meet the requirements of European education and space, we need to meet the burden of teachers with maximum teaching six classes per week, or 10 hours of assistant. Then the teacher will be better prepared, perform a better quality class, or lectures, we will have a better quality of teaching. However, what do we have in practice? This is what I have to say. Mr. Minister, pay attention to this. In practice, we have individual teachers in colleges performing one, two, three, four, five, six and 10 norms, 10 thirds relationships. If you want, I'll give you a list of how many of them are in Serbia, so they'll become gigaros, so we get a rich improvizer, a university professor, or, if that doesn't work, a poor scientist. This is where we are now in the teaching process. Changes should also result in the choice of concepts of the work of the Educational Council, accreditation committees that have terrible gaps to be removed, changes in all degrees of higher education, and especially in the context of the professional and pedagogical methodical training of our teachers, university professors, which is on a worrying scale. My research at two universities, in individual universities, 80% of high school professors have never studied in pedagogology any subject, psychology not to speak. There is no measure of reform of higher education without reform of primary education and education. In the last 10 years, we have expelled education from schools and from society, from student societies, free activities, and instead, believe it or not, we have introduced militias into schools. In the history of pedagogy, you pedagogues by profession, from ancient times to today, that case has not happened. So it's a sign of the impotence of society in general. I have to say, sometimes we act anti-examinationally, both professors and the ministry. I will present two examples now at the request of parents, most of Serbia's citizens, especially the citizens of Belgrade. The first anti-vaspital goal of the ministry is that it happened at the beginning of the school year that 120,000 lockers were obtained times three keys. I ask the question to all Serbia's pedagogues, and beyond, is it the goal of a teacher in elementary school, for example, to shut down all things of students, 20 of them, or to open up and act educationally not to steal or to get used to stealing? You know, Mr. Minister, why was that obtained? For other reasons, commercial, there's no dilemma. Another example is double books. That's not what the history of pedagogy recorded. One of the books students learn at school, others at home in the era of great poverty, when the people make ends meet. I really don't have any words. Let me keep my attention for two more minutes, I'm sorry. We are looking for a minimum national responsibility to organise the production of pedagogical, economic, organisational, political education development strategies for the next 20 years. You'll say he has it. No, Mr. Minister, because no one's seen her, except for one small piece of education workers. The debate must be broad, from primary schools to universities, to every university. Controversial, non-pedagogical, non-democratic, this is my opinion, the commercial and political campaign of imposing so-called. The Bologna Declaration is against the future of students, because this bureaucratic act has not been given a pedagogical or practical certificate anywhere in Europe as it has been drawn. I'd like these words to be repeated in 10 years, so let's see where we are. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that the youth problems in the transition have accumulated so much, especially in Serbia, that it acts devastatingly on the development and stability of society in all areas. The young intellectual potential must have greater and more sincere support by the state, not systematically narrowing and abolishing the right to free education. Where's our socially responsible state? Your client has advocated it. The policy of the production of excess personnel and the unemployment of young people is increasing. The entrance exams are didactic absurd, especially at the end of the eighth year. The administrative act is burdened with the testomania and the irrational use of large resources and time, so they should be rationalised or possibly thought of being abolished. School fees and shines in alleged signs of taxes paid by our students in colleges are an act against Serbia's national interests, aimed at making Serbia as few academic and high-school educated citizens as possible. It's a path to poverty in Serbia, not wealth. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates that pedagogical training, perfecting pedagogical workers and education of parents, be one of the exceptional national interests especially in the case of teachers in secondary, higher and higher education, who have not graduated from teaching schools. In the modern society of learning IT pedagogy, a modern system of human development is needed, which has been deformed in the last decade, even destroyed. It is high time, Mr. Minister, for seminars and so-called educational workshops to prevent our educators, teachers and educators from educating semi- and non-governmental NGOs and clinical psychologists. The very expression of education, we Serbs have a better education and education is not ours. Among the priorities of this now our ministry and your education, in my opinion, and college should be the reaffirmation of the reputation of the pedagogical call in society, which means consistent and energetic determination, which teachers and associates are not similar to for this mission, for this call, according to professional ethnic cultural criteria, the creators of the cathedral, the traders of the cathedral, the corrupt individuals, all who are indifferent to students who run away from learning, should leave schools and colleges as soon as possible in favour of the development of the Republic of Serbia. The new Government and the Assembly should initiate the process of developing a scientifically-based analysis of the applicable legislation in education, in order to make changes and additions to laws that are poorly done and harmful, then to pay particular attention to the current accreditation of the college, because the procedure and criteria are controversial, especially as the teaching component is in the third plan and administrative and commercially favoured. In particular, it must be in the accreditation of the requirement that university personnel must be licensed from university pedagogy, and it is at a very low level, not to say zero. It is an urgent need to organise an interdisciplinary scientific debate and then pass a law on pedagogical, moral, cultural and medical standards of mass media, because abandonment to the verse, semi-trailers, commercialism deforms the system of values. The flood of ham, spine, sexomania, elite civil society, vice, persuasion, superstition and violence has a devastating effect on the education and development of young people, and there is evidence of the difficult truth of the market, attractive and unprofessional functioning of the media, is the constant and strongest opponent of the teaching system in society. Finally, the Serbian Progressive Party advocates that publishing activity in the area of textbook literature in the past, in fact, believes that in the past decade it has experienced a chaotic expansion, which has further awakened the crisis in education, introduced unfair competition, endangered the quality of this literature, opened up space for certain abuses and questioning moral norms and in the behaviour of actors on this market. Commercialism and printing of manuals and textbooks have reached a dangerous situation because of carelessness, so if you want full education and public and absence, so are the authorities of the state and the absence of pedagogical criticism in this area. It is therefore necessary to speed up the process of adopting a new law on textbooks. Finally, the Serbian Progressive Party, I will personally vote for these changes, by saying that no one in Serbia can convince me that reducing the number of deadlines to students, the expression of the quality of education, no, it is not an expression of quality, it may not be a quality, and I think that it is being brought in and I don't have time to explain it for commercial reasons, because it will only be harder to go to exams, one test rock student falls, such students to a thousand in one time three thousand payments only, it's three million. Please, all for commercial purposes. I'm sorry, I've been a while, but I had to say this on behalf of the educational public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2629	We have reached the end of the list of registered candidates, does the Minister of Education, Mr. Zarko Obradovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2630	Now I will try to give you the importance of this law in the next 60 minutes. Of course I'm kidding, this is the answer to the previous appearance of counterpart Peđa Markovic, because he reminded me of the time when we were in changed roles. He was someone who ran the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I was one of the MPs who called, and then Pedja kept insisting I didn't answer, I said I had to, and he's fine, but if you're answering, you don't have to take 30 minutes, but just be a little shorter. A joke aside, I think I should say a few words. There have been a lot of quality advice tonight, suggestions, attitudes, but I must say that many of them, the answer already exists, and unfortunately are not ambassadors familiar with that. Reading the strategy is something that will be precious to everyone. I am saying this for the reason that, when we read the strategy together, you will see that many of the views that some MPs have made tonight during the presentation, that they are already contained here, because I want to tell you that here are both pre-school and pre-university education and education, that there is always a vision of the development of the system, a cross-section of the current state, which is the findings of the SGOT analysis of the development strategy, a strategy how to achieve what measures are in the environment, the need for strategic relations. This is what I'm mentioning to you, that the strategy is over 400 pages, but we've brought it down to one acceptable, quantitative framework so that it can be read and that everyone can see this. Why am I telling you this? Because tonight's topic was far wider than the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I can understand all of you, because every single question is tanging, but I want to tell you something. First of all, the essence of this law is that the government and the ministry's proposal to adopt laws, so that students can sign a new school year on October 1st with 48 points. The main point of the proposal is to keep six deadlines next year and increase the number of points by two. The bottom line of the proposal is that next year be the number of deadlines five, and that the number of floors increases, that in 2014, 2015 be that line of 60. Why am I saying that? Because in the meantime, there's a lot to be done. Now, my colleague Korać asked me to think about how students of us who work in higher education graded, because some of the colleagues who answered and talked tonight, they went from a hypothesis that all 100% of the students will score 60 points. That's impossible. When I quote you the data, you see that there are 4.5% of students leaving their own studies. One more thing is if you hold the subject by yourself, and if there are two, three or four professors on the subject, then teachers also have different criteria, before determining the quality of knowledge, whether there are those written parts, whether there's colloquium or not, and then that final exam. At my place personally, I always have two background checks, written and then oral. Of course, I'm giving students the opportunity to do bad work so they can get the best grade, provided I ask them all again. If all I have to say is I'm fluctuating grades, then I'm only asking the third part. So there's a very precise inside each university and every teacher gives lectures and there's one complete autonomy. Well, it wouldn't be the autonomy of a higher school institution if the professor couldn't get inside a student program that was accredited to teach, write a textbook, perform, say, a knowledge check and finally give a grade. Here's the point of the next. We wanted to achieve several very concrete goals with these changes, and I think we really found a measure to do so. I wouldn't be afraid to worry about the number of deadlines, because you'll admit, until two years ago, there were three deadlines, so there was a passing point, too, because the number of points was lower. After all, when you look at six deadlines and this next five next year, and we're going to pass a new law on higher education, because we should also see EU directives, which apply to the area of higher education, plus this experience, means we'll have time if necessary, but I don't want to talk about it if necessary, because some experience has shown that only when the scales are set up and raised, when the rules of the game are correctly known, that then everyone in the system is governed by these rules of the game. As long as this is also mentioned by colleagues Markovic, and the responsibility of some universities and universities for the state of these universities and universities, because here, and in the strategy is said that many of them, exactly the fellow Posukurica mentioned the elections in calling, we have the right, here I will quote, at some universities re-election teachers do not usually take place in conditions of competition, and it is important to choose teachers and without meeting the criteria adopted by the National Council for Higher Education. These criteria are an appropriate number of scientific papers in certain categories, including scientific and research. Then, what counterpart Atlagic mentioned, the largest number of university teachers did not gain education in methods, teaching didactics and pedagogy or having no training in those domains. This negatively affects the teaching work of individual teachers. I want to tell you that this was written by professional people. You can agree or disagree, but you have to answer very clearly. You know how, respected colleagues and colleagues, individual opinions are individual opinions, and what most thinks is the content of this document. So here in the congregation you have individual opinions about individual bill proposals, and what most people decide, that's the will of the National Assembly. There's something else I'd like to say. This was mentioned today by several colleagues, this relationship between private and state universities. For those of you who don't know, I'd like to say, I'd ask them to listen to me, even if they didn't, they'd be able to hear this, that the private universities became part of our higher education in the early 1990s, and that the expansion was in early 2002, 2003, and that every college, both private and state, and every university went through the accreditation process. So the standards are the same for everyone, the rules are the same for everyone. The one who meets the requirements meets the requirements. I want to mention, because it is often presented in public, this ratio of the number of students enrolled is presented in different ways, as to whom it suits. Official data from the Republic Statistics Institute say that in 2009 and 2010, the number of budget students was 49.8%, the number of students who themselves financed at higher education institutions was 30.9% and the number of self-financing students at private higher education institutions was 19.3%. In the following year, 2010 and 2011, the number of students financed by state spending increased to 52.4%, the number of students self-financed at state higher education institutions was 29.5% and in private 18.1%) and in 2011 and 2012, the number of students was again increased to 52.7%, and those self-financed to 29.8% and to private 17.5%. You'll admit, it's one-sixth. I'm talking about this because it's part of higher education. If there is someone who does not respect the law, or if there are certain objections, or any negative attitudes or knowledge, we are at our disposal to do what is in the jurisdiction of the Educational Inspectorate. The accreditation committee is an independent body. It numbers 15 regular professors and members of the academy. They're doing their job professionally. If there are again complaints about their work, the National Council for Higher Education as a second-degree body to decide on these complaints and there is a real matter from the point of view of the legal provisions very clearly. They estimate the content of academic programs. Two more sentences and let me finish, because we talked a lot tonight. The point is, one of the colleagues mentioned this, what will be done in the course of the year within the colleges of study programmes, how classes will take place, and to what extent students will be involved in the process of learning and learning. That's the point. It won't mean anything to us this number of points if the teacher and the student relationship doesn't change things, because both of them are part of the learning process. I have to tell you that we received a lower grade in Bucharest this year and that students were not involved enough in the process of creating higher education. And that's one of the remarks we got, plus the external evaluation, and we haven't done any of the things we could have done yet. And that's our reality. So we have made this proposal of only eight members together with students, teachers, and there is no disagreement between us. If there is anything good in spite of the criticisms that could be heard, it is the fact that within the academic public we have found common language to discuss all issues that are on the agenda. There is no misunderstanding between us what needs to be done. When we apply this strategy, since the government will adopt it, you'll see, when we have a public reading, there's almost everything that you've said tonight, more or less, individually, or have been repeated, it's just the point of turning it into a law and, of course, providing the money for it, and what we're applying, that we can then realize. I wouldn't keep you any longer. On Thursday, we'll continue to follow the amendments, so if necessary, I can read you some parts of the strategy, to see that we've properly assessed the situation, because these discussions are also confirming tonight, but the bottom line is that some things can't be dealt with by law, relationship, lecture, learning. You know how, we mention numbers, 30% of students gave 60 points in 2010-2011, 58.4% met this condition from 48 points to 59 points. So, of that registered number 58, there was a condition for enrollment of the year. The question of that desired number is raised. Of course, students want to give conditions, and colleges are objectively suited to being more students, because the number of students guarantees a certain amount of money. There are quotas now, and if, in the meantime, this process of change is done within the college in these two following years, both in the way of teaching and in the content of textbooks, in the way of teaching, in ways of checking knowledge and students really are actively involved, we have no reason to fear the proposals we have received, and hopefully, which the Assembly will adopt and the results, that is, the consequence. Then it will be seen that whoever learns, he will fulfill the condition, whoever does not learn, will not fulfil the condition, as well as many things. There is one more thing that I think my colleague Markovic mentioned, no matter what, it is a reality not only with us but also in the world. There's a number of universities in the world where the name of the university's diploma opens all doors. There's a knowledge check going on for the others. That's right. It's not a coincidence that the Belgrade University didn't start yesterday, and it didn't happen to be on the Shanghai list this year. Nothing can happen overnight. When employers look for a particular profile, they do a knowledge check. You're free of your diploma, no matter where the university is acquired, if you don't have that applied knowledge, and that's what the strategy is talking about. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have presented this bill with the best intentions in front of you, with the desire to adopt them and to enable, objectively, the greater the number of students to enter the year. The quality of knowledge and change within the university remains something to work on. Now let me tell you right now, there's a part that we can do and there's part of the autonomy of the university that absolutely remains as part of their obligations, which they sometimes want to or don't want to talk about. That's what I have to tell you. It's not all sweet, it's not all honey, there are those bitter things. Sometimes within the university, there is no willingness to discuss all the problems that exist, or the questions that students ask, but we at the ministry have sometimes been on call for these issues, but in these past years we have learned that, without a joint conversation with students, college and university administrations, we cannot achieve a result. I must tell you that then many individual ambitions, if you will, are even eliminated. What is the public interest and interest of this institution, and of course, both students and employees, comes to light and we find a solution very quickly. This proposal was just made that way. I expect you to adopt it and thus give students a peaceful start to the new school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-25-0.u2631	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I thank all today’s participants in the work of the congregation. I'm scheduled to resume the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
