ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9600	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we began a discussion on this subject last night. The amendment also refers to the erasure of one member. Last night we were talking about Article 30, and now we're proposing to delete Article 40 and the title above Article 40. This article refers to the term – Institute of the Framework Agreement. As we have already stated, we believe that this term may not have been defined in the best way, or that it may not have taken examples and may not have reviewed all examples of practices from EU countries that introduced this framework agreement. For example, in Slovenia, there has been a lot of difficulty in applying this procedure and there have been a lot of concerns about how and how and in what way the basic public procurement institutions apply to this framework agreement, and in this respect we felt that, if we wanted to simplify the procurement procedure, we should define in detail and improve public procurement procedures, so we felt that this member should be deleted from this law, and, of course, in this respect, perhaps a little better define those existing procedures and procedures in the context of public procurement such as open procedure, restrictive procedure, etc. We have already talked about public procurement recommendations in public enterprises, in local self-governments for the past year or two days, to go to certain seminars, to educate ourselves on the preparation of these public procurements in our institutions, and now we come to the situation that we have to re-involve them in some new procedures, that we have to educate them again, that we do not talk about the means to use, about paying from the budget of local self-government, public enterprises to some institutions that are involved in the education of these public procurement referendums, so that we may have needed more detailed, better and more precisely to define the existing public procurement procedures, and then reduce the spending of funds, and in any case improve the work of these referendancies, which is probably the point of the whole story. I could also say that perhaps this framework agreement further complicates this whole procurement procedure and possibly would not know the difference between the negotiation process and this framework agreement, so the idea of the DSS parliamentary group was to simplify public procurement procedures, which is probably the wish of all of us here and get the best possible law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9601	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted together to the 40th amendment. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Janko Radaković and Jovana Joksimovic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is for Mr. Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9602	Thank you. He became, as far as I heard from the president, an integral part of the law, if so. The promoter disagreed, and on the Committee he was accepted and I am pleased and we remain in a firm position that all purchase plans should be published on the website and on the portal of public procurement. We're just correcting those purchases that apply to Article 127. The bill and we think it's the basic principle of transparency, that simple procurement plans are found on that public procurement portal and that everyone has a chance to make an insight, see if anything is justified, if anything makes sense. Of course, these sublegislative acts regulate what will be in these plans, what will be presented, do not have to be quantities, do not have to be values, although, since we have a little dispute here, I think even all the ministries and a lot of public enterprises in their informers publish these procurement plans that they are obliged to bring, so that they have no reason to be hidden from the eyes of the public. This is just one way and one way more transparent, so anyone who wants can see. It does not say that bidders can, because it will be transparent, public, available to everyone, to negotiate, to prepare. We think there's no reason to hide from the eyes of the public, that we all need to know, and the media and NGOs, that in time we warn if something is not justified, because the practice has so far shown that there have been some public procurements that were completely unspeakable. Once again, I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't all vote in the voting day, simply because the basic principle is the transparency of this bill, so we're going to stay at the end of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9603	I apologize, Mr. Radenkovic, for reading it. It says wrong information here. I read in the beginning that the proposaler's representative accepted the amendment, and since you didn't accept the amendment, then what you said agrees, and then this is a mistake in the material that I got. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee accepted the amendment. So, because of the stenogram, I have to repeat that the amendment to Article 51, with the correction submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic, was not accepted by the representative, and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what my colleague Radenkovic says, in theory, he seems right. Unfortunately, in real real life things are a little different. I'm just going to give you one example that I know of. Three companies can deal with the construction of roads on Braničevsky County territory. The Fire Department for Public Procurement reports, for example, that it paves 20 blocks. All three bidders show up and all three get jobs. What's that job look like? The first bidder to get a job hires another bidder as a subcontractor. The second bidder who gets the job hires a third bidder as a performer, and the third person who gets the job hires the first as a subcontractor. What is it, a deal? By centralising public procurement, we prevent public procurement from being the subject of 20 small public procurements, not small values, but depreciated ones, where they could only compete, firstly, those three enterprises, but also the other, on the one hand, and on the other hand prevent them from negotiating, sharing the market and sharing the business. The biggest problem besides having a few elements, the current law, a couple of corrupt elements, is that there was not enough competition on the market in its application. If you announce public procurement one year ahead, trust me, they'll have plenty of time to sit down, make arrangements, establish their every offer and get a job that way. It is not for us that everyone participates in the procurement process and that everyone gets a job, but is aimed at getting the services or works done in the real value that is on the market, and not at someone else that is much more deviating from market values because there was no competition on the market. There's one part, let's say, that applies to that, so if they've agreed so far, they will from now on. I accept that too, but they won't know what will be the subject of public procurement in the next period and will protect their interest, not the interest of others. That's why I couldn't accept this amendment as a proposing representative. If we were a country that has far more effective construction, or service providers, or so forth, then that would be possible, but for now we are small and like the market, and we are small with potentials that can be the subject of public procurement, or those who can do the job for public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9605	Thank you. Mr. Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9606	I don't think these arguments stand because it's simply a goal to increase the number of bidders, not to remain behind the scenes, that whoever brings the plan knows and to inform certain bidders of what is in the plan and when it is planned and that some are prepared for the procurement, and that others are surprised, unprepared and that they have to simply participate in this public procurement process. Secondly, I think they'll get, I say, the possibility again that the media, and the general public, point to some unnecessary public procurement at a time when the public is alarmed, the media. So, certain public enterprises, the ministries will have to withdraw and give up the procurement that is not simply necessary and is not in line with this government's policy either. So I don't think they're standing. Why? When you increase the number of bidders, as much competition as possible, it makes sense that you will come. Not all bidders from all areas can make arrangements and propose, so that would be easier because only those who know in advance, who have inside information, will agree to prepare for these purchases. So we don't see any reason for these procurement plans to be published in some extent as the sublegal act is regulated. They don't have to be quantities, but if we see that some company that's been dealing with losses for next year, so for that year to plan to get a car, if it were worth it, we'd see what the value was for those cars, of course the general public wouldn't warn, that I wouldn't now name some companies that in practice exist, that are losers, then they're getting luxury cars and they're sharing thirteen salaries, etc., that I'm not getting into the details now. So, I just think this would be really about preventing some abuse. Of course, we're open to every controversy. We're in the mood for every discussion. If there are real arguments, I will stand up here and say that I am wrong and that it should simply remain out of the public's eyes, broad folk masses. Once again, I say and express the view of the SPS that simple procurement plans should be found on the public procurement portal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9607	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9608	Those remarks would stand, but provided we don't already have a bill and prior notice that has an obligation to publish. So insider information can't serve someone to narrow down competition in the procurement process. So there's more procedures, but there won't be enough time, or we're looking at as little time as possible for arrangements as possible for who needs to get a job, who doesn't. Be safe, so I'm telling you, I've watched the paperwork from the procurement process several times. You can't believe what they're willing to do. Yeah, let's just say someone doesn't write a complaint to the commission. He's promised the next public procurement he'll get and he's got a job. That's why we want to prevent this possibility of a deal, that we don't know what's going to be the next subject of public procurement until that public procurement comes into one procedure where everyone can participate. Believe me, don't think if anyone can get ready or not. Today, the situation on the market is such that literally everyone who wants to participate in the procurement process, offer their goods or services, and that they are ready because there is no job, seems to me to be the largest employer in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9609	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9610	I mean, Mr. Arsic, to take a break, to get you to agree among 130 proposings, I think that would be the order. Otherwise, we support this amendment by colleagues Radenkovic, he is good, he allows the public to see some things and, besides, ask the citizens of us, that's what you promised. I don't see what's going on here. By the way, I wanted to ask you, if you could speak a little louder, because we can't hear here, so brother to brother, 70% of what you say. Maybe that unit of yours is broken. But let me use it when I'm talking, to ask or to speak louder or somehow to approach the microphone, because we really don't hear what you're saying here, and it's important that we hear it. So again, we have one piece of evidence here about something that isn't insignificant at all, which is very important, which is in the spirit of what you've been saying, you promised, where we don't have an agreement among the legislators of this law. One hundred thirty MPs supported him, and without the SPS, you don't have a majority, and you have a discrepancy. Or arrange to take a break. We're going to vote for this amendment, but I think it's kind of unworthy that the proposings present a different view of something that really helps to make the process transparent, to put things on the portal where they belong. Of course there will be problems and of course it's not easy, but my God, those are your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9611	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do I hear from you now? Okay. When I listen to the presentation of the previous speaker, I ask myself, what happens when an MP of the DS has tabled an amendment to the bill proposed by DS, or Mirko Cvetkovic, and defended him here in the Assembly and voted for him, unlike the rest of the parliamentary group. This did not raise a single question at any time whether the government or the coalition was functioning or not. Every MP who's signed this bill is the legislator of this law. He had the right to participate in his adoption, some to participate, some not, some to make their remarks, but in principle they agreed to the law. Believe me, it would be ugly to forbid the Members of the People to submit amendments to this law. Even those who have supported the bill in principle, that is their parliamentary right. That's why they were elected, so the MPs after who knows how long they propose a law in the National Assembly without the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are the ones who make laws, we are the ones who propose laws, we are the ones who decide these laws on our own, we are the ones who are now the first to act as the National Assembly to control the government, not as during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic to control the National Assembly. Unfortunately, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9613	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9614	It is not under the Constitution, nor is it possible that the Government is controlling the Assembly. Maybe it's some unfulfilled fantasies from your ranks. What is certain, to remind you, and also because of the citizens who are watching this, the facts are the following - 138 MPs of the ruling majority have proposed this law, not the Government, Mr Arsic, in order for the citizens to understand. The government has too often avoided showing up here in front of the MPs. You should ask them, like us, what's the reason? You will say - well, we are messengers. Yes, of course you have the right to do so, and it's not a bad practice at all, but I don't think that when something so pompous is announced, when something is the subject of all your speeches in pre-election campaigns, in all possible preparations, and I'm not talking about the fact that we expected the law to fall on everyone's nose, and no one from the government suggested it, but 138 MPs among whom there is now disagreement over one amendment that is not meaningless. We support that amendment. Instead of making a deal now, you're putting us in an awkward situation so that every time we have to see and confirm that this majority of yours is bicep, as the prime minister said, or two-headed, to translate into Serbian. If you're two-headed, put yourself in one more head. Don't make us ask you that all the time, we're wasting our time. I think too often, Mr. Arsic, I appreciate your work and everything, but I repeat again, firstly, we have heard you better, go on like this, and secondly - don't remind us, please, of what the previous government is. Serbian citizens have given you greater support, and we are now the opposition. I don't know how much longer you want us to file for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9615	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Word by MP Veroljub Arsic I have to give my word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Dejan Radenkovic, from the post: I have a replica after previous presentation.]] The first priority is to propose an act when it logs in. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask that the MPs of the DS take no note of the things that are happening in this coalition when it comes to at least one amendment and one disagreement. What we agree on is strategic matters, which is the fight against organised crime and corruption, the start of Serbia's EU membership negotiation process and the resolution of the AP KIM issue under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, as you call it, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you again of a saying – first, sort things out in your backyard, and then look into someone else's. Because as far as I know, as far as I can tell, you're going to have from your MP group, or you're going to make three or four or five, I just don't know what that MP group's called.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9617	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9618	I'm glad there's a constructive debate here about what's right and what's wrong. We don't need to make a difference right now if someone's a pronoun, and in the meantime he saw something wrong, that it could be complemented, that it was done, that a failure was made. That's why here we're talking and there's a lot of things that can get out of the discussion, that maybe even in the meantime, some more amendments can be accepted. It does not stand at all, it is not your finding, colleague Stefanovic, because I sincerely hope that you, since you will vote in favour of this amendment, will also vote in favour of the law. I don't see any reason why you don't vote to bring order into public finances, to control budget spending. It's just that I think it's okay to achieve one unity, that we all advocate the introduction of order in this area, because we know that corruption is an evil that can really bring down the entire system and the whole state. I think that's what we really need to have unique support about. I'm going back to publishing the procurement plan. I can give you as many examples as you want. If it had been for this, there wouldn't have been many abuses. I'll give you an example. Over the past few years behind us, the urgency of a procedure has been carried out. The Commission and the inspection have concluded that because of the collapse of the ceiling and everything, one school has to be restored urgently. A certain negotiating emergency procedure has been completed, $30 million has been arranged there, so the annexes are another ten, so no one could wash it out anymore. It is provided in the Assembly, it is indicated in public etc. I don't want to tell you how they were sent and sent to whom they sent the call for participation. They've been sent to a company that's tending to do this job and two that I still don't believe today that anyone can find and that they could work at all, and they've been invited to do it. If it had been published on the portal or in public, if we had had this public procurement portal institute and this decision to publish the procurement plan on it, perhaps the public would have warned in time that there was no need for that procurement. Then we'd be able to get all that money, that 30 million or 40 million or more, I could never get that information as far as it was...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9619	Time, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9620	I have time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9621	No, you have a replica, and the replica lasts two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9622	Please just let me finish. So, then we'd decide to define ourselves for more schools that are in a bad situation, and I'm talking about Kim specifically, and then a lot of schools might even turn around and fix up, and it wouldn't just crash into one school. That's it. Once again, I think this is okay. We don't have to move around here anymore in the O.R., we can exchange opinions like this right now, so to move on, there are more amendments. Simply, if there are really legitimate arguments, I'll withdraw, but justifiable arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9623	The People's Messenger, Dejan Mihajlov, has his word by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9624	I'm reporting under Article 27. - chaired by the chair of the session. I don't understand one thing, Mr. Radenkovic is the legislator of this law. Right? Yes, it is. It doesn't matter who's authorized, you're the legislator. The committee adopted the amendment. According to our Rules of Procedure, when the Committee adopts the amendment and when the proposing agrees with the amendment, and Mr Radenkovic is one of the 138, he becomes an integral part of the text of the bill. We're completely wasting our time here at the hearing. Mr. Radenkovic is the promoter. That's how it stands here, he's one of the promoters, one of the signatories. According to the Rules of Procedure, if the Committee accepts it and accepts it, I have that information, it becomes an integral part of the bill. Either the Rules of Procedure are unclear in this section in which it refers to the need for all 138 proposings individually to declare whether they accept this amendment by calling, maybe it's best, and then to continue, or this amendment is an integral part of the bill and then we move on, not to waste time on this. I expect an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9625	Mr. Michael, I have to admit, I'm a little caught up, but as far as I can tell, the amendment doesn't seem to have been accepted. I ask Mr. Arsic to be clear, because, as far as I understand it, no matter what it says, the amendment is not accepted. Mr. Arsic, is the amendment accepted or not accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9626	Let me get this straight. Now that I see Mr. Michael's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I now understand what laws we passed while he was a secretary in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In our Rules of Procedure, the legislator of the law, or the authorised representative of the Proposer, writes nicely. That's what's going through that whole term. From that 1st point of view, each of the following positions shall be applied to that article. But when you interpret the Rules of Procedure like that, really, how did you bring laws to the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9627	Thank you. The word is Dejan Michael, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9628	Mr. Arsic, when you don't know what to say, you say something stupid. You have not answered my question, and the laws that have been passed in our time and during our government, all the governments, and all the laws that we have supported, are the laws that have received support in this assembly, these MPs. Also, as with this law, they had a committee with the ministry, which referred to its agreement and compliance with EU regulations and with modern legislation. These are the laws that are being promoted and that are building, that are creating this country. Among other laws, the most important law has been passed, it is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so I don't think the objection is appropriate. As for the second, Mr. Radenkovic is the promoter. It may be unspeakable from our Rules of Procedure, but that's the way it is. He's like one of the motions, he proposed an amendment, and the board accepted it. I don't know, here's a look, bill promoters, standing here, Dejan Radenkovic, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, 138 legislators, is that right? You are an authorised promoter, but he is a representative of the Proposer. He is the legislator, and he has the same right to accept some amendment as the legislator, because he has 138. The subjectivity of the legislator is divided into 138 MPs who have signed. You represent them. But if he, as one of the promoters, agrees with the amendment and proposes an amendment, the committee adopts it, then maybe it's a situation we haven't had here before. But that amendment, simply by applying our Rules of Procedure, where the Proposer is in agreement with it, should be adopted as well. You're a representative of all of them here, but he obviously had an opinion, he proposed an amendment. The board adopted it, we have a situation that is a little strange and unconventional in our rules of procedure, but then you sit down, agree, let Mr Radenkovic give up the amendment, which is not a question to us, but what we're going to do is adopt it. Here, there's Mrs. Comic, who's been vice president of the assembly for a long time. This is still the situation that has become our parliamentary practice so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9629	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9630	It's simple for me, Mr. Chairman, unpleasant, on the one hand. On the other hand, I'm very comfortable, and I feel like I'm being bicep in this situation, because we as DS can actually, in a way, be pleased to see that the Proposer can't even agree on this issue, and at the same time, the DSS rightly points to an obvious failure. We support them in that. It's not convenient for us to listen to these Greek words between them, when they're supposed to build a common platform tomorrow. According to Mr. Petkovic, he will be in power in the next government very quickly, so he may not. What I wanted to say through the replica, I answered the line, Mr. Arsic, who thinks he sees very well what the problem is in this case, because this is a good amendment accepted by the board and the proposing, I don't understand, why you personally won't accept it, or among you there are those who will and those who won't accept it? So please make it clear to each other. Another thing, when you clear that up, you let us know. We will support this amendment and please, don't talk about the courtyards again and don't clean the yard. We're all in the same yard, called Serbia. You've got that broom to clean up now. You're doing it as well as you can, so far you don't know, but if you're talking about sharing parliamentary groups, you're talking about it from personal experience. Don't tell us these things when we're more unique than ever. That's what citizens see. Do you know why? The more you push and attack, the stronger we get.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9631	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic as a proposal, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really surprised at the broad interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. The promoter is not one MP, but 138. If one MP agrees with something, it doesn't mean it's in agreement with 137. Our Rules of Procedure say nicely in Article 164 – the legislator, a group of 138 MPs, or an authorised representative of the promoter. So it's not Mr. One Proposer, it's 138. Those 138 have determined who will represent them in this congregation. Don't argue about it anymore. In addition, it will be the Parliament in voting day to decide what the amendment will be about. As far as discussions related to the courtyard in Serbia and the broom are concerned, the broom was most often during the past government at the registers. Only, unlike the previous government, this government will not clear Serbia, but rather change Serbia for the better, make it, make it, not destroy it as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9633	Thank you. The word is Zoran Ostojić. Here you go. (Jovan Palalic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9634	Replica? I'm disciplined, I don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9635	Mr. Staying, did you ask for a word by amendment or is it a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9636	By amendment. Forty-five minutes waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9637	It's not worth it, see how many replicas there are. The word is John Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9638	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, any topic to be found in the National Assembly or in the public, the DSS really wants to approach and discuss seriously and contribute to the resolution of Kosovo's subject, which is mentioned here, of course, the Public Procurement Act, in a better way. As for the mention of the DSS in the context of participation in the contribution to bringing the KiM platform to the National Assembly, I believe that our contribution will be such that all the bad things that were done during the previous government, all of that policy on KIM that happened during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic, that all these wrong agreements that were adopted, are now corrected by a new document that will be adopted by the National Assembly. We believe our contribution will change these policies, bad policies, be stopped right now. We will make our contribution in this regard. As far as this debate is concerned, it's about the Rules of Procedure, you know what? It has 138 representatives. I ask the question, have all 137 representatives of the motionors declared themselves to this amendment, or is that the position of the proposing representative himself? We heard the position of the promoter's representative, we don't know, perhaps the SPS Parliament Club was completely solidarity with counterpart Radenkovic. Everyone might have supported it. This means that the support of this proposal, this amendment, is different, or is only the position of colleagues of Arsic, as representatives. I ask you to determine the position of all 137 other proposing representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9639	Thank you. The word has Dejan Radenkovic, a replica, and then the replica Borislav Stefanovic again. I guess we'll end up with the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9640	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, I'm going to finish and I'm not going to get any more of this. I think we've completely banished this debate. I am one of the promoters, and we have an opinion and we need to discuss it. It's okay, we've heard the difference of opinion, and it's not good to abuse this amendment, so let's go so far as to understand whether this government is like this, or if it's like this, if there's unity or if there's no unity. It's not a little bit of an amendment, is it? There have been many cases in the past, says counterpart Arsic, and a proposal for an DS amendment, so they are not accepted by the promoter, so it did not mean that it was a disunity. There were also cases that a parliamentary group, which is in the coalition in power, would not vote for something or be held back, so the government lasted four years and there were no problems. If it's a matter of listening or not listening, let me tell you the truth, when the newly elected president of a party says that someone is returning the mandates, it's probably their turn to listen to the party president and listen to him and do it because he doesn't lead to the story of your unity. What I must say is, if the committee has accepted the amendment, it does not oblige the Proponent to adopt it and accept it, so in the voting day we will plead. Whoever wants to vote yes, vote. (President: I ask the People's Messengers for silence. Thank you, Vice President. I don't really want to do that. I'm putting a dot here. I'm going to use these 10 more seconds to commend the working group that's been working on this bill for a long time. We as a parliamentary group and as a party have made our contribution to simply putting into effect a law that can seriously put order into public finances, in public procurement, because corruption is a monster of our society. It's just, I think this law needs everyone to vote absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9641	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, replica. We're done with the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9642	Then may I mention the names of the MPs? Thank you. So, Mr. Radenkovic, this has been moving to listen, indeed. The man submits the amendment and then says – people, it's not that important. Well, it doesn't matter much from your political history, but they broke their backs to the Serbian people out of it. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. That's a fact. Therefore, that degree of democracy and calling for a return of office or not, when you achieve it on your main board, then come forward, and exercise, because that will certainly happen with you. Practice. Practice if you need every weekend what it looks like. If you've practiced this before, you can apply it very easily now. I don't think it was correct, you'll agree, Chairman, that this sort of thing... (President: Mr Stefanovic, please, I am counting on your correctness in the style of expression. ) You had to react the moment it was carried out, but it's already an unfortunate thing. The second thing, during the DS authorities, was that the MP tabled an amendment on the proposal for a proposal, but the motion was a government, Mr Radenkovic. You have 138 MPs who have submitted the bill. You submitted the amendment to yourself, and then you told us that the amendment was good, and we said it was good. After that you said it wasn't that important, we have unity. As loud as you say you have unity, we're sure you don't have it. The more you yell, the more we know you don't have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9643	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Zoran Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9644	Thank you. This is an important amendment. I volunteered for the amendment almost an hour ago to get involved. But there was a lot of noise in this hour. A lot of people will be happy when that 11th and the platform comes. If this amendment is such a debate among MPs in the ruling majority, what will be about the platform? It's probably more important for many of these amendments than the platforms. Here are the specifics. Radenkovic is one hundred and thirty-seven legislators, and Arsic is the representative of all 138. For example, Mr. Arsenovic is also one hundred thirty-seven. When I'm done, you could say how you feel about the amendment. Here is the dispute over whether the amendment has become part of the law, i.e. whether it has been accepted by the Committee or will vote on the amendment when it is voted on on the oath, if I understand it correctly. If it's part of the law, it won't vote. If you are reading the Rules of Procedure, it says there – the legislator or the authorised representative. I do not interpret that an authorised representative may, at any time, decide on behalf of the promoter. Or am I wrong? Maybe when an authorised minister comes in front of the government, absolutely without a government, he can do whatever he wants, but the government doesn't vote, MPs vote. I don't know how you're going to get out of this, but it's clear why this law isn't the government's law, it's Parliament law. It is not true that MPs did not propose laws. counterpart Ranka Savic recently proposed the Law on Amendments to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. There were MPs' laws. It is unusual for the ruling majority to propose parliamentary laws because it has a government, but if we listen to this debate about this important amendment, then it is clear why the government couldn't even propose it, but never mind, let's get back to the point. I listened carefully to the arguments. If the essence is transparency of public procurement, the absolutely Radenkovic amendment is acceptable, better and you should accept it. Mr. Arsic, don't be angry. Your only argument against publishing a public procurement plan was that they could negotiate. For example, three road companies in Braničev County will be able to make some kind of agreement on what is controversial in the agreement if it does not raise the price of public procurement, but, on the other hand, the public procurement plan will undoubtedly increase competition in public procurement. In Braničevski County, a company in Novi Pazar can report for the trip and win at a price. That's why I think it's absolutely acceptable for the amendment and that you, as proponents of all the other 100ths, need to accept that amendment, because it really raises transparency, increases competition and removes what Radenkovic is right to talk about, which is that whoever knows the purchase plan, which is not published, can trade that information or in some way make that information available to one who would participate, and the other would not. Obviously, this is a very important thing, when a spear is broken between you and we have come up with all sorts of things that have been heard in the debate, what is happening on the DS Committee or on the desire of the DSS to contribute to the platform on Kosovo. This will be such a contribution that the people will indeed rejoice, when you too will dispute about it. That's why I think you should think about it one more time. After all, you can't avoid it. When the amendment is voted on, all the 100ths will vote as they will, and since some of the opposition MPs will vote, that amendment may pass on to you even if you do not want to. That puts the ruling majority at risk, which I'm glad. I volunteered to calm you down, although I would prefer that the consequences of my discussion be a continuation of the controversy, but in any case, I wanted to say that your arguments as an opposition MP did not convince me, because the only argument that some will agree on. Well? Let them make a deal. What's controversial is that three toll companies agree, unless it raises the price of public procurement. It's better, but that's why there might be a fourth one that'll clean them out of that tender, because they'll say what you've agreed, so commission to everyone, I do, I'm cheaper and they do. So I think that transparency, greater competitiveness and especially the exclusion of trade in information will be then and then the public procurement that someone may receive, so that it can be prepared, and the other one will not get, is absolutely speaking in favour of Mr Radenkovic's amendment, and you, Mr Arsenovic, use the microphone and say, as 130 eighths of the promoter, what are you for?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9645	I ask the MPs not to analyse how anyone will vote and how many votes they will vote. In voting day we'll see, so don't suggest. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9646	Thank you, General, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the whole story of a turnaround in the domain of public finances, which law will provide, what do we realize? We find that last night, Mr. Arsic, you did not hear absolutely well-founded arguments from our cultural public. You don't accept the amendment to prove the right way to save. This amendment, unless you accept what the parent committee has supported, which obviously the opposition parties will support, and by all accounts, at least one party without which you have no majority to vote on this law, there is no reason not to accept an amendment that goes towards what you said should be the key objective of this law, which is the fight against corruption and transparency. I'm sorry that we in the DS haven't proposed such an amendment, but we're ready to support the amendment proposed by the SPS, for the reason that we've seen from experience for the past 10 years that much greater risk is what's happening in reality, which is that some know when it's going to be that tender. That some can do much better to prepare for it, that some actually negotiate with some how they will perform in that tender, and that many others who would be competitors know nothing about it, but some conceited and risk, that when there is already open information, someone can abuse it. You can't have a divided philosophy, you can't say in all these members of the law that we'll agree that everything is published on the portal, and then you support the committee amendment that there's not just one port, but two portals, because that's what the official messenger portal would add. Then in just one piece that's very important, which is to know what's going to be bought in a given year, you say it's harmful. It just doesn't stand. For that reason, Mr. Arsic, I think as one of the 130-eightth promoters, it's very important that you recognize when there's a power of argument that exceeds any possible idea or vanity or I don't know what. Don't stay remembered as people who refused the mechanism to show their savings, like people who didn't realize that in the year, in which the culture budget was very reduced, support cultural workers and here not to listen to the arguments of all of your majority, quite flimsy, as we can see from the opposition. Accept an amendment that is good for Serbia and for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9647	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9648	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as one of the 138 who signed on the bill of this law, I must say I am amazed at this amendment. By interpreting the difference in one group made up of 138. I am amazed that parties that call themselves democratic, which in their name have the word democratic, dispute the right to differ in one group. So democracy is a wealth of differences and respect for differences. Just because you see the differences between 138 MPs through one amendment doesn't mean you see divisions. The differences and they shared two special concepts...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9649	Please, Rističević, don't run an analysis. Please change to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9650	It would be good if you applied this same thing, and when some pale border guards say, if you applied it to them, I don't believe there are two Rules of Procedures. What's allowed for others, I guess, is allowed for me. It would be good if you warned the predecessor who spoke of Kosovo and I don't know what, that you warned him. I'm trying to talk about an amendment that is proposed for public procurement planning, and the objections we've heard from the opponents that this amendment that has been tabled by one of the promoters, that it's some dissension, that it's some division, etc. I'm trying to fit in as part of this debate, if you'll excuse me. What they looked like, those differences, I can look at them. Especially with the planning of public procurement. These are your men, two of your men. One is the head of the municipality, and the other is the director of a public enterprise, where the president of the municipality forced the director of a public enterprise to plan and implement the purchases of more expensive business space. When this guy refused, he was relieved. So unlike you, we don't all think with one head. Everyone thinks of their own, hence this amendment and hence this little difference. If you're thinking with your leader's head, that's your problem. There's also something said here that I can't get past, that we've cracked our backs to the people. It wasn't the people who broke their backs, it was you. You wouldn't have millionaires here today, you wouldn't have made the president a billionaire if you hadn't robbed this people, or if he hadn't been robbed during your reign.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9651	Please, let's respect each other and move on to the agenda. The agenda is an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9652	An amendment to public procurement planning. I was talking about, that there was a little difference, that we'd been resented everything and everything, that we'd been resented for breaking our backs to the people, I'm saying they didn't, that it was from the former government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9653	The word is by MP Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't get it, I'm reporting for a violation of article 164. Rules of Procedure. Is this amendment adopted or not? I read this proposal carefully. There is neither that he was accepted nor that he was rejected. This technical support for the monitoring of work under the amendments states that it has been accepted. So I'd like to definitely know what's going on with that amendment. Is there at all any coordination between the proposings and the MPs, between the proposings individually, 138 and the authorised representative, because there is obviously some gaps around all of this. It's very important that we know what's going on with this amendment. When you hold a session, it would be good to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is respected. It will be respected if this Article 164 is taken into account.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9655	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9656	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 104 and 107. The previous speaker spoke out of the question, and in an extremely offensive way he addressed the MPs, addressed the MPs directly, and presented complete untrueness in the National Assembly. From a political point of view, we agree that this MP speaks as much as possible because he represents the beautiful face of the ruling coalition. Please, every time I appear traditionally, and I will ask every chairman to warn and give notice to that MP because I consider it to be a small but harmful segment of the Assembly, otherwise it seems to me to be a very constructive atmosphere of democratic conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9657	Your duty to the previous speaker, based on which you have advertised the Rules of Procedure, has been repeatedly warned. I thought his words had not yet reached that level to give him a warning. I'm trying to make these criminal provisions as little as possible so far you know I haven't given anyone a warning. I'll keep doing that as long as I can with you to establish a normal communicative relationship. That's how it's been so far. I'll avoid it. I'm not eager for any punishment. I think it's much nicer if we have a constructive discussion. She'll only depend on how the MPs behave. At least it's up to me. I'm sure at some point I'll have to apply that method that's not popular, but there will be. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9658	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 108th and 109th. Rules of Procedure. Article 108 reads - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman of this case, rather than one of the MPs. That's one. Article 109 speaks about when warnings are made to the MP. I have repeatedly been warned to return to the agenda and I have talked about planning on public procurement, by commenting only on what was said from this parliamentary group. I didn't make anything up. As for some harmful segment, etc., an impure face, I wouldn't talk about it. It's about who's saying it's me. I'm talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that it should have been by article 109 to give a warning to a MP who called me a harmful segment. [[President: Don't cross the line now. You can only talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.]] I didn't establish a border with Edith Tahiri. I didn't establish the border with Thaci. I didn't hurt constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty. Someone else did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9659	Mr. Risticevic, I think I made a good comment. I think I did the right thing, and I let you advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You may ask us to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9660	I'm not looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9661	Proposer of the law, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's finally solve this enigma of who is the promoter, who is the applicant of the amendment, etc. The bill was proposed by 138 MPs. That's what you should know. What is the amendment tabled by the legislator? The amendment should be written by 138 MPs to sign it. Otherwise you can't call the pronoun of who's one of those 138 or five or ten. They are only MPs at that time and they are not invited to submit amendments, they are not called on to submit as mandated representatives of the legislator or legislator, but as MPs. This is regulated by Article 151(5) and Article 164(1) to (3). What are we discussing here now? As for the amendment itself and those who advocate from the opposition, I recommend that they read the whole law because Article 59 says – the orderer is obliged to publish at least once a year at the beginning of the year a prior notification of the intention to conduct the procurement procedure. There's no way that someone can't be ready for that public procurement, you just don't know when public procurement will be advertised to initiate the procedure. That's the goal, so nobody hides what's going to be done, it's just not smart to know when it's going to be done. In order to initiate the procurement procedure, you must first, and this is regulated by Article 55, to give a prior notice. I think we finally put an end to this story. Anyone who wants to do politics can go on. I don't mind, but the law is also in that technical section entirely filled with the conditions you've talked about so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9663	Kenan Hajdarevic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9664	The President-in-Office, Article 164(1) says – the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator and the committee in charge, are considering the amendments submitted to the draft law. Here we have received the opinion of the legislator, where a group of 138 MPs are said to have been considering amendments to the Public Procurement Act in order to give an opinion to the National Assembly on 27 December. This means that a group of 138 legislators yesterday had a meeting or a session where they discussed amendments and gave an opinion on each amendment, and we have no written on this opinion what the legislator, 138 MPs think about Dejan Radenkovic's amendment – whether it is accepted or rejected and what reasons are for accepting, or for refusing. That amendment is absolutely not in this opinion. In this technical paper that allows us to follow the session, we have that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment. Since you are also the chairman of the amendment, you must have attended the meeting yesterday and then certainly voted on this amendment, so you can finally inform us how many MPs voted in favour of this amendment, or it was against and what reasons were either for or against.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9665	Mr. Hajdarevic, this is not about any meeting of the proposing representatives. It is a session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. On that committee, the Committee accepted the amendment, but the proposing representative refused. The report by the Committee made the mistake of accepting the proposal. As a result, professional services have inserted into the material that the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. It's a mistake, really. I have to say it one more time. The committee was voted on, as much as I remember 5:4 for the adoption of this amendment. One who voted in favour of this amendment is also a representative of the opposition. Here you go, Mr. Hajdarevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9666	The chairman, I'm talking about the proponent's opinion, 138 MPs. Last night, we got the proposal's opinion. It clearly states here that a group of 138 MPs were considering amendments to give an opinion on 27 December. I'm not talking about the Finance Committee, I'm talking about some meeting of a group of 138 MPs yesterday where you sat down and discussed these amendments and gave an opinion. In this opinion it is not written or accepted, nor is the amendment of Dejan Radenkovic rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9667	Mr. Arsic, unless one of these people is reported to be in the Rules of Procedure. It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9668	I'd like to go back again, that when it comes to the political part, we stop. I don't mind if 138 MPs have the authority of someone else at this point to be a representative of the promoter. I don't mind, it's my colleagues' right and if they say, I don't mind. As a proposing representative, at the Committee session, I did not agree with the amendment tabled by Mr Radenkovic and did not vote in favour of the amendment. Let's get this straight. The fact that it was a technical mistake, I don't want to talk about it, but in light of this amendment, it says that the amendment is not accepted. It says, read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9669	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9670	The amendment currently under review obviously has a double problem. One is content itself. I belong to a parliamentary group in which most agree that the content is such that we will vote in favour of the amendment because it is public procurement. The second is procedural, because the Bureau of Preparation can't provide the president or the chairman with information that the proposer has accepted the amendment if there is no report on it. Since we have now heard that the report has been delivered by mistake to the Assembly’s Committee on Preparation, I must express my suspicion, knowing the well - being and safe work of the National Assembly’s service, which leads both committees and guides and the Department for Preparation of Sessions of the Assembly. When such a procedural disturbance arises to clearly determine whether or not the promoter has accepted the amendment, then perhaps it would not be bad to consult and the committee responsible to give its interpretation of what happened. What is important is that we all in this room know that the procedure, that the report of the committee responsible, which was delivered to the Bureau for the preparation of the assembly sessions, contained the view that the motioner had accepted the amendment. I am not going to accept or accept the amendment at all, but I think it is important for all of us to make this situation clear. I have no doubts about the professionality, security or service, or the secretary of the board, and even less about the Office for the Preparation of Assembly Sessions, but I argue that, instead of a clear clarification, we are offered an explanation that MP Dejan Radenkovic is an amendment that is good for us and which is good for his content not as a proposaler, but as a national MP. This little exceeds the frameworks in which anything can be explained, especially as this is not the first case that MPs propose laws, but is at least the sixth or seventh, one of the first ones in which I do not participate, but let's say the State Auditor Act, the MPs signed and submitted the proposal to the Assembly and the MPs of the opposition and the current ruling majority. We had a similar case that after the final proposal one of us signatories wanted to submit the amendment. And yes, if you sign as a group of MPs a bill, then you are obliged to do the debate within that group, as we did when it came to the Law on the National Assembly, the Law on the State Auditor, the Law on the Protector of Citizens, so all those laws in which MPs participated during the drafting. The will of the group that has proposed the law is whether or not it will accept the amendment of one of its proposings, but the rules of compliance with the procedure cannot depend either on the will of the promoter, authorized or not, nor can it depend on the will of any of those who have signed the bill currently under investigation. I think we would completely leave out any doubt that the president or the secretary would simply take a business orderly manner to make this dilemma clear whether or not a valid report has been delivered to the Office for Preparation of Sessions in a clear, procedurally clean manner. We can all benefit from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9671	Mr. Hajdarevic, did you want to follow the Rules of Procedure? (Kenan Hajdarevic, from town: Replica. ) Then you must wait for Mr. Arsic as a representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9672	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I listen to my colleagues, and I do not remember that in this assembly on the tide, here, a representative of the promoters sat down, that the MPs persuaded him to accept the amendment, that they persuaded him to accept the amendment, that at that moment he called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because she was the representative, she was the promoter, and the Prime Minister from the Government was the representative of the promoter, that the promoter, or the Government sat down and agreed with the amendment. I don't remember that ever happening. I cannot believe that you now expect that if one of the 138 proposings submits an amendment, that he is the legislator of the whole law, in the sense that he has the right to change the law of these amendments as he wills. So, the procedure is - if you want the draft law to submit an amendment, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia the amendment writes the Government at the session, adopts it at the session, delivers it to the National Assembly, and in this case 138 MPs have to sign the amendment in order to be the amendment of the Proposer. Only the authorised representative of the legislator can act for all other actions. It's a practice that's existed for years. Are we gonna change that? Why? Because it's also regulated by Article 164. Rules of Procedure. So, the legislator, then sits down, say, all 138 MPs and decides which amendment will be accepted or not as a legislator, or an authorised representative of the promoter, if there are no other 137 MPs. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9673	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9674	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 27 and 103, paragraphs 5. Rules of Procedure, I have just before advertised the Rules of Procedure and have not received a reply from the chairman, and this Article 103, paragraph 5, obliges him that unless he considers that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he will explain it to me. He didn't answer at all. Therefore, if silence is considered a confirmation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, that means that the chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in that case, you should set a break and instruct the legislator of this law to emulate his opinion with what we have here as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So it's very important and it's very embarrassing for me to insist that the law is respected and this Rules of Procedure respected. It is very clear in Article 164 how an opinion is given. So, if the amendment is adopted, it is written – it is adopted, and if it is not adopted, it is written – no. It is precisely a member of the law to which the amendment has been submitted and what is happening to it. In fact, we don't have an opinion on the amendment. I'm not talking about these technical things. I'm talking about opinion. Mr. Arsic, you really didn't understand anything about how we advertised the Rules of Procedure, because of something you missed out on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9675	Don't talk to Mr. Arsic, since...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9676	I don't even think I see him from the pay phone, Mr. President. I just named him and his last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9677	Don't speak to him personally. You have requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in a breach of the Rules of Procedure you can speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure which has been done by the Chairman or the President of the National Assembly in his conduct. You'll wait for me to warn you of what you need to say. You're supposed to be talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, I'm really advertising Article 27, and you didn't let me finish. Here, I will not mention the name of the gentleman representing this law as a representative of the motionary. You don't understand, you can't talk about it, because Mr. Arsic or any other MP can't do any harm to the Rules of Procedure. Only the president or chairman of the National Assembly can do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9679	I didn't say he hurt her. Absolutely not. I'm talking to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9680	I'm just telling you. You're talking to him. Do you really think that most of the People's Assembly do not understand that you abuse the Rules of Procedure and use it as a replica? You abuse the rights that the Rules of Procedure gives you. I'll punish you for that in the future and tell you I won't allow it anymore. Now, I ask you, that the debate be returned to normal flows and that in calling for infringements of the Rules of Procedure, follow the business provisions and I will stick to the business provisions that say that the President of the National Assembly is in charge of the session and that he can give disciplinary measures to those who violate and abuse business provisions. Believe it will be extremely firm and principled.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9681	I agree with you that you respect this Rules of Procedure and that you lead it in accordance with Article 37.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9682	I'm sorry. Your time is up. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. You don't want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9683	Mr President, the previous 15 minutes have asked the LDP MPs a simple question – what about the legislator's explanation, 138 MPs on Mr Dejan Radenkovic's amendment? We have a proposal here, where it is said that a meeting was held yesterday, I guess in the Small Hall Assembly, all 138 proposings, where they discussed the amendments and where they delivered their opinions to the National Assembly on these amendments. In this opinion, there is absolutely no amendment to Dejan Radenkovic. We don't know if the amendment has been accepted, or if it has been rejected and what are the reasons for that? Mr. President, you're one of those 138 who's the legislator and you must have attended yesterday's meeting. Can someone finally tell us from the ruling coalition's representatives when the meeting was held, as this amendment was voted on, whether the amendment was accepted or rejected, how much voted for, how many against and what reasons? That's why we're asking for a break, or for you to deliver to us in writing, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 164. There is no amendment to Dejan Radenkovic in his opinion at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9684	As we have explained, there is a mistake in the Committee's report. The Committee reviewing the amendment accepted the amendment and the proposal did not accept the amendment. That's what the proposing representative, Mr. Arsic, said very clearly. The amendment thus did not become an integral part of the bill and will therefore be declared by the National Assembly on the amendment. I think that's quite clear now. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Hajdarevic. Here you go. I just need to delete this list so I can report you. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9685	Mr. President, obviously we don't understand each other. We are not talking about the opinion of the committee responsible, we are talking about the position of the promoter. Yesterday, 138 lawmakers held a meeting and discussed amendments to the proposal for a law on public procurement. When? Apparently during the time of asking questions to the government. How many MPs voted against this amendment then? When I tell the MP, I mean the promoter. Why are we not in the opinion of the promoter the reasons why this amendment has been rejected? This is what you are bound by Article 164. Rules of Procedure item 1. We are not talking about the opinion of the Committee, we are talking about the opinion of the legislator. There's an opinion here, and there's no amendment, absolutely no one. Give us a break and give us an opinion. Hold that meeting. I believe you can hold a meeting very quickly, five or ten minutes and write down what opinion it is and deliver it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9686	You're absolutely right about your opinion and I agree with you here. I think, given Article 164. Rules of Procedure, the proposing representative has the capacity to represent the motionor and Mr Arsic will send us an opinion on this amendment within the next ten minutes. I ask Mr Arsic and Mrs Vesna Kovac to deliver an opinion to all MPs, or correction, because it is indeed a technical error and that other MPs have no doubt that this is the case. I therefore ask for an opinion on the amendment to Article 51, with the correction submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Since it doesn't take you to set a break, you'll get an opinion within the next ten minutes and we can move on. At the same time, on the basis of Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 18.00 hours due to the need to propose acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible and until the debate on the agenda is concluded. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9687	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 27, 103 and 107 of this Rules of Procedure. As the Vice President of the Assembly failed to give me an answer when I advertised the Rules of Procedure, you repeated the same thing, when you did not answer me if the Rules of Procedure was hurt by not getting an answer? It's just that you've repeated your predecessor's mistake at the chair. It is very important to respect the dignity of this Parliament and the dignity of these MPs who speak about violations of the Rules of Procedure, unless the presidency already respects the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It is very important that this Parliament finally hears when and where this session of promoters, members of all the legislators of this law on public procurement, and when they have actually made a decision on which amendments will be adopted and which ones will not? It is very important that, by respecting everything the Rules of Procedure obliges you to, among other things, and the notices you are obliged to give to the MPs, you ask the Proposer to declare when and where the meeting was held on the proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9688	I didn't respond to the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, since I wasn't there the moment one of the vice presidents led the session, so I couldn't tell if the Rules of Procedure had been hurt. Of course, the National Assembly will declare this in Vote Day, for it is the National Assembly that decides whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not, and not any of us individually. As for your second call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, warning you not to violate the Rules of Procedure by speaking in a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure on other matters, I did not say the reasons and you are right, I did not say the reasons why you were not given the answer. But now I've just given you an interpretation. I couldn't answer you for not being in the O.R. I certainly advocate that all those who chair the session, always after requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, give an interpretation, or an explanation by the Rules of Procedure, whether or not they consider the Rules of Procedure to be injured. That is certainly what the National Assembly is saying, all of us, that any of us think that he is hurt or not injured, none of us have the capacity to decide whether or not the Rules of Procedure is injured. That is why the National Assembly is declared by the majority of the votes of the local MPs present. Did you want to follow the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stable? By amendment? Yeah. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9689	Dear citizens, I will address whoever I may not be punished, we are discussing an amendment that we do not have the opinion of the motionary. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Then, we have a piece of paper that says that an authorised promoter, an authorised proposing representative, has accepted Mr Radenkovic's amendment. Our lips tell us it's a mistake. Are we working on a story here or on papers? Is the state run by cell phone or papers? So, respected citizens, there are many ways around this amendment here. We don't even know where they met, and when the officials met, 138 of them, we don't have their opinion on the amendment, and we have all other amendments. The authorised promoter accepted on paper, the authorised representatives accepted the amendment, and he said a little while before – what is the problem about this amendment, when Article 51, now to defend Mr Radenkovic's amendment when he won't, he said – all this is regulated, because the orderr is obliged to bring a procurement plan and what is so much debated about this? Radenkovic's amendment refers to the fact that the procurement plan must be published on the public procurement portal. Article 51 says only the contracting authority has to adopt a public procurement plan by 31 January and deliver it to the Public Procurement Authority in electronic form. So that's where he's trying to escape from the essence of public procurement in this country, municipalities, cities being known to everyone, both potential suppliers and citizens. That's what this is about. Obviously, one of these 138 promoters doesn't want it to be known, and someone wants it to be known. That's the essence of this whole story, and that's why we talk so much about this amendment. So, tell us, gentlemen, where did you meet, why don't you have an opinion on this amendment in the opinion you delivered to us? How is it possible that professional services of the Assembly are so wrong and that they say that the mandated representative has accepted it, and we are verbally told that he did not. Now he'll probably have some paper, so he says - I don't agree with this amendment. Don't replace the thesis. Article 51 says nothing about the publication of a public procurement plan on the public procurement portal, but only talks about the obligation of the contracting authority to make a plan by the end of the January. The essence is not in the amendment whether a plan should be made or not, but whether the plan should be published on the public procurement portal. So you got involved. We're helping you get involved, to make this law better, because it's in everyone's best interest to be better, but somehow you don't show great enthusiasm for this law to be better, at least when it comes to this important thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9690	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9691	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment, which Mr Radenkovic submitted, was an opportunity to politicise the whole thing and turn away from the essence. Does anyone think that we should unanimity accept the entire text of the law, if we are as legislators of 138 MPs? You forget the fact that the MP has his subjectivity, legitimacy and that he is independent and that he can decide whether or not he will submit the amendment, whether he will vote yes or no. On the other hand, the Proposer of 138, in technical or other respects, cannot represent each individual. The Rules of Procedure say that there is an authorised representative. He has the legitimacy to say whether it is accepted or not, and that is Mr. Arsic. Of course, yes, and how I support Mr Radenkovic's amendment, but one is the essence of this proposal, and the other is procedurally how it is done here and how it is accepted here or not accepted on behalf of the promoter. Of course, it's nice that the DS supports us in this, and we appreciate it very much, and we respect it, as well as some other parties. Here is the essence of practically obstructing the work of the Assembly and trying to show that there is a discrepancy within the ruling coalition. After all, I respect the Rules of Procedure and if a proposing representative, whether it's my amendment or someone else, says it's not accepted, is not accepted. In voting day, I will vote yes or no, and in accordance with what is my right. So there's no scrawny about it. There's a gibberish here to obstruct and the whole thing is politicized. It's impossible that on behalf of the promoter they speak all 138 and that each individual, of 138, says whether or not they accept. That is why Arsic has the legitimacy, as an authorised representative of the promoter. We haven't agreed to call him off yet. It is he who represents the law, and if Radenkovic is right, I think he is, but it is a matter of a subsequent agreement within the ruling coalition when we vote whether we vote yes or no. If you'd like to join in voting for the timing, that's even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9692	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9693	Mr. President, Article 27 and Article 164 again. You know what, we've been asking a simple question here for half an hour... Mr. Hajdarevich, I cannot allow you. That's what you've called yourself on multiple occasions. I'm not on Article 27. (President: Yes, you called. You said compared to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. I appreciate the essence of what you've said, not the members you're referring to as a formal reason. You can say... ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. (President: you said just now. You've already indicated that you've repeated it several times. I'll let you carry on, but if you repeat any of what I heard from your debate, I'll take your word for it. You know what, Mr. President, there's no need for threats. Mr. Mihajlovic had just provided some information. You, as president of the assembly, had to warn him or return him to the agenda. We asked both you and Mr. Mihajlovic and 138 MPs – when you held a meeting yesterday, where did you determine the opinion of the amendment promoters, where did you refuse or accept the amendment of Dejan Radenkovic? If that's not in this opinion here, if you don't give us a simple answer – we held a meeting then, in that room, in so many hours, then we believe this is a fake. Not only for this amendment, but we believe this whole opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9694	Mr. Hajdarevic, the meeting doesn't have to be formally held. The proposing representative can talk to all representatives, all MPs and get an opinion from them. He doesn't have to find them in one room and keep them as school students and talk to them that way. It may approach any of the MPs who have proposed, and if any of the MPs, of those 138, raise doubts that the meeting has not been held and have not been properly questioned, and have agreed with their signatures, I would agree with you. You're not one of those 138 after all. You have no right to express your suspicions that I am not informed, if by my signature I claim that I am and have given my opinion. So, I think it's absolutely pointless for us to argue about it. It's all abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because you've already received answers to these questions. The opinion will soon be shared with MPs, in which a proposing representative on behalf of the promoter says he does not accept this amendment. We will declare this amendment in the voting day and everyone who thinks in one way or another will have the opportunity to plead and vote yes or no. I think it's a very simple thing. As far as the meeting is concerned, I think I've given an explanation. The word is by MP Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9695	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Rules of Procedure, Article 103, Article 6 and Article 27. So, just before I advertised the Rules of Procedure, you answered me by not actually giving me an answer to whether the Rules of Procedure was injured. It's simply not possible under the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, you did not allow me to make a statement as to whether Parliament's voting day is asking whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you've literally denied me one right that I have within the meaning of Rule 103 of Rule 6 of this Rules of Procedure. We've been discussing parallel things here for an hour. We don't understand each other at all. We're looking for some specific things that are foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. We also ask that it be determined whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured by the chairman or the President of Parliament, and we ask that these legislators be made known whether or not the meeting of those 138 proposing members has been held, if so, where and when, since there is no opinion on one amendment. I suggest you set a break, get together somehow and then agree on that amendment. So, we can now doubt whether there has been any meeting at all, any negotiations, whether there has been a consensus opinion at all, because if you say 138 MPs sign one bill, I guess they are also deciding whether to adopt or not to adopt some amendments that have been proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9696	I don't think he's a injured member of the Rules of Procedure that you listed. Also, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to ask to be allowed to say whether you are satisfied or not. I haven't seen you in the system, and that's why I didn't give you my word to ask you to make your statement whether you're happy with the answer and whether you're asking the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day. I don't think that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I think I gave a precise opinion last time, and I told you last time that I didn't think that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done, and I couldn't say about the previous one, because it would really be pointless to make a statement about something when I wasn't in the O.R., I wasn't there. That's my answer for you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare that in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9697	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9698	The National Assembly will declare that in the day of the vote. As far as this second part is concerned, in order to be absolutely clear, there is no business obligation for MPs to be gathered somewhere to give an opinion. Mr. Arsic can ask me if I agree and give him my opinion as a representative of the proposal whether I agree or disagree. If I feel that Mr Arsic has in any way misused the trust I have given him as a proposing representative, I have the right to seek the resolution of the proposing representatives and to file a complaint. At this point I have complete confidence in Mr Arsic and he has the right to represent me and everyone else until otherwise decided. I think we've defined that very clearly. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9699	Mr. President, you told us that yesterday's meeting of the promoter was not held, that Mr. Arsic, as an authorised contact, contacted all 137 other MPs. Yeah. [[President: Is that a replica?]] If he was doing it on the phone, he should have, we have 66 amendments here, about 9,000 phone calls. I don't think it was physically possible to do that. What we are asking is that we are clearly told how the proposal's opinion is determined and, most importantly, are all the amendments submitted by the MPs in this opinion? Perhaps in the course of the debate, we will come to the same situation as we now have with Mr. Dejan Radenkovic's amendment. You simply have to understand that we now have the right to doubt, because we have come into a situation where the obvious mistake you made as a ruling coalition is transferred to the Technical Service of the Assembly, as if it had done something wrong, which is absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9700	The word has Mr. Ostojić after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9701	Yeah, according to the amendment. So I don't have to explain anything, I can only tell the citizens there's a hint of a crime here. It's a crime to falsify someone's opinion. In the opinion delivered to us, it says that the proposings, 138 of them, were considering amendments and their opinion was delivered to us on 66 amendments, but it is not on Radenkovic. We're asking why you missed it and you don't say anything. You're talking - this is politicization. No, it's not politicizing. You see, when the government discusses amendments to some law that she has proposed, it works at a formal session. There are some rules in democracy. The essence of democracy is procedure. The government does not give an opinion on our amendments by having two ministers on it while having lunch at a coffee shop in Belgrade. You're telling us that there was no session, that there were consultations at the pubs, and that's how you found out? I'm sorry, if anyone faked someone's opinion, he's going to jail. Do you know it's a crime? You should know that. We ask you why you did not give an opinion on this amendment, and you say -- now it will arrive. 66 opinions have arrived on the 66 amendments, and there are not on this and two. How is it formalized to give an opinion of the promoter when there are 138? There's less in the government, 20 and something. They can determine their opinion on cafes, but they do it in a session where it's simply recorded, there's a record, etc. We suspect this paper. We doubt it because it's hard to gather 138, and you say it wasn't that. Gentlemen who signed this, when you see if someone forged your will or not. But it can't be done, Mr. President, they call you on the phone, so they say, what do you think of this, and who, there are 67 of them in all. Clearly, it is here whether public procurement plans will be an important issue on the portal, but you have a different view of it. Someone would like it not to be known to the public, someone would want to be and obviously that when it comes to giving an opinion, you violated not only the Rules of Procedure but also some other laws and I would not be in your skin. What you're saying is that it says he's accepted the amendment, but basically it's the mistake of whoever typed the text, and now he's going to deliver later, it's not all the answers we're looking for. So, will someone please tell us what you skipped the Radenkovic amendment in your opinion, and you have an opinion on the other amendments and where did you form that opinion?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9702	The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic, Milorad Mijatovic and Slavica Savic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9703	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the SDPS Parliament Club have submitted an amendment to Article 54 concerning the participation of members of the representative union in certain organisations and institutions, in the work of the procurement committee. We consider it a party that is a natural strategic partner of the union that, together with our partners in parliament, but also with representatives of other parties, we should promote a new role of unions in the modern world, modern business, as well as in the public sector. I was already talking about this in principle debate, that this is one of the moves that management of these organisations, corporate management has shown that it wants to apply to implement European values and modern values in the management process and in the modern management model. What does he mean? It implies that representatives of employees, whether they are trade unions or employee councils, as they have the right to create development strategies for companies and organisations, have the right to complete management of the process and the process of planning activities, organisation, management, but also, what is very important, the process of control. The SDPS therefore insists that representatives of representative unions be involved in all these aspects and activities of organisations and businesses in the public sector. Of course, we haven't even asked for a moment whether these people should be professional and qualified to do this job, that's understood. We believe that this would raise the capacity of work and the functioning of public procurement commissions. We believe that public procurement and the public procurement process in this case would be more transparent, better and, of course, better quality, in order to reduce the possibility of corrupt operations and how. I also expect the representatives of the opposition parties, especially those of the Social Democratic Provincial, to support this amendment and to support such solutions. Because if we are constantly talking about the need for a social pact, for a social partnership, for a social and social consensus, I think we should agree on this issue as well. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always respect and always promote union positions as its natural partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9704	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9705	I would accept this amendment, it makes sense, given that in the privatisation tenders, there was always a member of the union involved. So one of the members of the commission was always a representative of the company union that was being sold. But there's one problem. In these public procurements you have public enterprises that will make public procurements, which have no union at all. Therefore, it is not an obligation for employees to be members of the union, nor is it an obligation for the public company to have, because there are public enterprises, for example, for urbanism, etc., which will make public procurement, which have two employees and have no members of the union at all. That's the dilemma I had when I read these amendments yesterday when we had that break. So, the amendment is fully directed, but I'm afraid there are companies that don't have a union and what are we going to do, since this is binding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9706	Mr. Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9707	I'll just take a minute. I thank Mr. Risticevic for his understanding and for one correct discussion. The aim of our amendment is to elect a member of the Public Procurement Commission from the ranks of the representative union or in the agreement of representative trade unions that there is more, as far as possible, and where there is no trade union organisation, trade union organisation, of course, there will be no possibility of a member of the Commission being represented and of a union or council of employees, if it exists in the company. So our intention was that where unions exist, a mandatory competent, professional and qualified employee representative participates in the process of controlling the spending of funds of that public enterprise or organisation. We believe that in this way we could raise maximum competence, capacity and, most importantly, reduce the possibility of corrupt actions in the context of budget spending and budget money. Because we would have two sides, we would have a management representative, we would have a union representative, so that in one quality way we could reduce the possibility of corruption and the possibility of any agreement within the Public Procurement Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9708	Thank you. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9709	There is only one suggestion here to make technical corrections to this amendment. I think there has been a grammatical error in point 10 - the Commission cannot name persons who may be in conflict of interest in this subject of public procurement, to turn this "who" into "who." I think it's a grammatical error when typing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9710	Thank you for that. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted together to the 54th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9711	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. We have proposed that at least one lawyer must enter the Commission's membership as a mandatory member, especially when it comes to high-value public procurement, because we believe that this is necessary in order for these commissions to function legally at all, especially because legal acts are also required when they work. We believe that this would eliminate the consequences that can arise as a product of unprofessional and illegal public procurement. Public procurement companies have a large number of employees, and many of them also work in public procurement administrations. They also went through training and passed all the necessary tests in order to be able to deal with public procurement. We believe that lawyers should be part of public procurement commissions without any cost, because that can only be obtained at the quality of commissions' work, and we do not see why they are left out of these commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9712	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 57 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 61 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 75th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9713	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would remind you that this assembly has decided to amend and supplement the Criminal Code and that the Criminal Code has established a new criminal offence, which is a crime of abuse in public procurement proceedings. So there's a new crime. However, it is obvious that the legislator did not take into account the existence of this new criminal act and therefore did not put it into the proposal of this Article 75. I would read to you, in order to make it much clearer, what it is really about when we suggest that this crime be identified as one of the evidence that is necessary and necessary for the bidder to make a statement about them. This is what it says - the bidder in the procurement process must prove that he and his legal representative are not convicted of any of the crimes as a member of an organized criminal group, that he is not convicted of criminal acts against the economy, the crime against the environment, the crime of taking and giving bribes, the crime of fraud. There's only a lack of criminal abuse in public procurement. So it's very important to bring it in. An explanation of why these changes we have asked for are not adopted as follows – the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution also includes the criminal offence of abuse, i.e. in the procedure of public procurement of criminal acts against the economy. So, it is assumed that the client will be able to assess for himself whether any crime can be classified as criminal acts of economic character. Why, then, did you specifically point out that there is a need here to prove that no one is convicted of both fraud and bribery, etc.? If it is already such a serious law as this law, which is on today's agenda, in which case it would be good to introduce a criminal offence specifically related to any type of abuse, and against which you are fighting, as an integral part of Article 75 of Article 2 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9714	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the sincere desire of the legislator to fix the Law on Public Procurement, but the law-making process itself implies that he must be in line with basic legislation if the same measures are being touched. When it comes to crimes against the economy, it means that it is even in the title of the Criminal Code, and then it lists which acts are against the economy and legal traffic. In Article 234a of that same title, crimes against the economy are also criminal acts of abuse in public procurement proceedings. So even if we accept it, we would limit only one part of the criminal law, including other crimes related to the economy, and in the criminal code itself, it is regulated that criminal acts in the public procurement process fall under criminal acts against the economy. That's what the law says, and that's one reason why this amendment isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9716	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 75 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 77 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 78 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 78th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9717	We propose this amendment, given that an APR which is already running is too much burden, and is obliged to keep one type of records, it is still on the burden, which we think is completely unrealistic and will not be enforceable, that through the register of bidders running the APR, it is determined that it is obliged to manage taxes and other data which it does not receive under official duty. What does that mean specifically? That the taxpayer has reconciled the tax, the remaining contributions and other public taxes in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that this is impossible for the APR to lead. In order to allow this law to be implemented, we have proposed that this amendment be deleted and that for all taxes and other taxes to the State, the bidder himself will be the one from the competent tax authority to obtain that information and to obtain proof that he has settled all obligations. Because this certainty that we want to achieve for this member to be the one that will keep a complete record simply isn't possible, because there is no single database in the tax administration of debtors, tax debts, settlement obligations and all the other conditions necessary for this. That kind of database doesn't even have a tax administration. Then what do we expect the APR to build that database? It is completely unrealistic and this member, if he remains, will be as defined in the basic text of the law as inconclusive. In this way we will first allow the offerer to obtain his information on whether he has reconciled the tax and other contributions. The second thing, we're going to make it possible for the APR to do that job that was established by the APR Act, and that's how we're going to make this process better. We believe that a long time will pass until a single base of taxpayers, tax debts and other contributions is established in Serbia and that the base is available to the APR. This may be one solution that's good, but at this point it's inconclusive, and we need to make a solution that's enforceable, and we're doing it with our amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9718	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9719	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. They have now given us the additional opinions of the motion for an amendment to Article 51 submitted by Dejan Radenkovic. However, I am now looking at the government's opinion and, in fact, the LSV parliamentary group has submitted four amendments. In the opinion of the Government, we have an answer, or an opinion on only one amendment to Article 3 that is not accepted. Please, although Mr Radenkovic is your MP, and we are not, if you can force the motionor to give an opinion on our amendments or if he does not have opinions, let the president say why he is not. I've just explained one of the amendments on which there is no opinion, no proposal, or the president of the committee has not spoken of it, and now I don't know what the fate of these amendments is, and I'd like to know. Thank you. I refer to Article 164.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9720	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Proposer may, of course, be ordinarily declared at the meeting of the National Assembly itself, and it is not binding for the National Assembly to declare either the amendment, or the draft law in particular or in general. So, I agree with you, I'd rather have an opinion on every amendment, that's mine, to say, personal observation and something that I'd like for reasons I think would make it more clear to everyone whether something was accepted or not and what were the reasons to accept something or not. However, the Rules of Procedure are such that they do not oblige either the Proposer, whether it is a parliamentary group or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to give an opinion on the very text of the amendment and whether it accepts it or not. I certainly did not think that Mr Radenkovic was a member of the ruling coalition, but because he became a very big doubt about what he really was, whether it was a technical mistake or not, and whether the president accepted it or not, since both opinions existed, because of that. In your case, there is no opinion, which is business, I agree with you, business permitting, which is, in that case, more correct than having two opinions, because then you would ask a question, which is true. But, formally, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, but certainly I ask, if there is a possibility that the president of the motion will also be made aware of your amendments, to do so anyway, I do not see anything problematic. The formal Rules of Procedure have not been broken. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 79 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of notified funds. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS MPs in the debate in principle pointed out, among other things, that this law should be contained, first of all, in crime, in the crime rate, as well as in many speculative actions. In addition to my discussion, the degree of crime in Serbia is growing year by year, the degree of corruption is growing year by year, it is talking and speaking, Mr. Deger, EU representative in Serbia. Our amendments, which we submitted, the DSS parliamentary group submitted 27 amendments, wanted to prevent this way and to help, above all, the legislator, the legislator to curb crime, speculative actions. However, I am truly sorry that he did not recognise it in our amendments and no amendment has been accepted. When it comes to the amendment to Article 84, we have inserted two attitudes to help, first of all, the Commission for the Protection of Rights, to be one control package that will help select a strategic partner, the job manager. In an explanation that we received from the promoter, it is said that and how much it would complicate the further part of the work, the further part of the work. I don't think anything can complicate a single member of this bill, if that suggestion is well-intentioned and if that suggestion has one corrective factor, which is the control mechanism, to help, above all, our economic operators, who in the previous period couldn't reach certain jobs, although they had certain, minors of the same reference, as foreign strategic partners. We have examples on Corridor 10, 2010, in 2011, when our economic operators competed, all four out of 15, as many public tenders were called, they got jobs. So our intention above all was to help, as I said to the legislator, eradicate certain corruption and create no doubt in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9722	Thank you. Mr. Michael's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9723	This amendment is somewhat related to our amendment not to exempt from the proposal for this law loans, i.e. public procurement on loans from foreign financial organisations, banks and others, which set difficult qualifications for getting jobs. Mr. Pejcic mentioned Corridor 10. We were talking here about the loan that was obtained for the purchase of the bus, which the city of Belgrade took to obtain the bus. It's just that this all has a purpose in protecting domestic economy. What we were talking about yesterday, that they shouldn't be exempt from the law of procurement that will be made with funds from foreign financial institutions, these make up one whole. With this amendment, which could allow Serbian firms to participate in all tenders and not set up some criteria that will eliminate Serbian firms and open up space for EU companies, which have their subsidies, a significantly larger market, are significantly more financially capable and that our companies will wipe out. We are right when we say that it is not necessary to free from public procurement of loans, which the state of Serbia is getting from the IBRD and various other banks, says today's statement by Nemanja Nenadic, who is from the organisation "Transparency of Serbia", which says that one large part of the procurement is completely excluded from this law. These are all purchases financed from foreign loans. Large infrastructure works are not subject to this law and there is also something that needs to be changed. He who is in charge of dealing with the fight against corruption in Serbia, Transparency International, or "Transparency of Serbia", has remarked that the loans obtained for infrastructure works, for large purchases, are exempt from the application of the law. Please be advised, there is still time to consider this amendment and the amendments that we submitted to a member yesterday, which excludes precisely these procurements, which Nemanja Nenadic, from this law, to consider, to adopt this and to subscribe these purchases under this law, as "Transparency of Serbia" says, otherwise we will be in a situation to change again in six months, one year, this law, and until many businesses, which will be given to foreign companies, will be damaged by Serbian companies. So there's still a chance to vote, to respond and to adopt some amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9724	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Antic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 85 be added after article 85. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9725	I thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Members and fellow Members, Article 86. The draft law regulates the advantage for domestic bidders and goods, so paragraphs 1 and 2 says - in case of application of the criteria, the most economically favourable offer, the public service provider is obliged to accept the offer of a domestic bidder in case a foreign and domestic bidder occurs, if the difference in the pooling of weights between a foreign and a domestic bidder is not greater, the proposal says than 10. For that point of view. The DSS suggests it's number 20. Also for item 2, when it comes to offering domestic goods, between domestic and foreign bidders, the client is obliged to accept the domestic bidder, if, in the proposal, you made the difference in weighting 10, and we suggest that the difference in weighting is 20. In Article 3, in the case of applying the most economically favourable price criteria, the contracting authority is again obliged to accept the domestic bidder, you have put in the proposal in case the domestic bidder is not more expensive than 15%, we suggest that it stands out that it is not more expensive than 20%. You have not accepted this amendment, and in your explanation, what cannot be accepted for us from the DSS is that in some way these are commitments, that even these differences should be lower than the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We've been telling you here for days, and yesterday almost all day, when it comes to our amendments, that we want to do well to correct these amendments to the bill, to protect our domestic economy, our domestic bidders. I can't have our domestic bidders, and when it comes to the servants, and when it comes to the performance of the works, when it comes to the offer of good, to be a competitor with foreign companies. If the state doesn't do one, call it protectionism for domestic companies, I don't know how they'll handle it when it comes to these major state-owned infrastructure projects, from republican, over provinceal, to local level, if we don't give them a job in that sector, if we don't give them that little difference that they can find with their offers, believe me, I don't know if we're going to have any business in five or six years. Please, yesterday was a question, that's what we wanted to ask, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As a result, the DSS lost power in 2008, received DS, blindly adhered to the agreement. You continue to accept it, and I assume that part by piece you apply it. Remember, this agreement will destroy the Serbian economy. We won't have anything to show up with anywhere in any tender, even small purchases in a few years, if this is how we take care of the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9726	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is said that only performers of public works are the businesses of Serbia. What about the rest of the economy? What about the agricultural industry? What about her? Where'd she go? Don't say that. You are given positive discrimination in favour of the domestic economy, but that does not mean that those who run the domestic economy should behave non-chalantly. In the end, it is paid from the pockets of taxpayers who are also domestic citizens. They're not others. They didn't fall off Mars, they live here. What about the other industry? What about agriculture? What about processing, what about other branches that don't participate in public procurement? I counted some companies yesterday. Some of these companies are at the heart of the DSS and the government of Vojislav Kostunica. When you drill into the chest and encourage domestic economy, do not encourage it only through a discussion in the Serbian Parliament, but also through what you did in the past while you were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9728	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9729	Perhaps you've realized that here, when we talk about helping the domestic economy, we focus primarily on building operations, simply because construction is an industry that drives almost everything else, including many manufacturing activities, especially agriculture. Agriculture certainly can't, the agriculture on which the future processing industry should be based, and all of this depends on each other. It's all caused by the result. We cannot declare one development branch in Serbia that it is not tied. Of course our agricultural production should be competitive. It is here and will then appear many producers and agricultural products, through the offer of public procurement of goods of domestic origin. We don't rule out all other branches of the economy here, including agriculture. Don't think. It may have seemed to you that we were stressing special services, i.e. carrying out works in construction, simply because it is the most visible, most expensive and often mentioned whether there is corruption or no corruption, whether it has the advantage of getting some jobs and whether our builders are able to meet the very complex conditions in these tenders. We don't rule out any branch of economy when we talk about public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9730	The People's MP, Dejan Michael, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9731	It's a line to the gentleman after he mentioned it to the client. Mr. Arsic, I expect you to give us an answer, not to leave us behind to answer our question. In the light of your amendment, it says that you do not accept this because our amendment is contrary to the SAA. You say for our fight for the Serbian economy it's a chest drill. No one here is drilling into their chests, but we're trying to find the best solution. I'm sorry that you haven't accepted any of our amendments, and you're seeing everything as a bust in the chest, and the only argument you're offering is how you worked in the previous government, and you don't say why these amendments aren't good. We've been doing good. During our government, Serbia's economy has progressed, and Serbia has been living far better than it is now living. We're not accusing you of living badly because of your government. You will have opportunities in the coming months and years to show how to live. You've inherited a catastrophic condition, but I expect to conduct the debate here under the law and on your arguments and on our amendments. If we want to discuss how we lived, we can discuss it and it will be one debate that will bring us back very far. We do not flee from what we have done. We're proud of what we did. We are proud, Mr. Arsic, and we are not ashamed of it, and we stand here with dignity behind every decision made by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and this Assembly at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's what we're proud of. Whenever you mention it, we say, yes, we did, and we stand behind it. We will always say that and we will drill into the chest for every decision we made back then, because all decisions were in the interest of citizens it was known that there was a state in Serbia and there was order. We expect you to bring this Serbia into order, as the order existed back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9732	Mr. Arsic, please. Did you answer by line or as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9733	As an authorised representative of the motionor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9735	If you are already seeking an answer, you as a lawyer know that international agreements and contracts are older and more important, they have more legal facts than domestic legislation. The SAA has ratified the Serbian Parliament here. Everyone in principle, even if we pass that law, can be the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court, which you as a lawyer know well, because it will refer to this agreement that this Assembly has ratified. Now, if you think he's good or bad, it's your right, I won't argue with you, but he's in effect right now. Also, we don't run away from responsibility for everything we've done and for everything we haven't done, but we could. And it also carries special weight.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9736	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Bojana Bozanic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9737	Thank you, Your Honor. The colleagues and fellow MPs, the DSS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to delete Article 86 of the 11th position, which says that public procurement procedures involving bidders from the SPS and Serbia signatories are benefiting domestic producers under the agreement. As we all know, we have seen that the SAA is unfavourable for Serbia, for the Serbian economy, and the title above this article says: the advantage for domestic bidders and good, and I disagree with each other. That's why we thought this attitude should be erased. The agreement envisions that Serbia, or Serbia's businessmen, reduce privileges, even abolishing them in relation to EU member states. The government is somewhere at the end of November or early December, I don't know exactly which day, adopted new tariffs and imports of agricultural products, where it says most agricultural products will be imported from the beginning of 2014 without customs duties. So we're talking about agricultural production and other production. To know that the announced suspension of customs duties will put out about 40% of small food producers in Serbia, and it is planned, and this is what the government has imagined, in a year, from 2013 until the beginning of 2014, that domestic production is so advanced that it becomes competitive, that we export raw materials, we import finished products. That won't be possible in a year. The rapid liberalisation of the market for Serbian food producers is not good at all. It all needs to be done gradually. Our mouths are full of helping domestic economies, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc., but only declaratively. Every law and provision we make speaks exactly the opposite. I see the Ministry of Agriculture has planned to make sure that it announces an extension of this deadline for the elimination of these customs duties for most agricultural products. However, it seems to me that none of this has happened, without talking about that part of the SAA, where we will be able to sell to foreigners in the same way as the people living in Serbia in some future period. I really think that people will recognize our good will, the way the DSS proposes these amendments, and all in order to improve both this law and all other legal proposals, and probably the people will judge what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9738	Thank you. Members of the 92nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9739	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 92 is talking about the possibility of the client refusing an offer because of an unusually low price. We in the LDP see here one inaccuracy that is reflected in the position of the 2nd proposed member. According to Article 2(2), an unusually low price within the meaning of this law is offered a price which is significantly different from the market price. We think I'm a significant retreat, because it's too general a term. Our amendment has tried to define what a significant deviation means, i.e. to make this member of the law clearer, because we can get into a situation when implementing the law, so that this member allows the contracting authorities to reject those offers of bidders that are not in line with the policy of the client. We said that Article 92 complements Article 2 with words – which is more than 20% lower than the average of all prices offered in all submitted offers in a specific public procurement procedure. We also said to add a new attitude 3 that is closer to defining what the average price means. It reads – an unusually low price per position is a price that is more than 20% lower than the average offered price for a competitive position, offered by all bidders. The calculation of the averages referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall not include the price for which the assessment is carried out. We tried to define that average price, which by 20% should be higher, that is, when the average price counts, that it does not take that offer to verify why the abnormally low price is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9740	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 92nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9741	Thank you, Your Honor. We have suggested that Article 92 define the correct deadline and the clarification of unusually low prices, not to be an appropriate deadline. The proposer's explanation states that this should be the shortest possible deadline, and that is why they have not defined it. You know, time is a very relative category, so we thought it should stand out that the deadline can't be longer than 20 days. We think it's something that the promoter could accept. In any case, all the DSS amendments are submitted to the objective, I repeat again, as all my colleagues have so far, of improving public procurement procedures, in order to obtain a better, better quality public procurement law, which all citizens will be able to make quality and good use of in a very simple way. Since the promoter has not accepted any of our amendments, and probably some of these amendments could significantly improve the law itself, not essentially amend it. Anyway, I don't know why it happened. Our wish is to specify all the solutions that are in the law, to clearly define all the provisions, and thus with this appropriate deadline which should not stand, but rather precisely and clearly defined – not for more than 20 days. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports all activities in introducing order in public procurement procedures, to fight corruption, which we really support. I hope you understand that we also want to contribute to this law and we want to show you that we want to participate very actively in the work of Parliament and the adoption of this law. In this regard, I don't know why you didn't accept all our amendments, including the one that's very simple? I am going back to yesterday's Article 3 and our amendment on an unusually low price, where you had no explanation, except to tell me that we were wrong, that we now have two points 29 in Article 3 and nowhere has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives said that the amendment is not technically incorrect. You could have said you didn't want to change anything, not some trivial explanation to define why you didn't accept the amendment. I seriously ask you to take another good look at the DSS amendments and adopt some of them, because it is our desire that all the laws we make be the best possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9742	National MP Bozidar Djelic submitted the amendment to Article 97. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 103rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9743	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of our amendment is to protect the bidder from the orderer, i.e. from possible abuses of the orderer, by binding the orderer to inform the bidder within eight days to give up or change his views on the previously made bid. In doing so, a 30-day period is foreseen for the removal of any type of damage. The answer of the proposed law is that this is unnecessary red tape. I would not agree with that, since although there is already some solution in the law, in terms of compensation to the bidder for possible abuses or failures of the client, there remains a large space for the bidder to remain in some kind of damage. For today, it is very difficult to exercise any right to the authorities, or to the courts. Therefore, if the obligation of the contracting authority, in terms of giving answers and reporting to the tenderer, and in terms of its obligation to compensate for damages, the matter will be much simpler for any further proceedings. In fact, it would be a preliminary statement by the orderer to accept the damage, to make up for it, or simply to believe that there was no damage to his guilt. This would be one aid to the court itself and the court procedure and would significantly speed up the procedure for the bidder to exercise his right. You don't need to avoid the possibility of some things getting solved this way, rationally. What's more, they should be encouraged, even if that incentive came from the opposition's amendment. Therefore, it would not be a bad idea to reconsider whether you want the whole procurement procedure to be rationalised or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9744	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic to Article 113. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Janko Radaković and Jovan Joksimovic submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. The representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9745	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I was saying, the DSS parliamentary group has submitted 27 amendments, and that is one third of the total amendments that have been made to this law. There have been good amendments, not only by our parliamentary groups, but also by other parliamentary groups. However, this amendment, as well as the other amendments submitted by our party, has not been accepted. For what reason? We don't know. The explanation is the same as for article 84, which is that it will create confusion. We wanted to create this amendment with a single control package, and it was about the competencies of the Republic Commission. Thus, they only asked that point 6 (a) be added in Article 139 after point 5), which says – deciding on the applicant's proposal – to control the eligibility of the criteria for the award of the contract. My colleague, Dejan Mihajlov, and I talked about how there were many irregularities in the previous period, and about our construction operation on Corridor 10, related to Icarbus in Belgrade and many other irregularities. In this way, we wanted to encourage the legislator to accept this amendment in order to make this law more transparent, clearer and to bring it closer to all those who are interested in this law and that Serbian citizens have insight into how their funds are being spent. That was the goal and intensity of our amendment, the authorized promoter did not accept it. We are sorry, not only did this amendment not accept, but it did not accept many of the other amendments that we have offered. So the concept of our amendment and this law doesn't seem to be the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9746	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic submitted to Article 139 of the amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9747	These members shall be specified, Article 139, of the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission. Among other things, the Republic Commission is in charge of a misdemeanor procedure. We also propose this amendment to say that the Republic Commission is not in charge, but is initiating a misdemeanor procedure. We believe it is too much authority to be given to the Republic Commission to conduct a first-degree infringement procedure. Not even the state auditor, which is a constitutional category, has the possibility, nor the authority, to conduct a first-degree infringement procedure, but he is the one who is initiating proceedings under the legal system, which was established in Serbia. The proceedings shall be conducted within the framework of the courts for offences. The arguments why this isn't good are double. First, what is sitting within the Republic Commission, not only lawyers, but also those who have no knowledge in the area of law, and in particular do not have knowledge in the area of law enforcement and criminal law and the possibility of conducting a misdemeanour procedure. That's one thing. The second thing, there will be a conflict of interest here, because within the Republic Commission, which is one organ, two counter-actions will be conducted, or a decision will be taken to protect the rights of the bidders, and then the second major republican commission will decide on a first-degree infringement procedure. We believe that a much better solution is to leave it to the Republic Commission to initiate the proceedings, and that the misdemeanor courts are the ones to conduct the proceedings. The reason is that these proceedings conducted by the infringement courts are slow, tromic, that they are not effective enough to protect certain rights. It is not a problem that we have to look for a solution that is not in line with our legal system and thus create one system that will further introduce confusion into our legal system, but it is up to us to improve the functioning of the criminal courts, that there may be more of them, that it may be made especially greater in the context of a criminal court or a special judge that will deal with only this procedure. That's what our proposal is. Otherwise, if we allowed the Republic Commission to conduct a misdemeanor procedure, that would be, as it would say, an incident, an exception to our legal and constitutional order. This is not an anti-constitutional category that the Republic Commission has the right to conduct an infringement procedure in the first degree, but it is something that pops out of our legal system and which would be an incident that will not contribute more effectively to work and that, in our opinion, will enable it to work and bring about a situation of conflict of interest, inadequate decisions, because members of the Republic Commission are not educated and are not subjugated to be able to conduct misdemeanors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9748	Mr. Arsic, the speaker has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'm going to go through parallel legislation. Who handles a misdemeanor when it comes to customs proceedings? One graduate lawyer and two customs officers. Now he's got it in the law. That the persons in the commission are not meeting the requirements, I'll just read what Article 141 defines if he could be a member of the Republic Commission. This is – for the President of the Republic Commission, a person who meets the conditions necessary for the election of a judge of the basic court, except in relation to the Judicial Academy and who has a working experience of five years in the field of public procurement. Paragraph 3 states - a member of the Republic Commission may be elected a person who meets the conditions for a choice for a judge of the basic court, except for the conditions relating to the Judicial Academy and who has a three-year working experience in the field of public procurement. It is also said in paragraph 5 – that at least four members of the Republic Commission are elected among those who meet the conditions laid down in Article 3. So that commission will have four lawyers of six who have to meet the conditions to be judges of the basic court. Why does it matter that this is in the law? In addition to having negative experience, when it comes to the launch and conduct of the infringement proceedings of the Public Procurement Act with our courts for violations, we have a situation, and I must say, for many of the judges for violations of public procurement proceedings is a procedure for which they do not have enough practice and experience. We've had situations, and if someone who meets certain conditions, who hasn't worked in that area, judges in some criminal procedure to give a liberating verdict precisely because there's not enough experience in this matter. We remain that the Republic Commission has the right to conduct a misdemeanour procedure for violating the provisions of this law, especially because the capacity of these people is such that they can be judges of the basic court.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9750	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9751	Mr Arsic, in the extension or middle of article 141 you read says that for a member of the Republic Commission, a person who has acquired a higher education from the scientific field, economic and technical and technological sciences in second-degree studies can be elected. So, members of the Republic Commission will be people who have no legal knowledge and who are there for professional reasons, which is completely justified. We don't dispute that, even more than we support it. That only speaks in favor of us, our fact, our argument, our amendment that the first-degree infringement procedure should be conducted by courts for violations. It is something that, at this point, is absolutely right for us to establish a single legal system in the Republic of Serbia and to focus on breaking courts that need to be strengthened, strengthened, improved so that they can carry out their actions. This is how we introduce confusion. As far as Customs Administration is concerned, customs administration is something completely different from what we have in this law. You can't compare part of the Ministry of Finance, because the Customs Administration is part of the Ministry of Finance, with the Republic Commission. It is a completely inadequate comparison both by jurisdiction and by responsibility, and by the powers vested in by the Customs Administration. Consider once again that through the amendment of the Law on Infringements, there is a particularly high form of infringements which would effectively address issues of public procurement proceedings. It is for us a solution that would be completely in line with the legal order. Then there would be no bounce, because if we make a precedent, an exception, in this case, it will happen that in the next laws, the body that is formed will want to run the first-degree infringement body. Simply, we propose a solution that would be fully in line with the legal order and that would allow for one certainty in the proceedings before the courts, for all participants in such proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9752	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9753	I'll remind you again that the Commission has six members and a president. Four have to be graduate lawyers and have to meet the conditions so they can also be judges of the basic court. Only three members belong to another group, which does not mean that these three members cannot be selected under the same conditions, i.e. to meet the conditions laid down in Article 3. I can't say that you're partly wrong, but the fact is that, like our network of basic courts and courts of special jurisdiction, because of the famous laws that were voted in 2008 and 2009, it's still in one state that it's not functional enough. The establishment of such a special court of offense, which would only deal with the area of economic crime for crimes, at this point, I understand you so much, let's not just be about the public procurement procedure, but about the enterprise violation, at this point it's really not possible to meet, given what our financial situation is. This is how we have a commission that must exist, and why shouldn't the one who has, be sure, far greater capacities, but now our courts of offenses, be in charge of a misdemeanor procedure? Anyway, we thank you for your good intentions to fix this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9754	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9755	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, this is a very important topic, since several issues have now been raised that point to conceptual differences, differences in approach. I'll only call for an explanation why our amendment was rejected. That's exactly what these problems are all about. You said the misdemeanor courts showed exceptional ineffectiveness. It's written in an explanation for the rejection of the amendments, and now during the discussion you've said a number of things that really deserve comment, because they can cause problems in the next period. You said that judges were doing bad things in public procurement and that they were making judgments because of the inexperiences that certain persons had assumed or who had committed a misdemeanor to decide. If we're already getting into that controversy, then we need to see who found it. Here is a group of 138 MPs who proposed the law and this is how the evaluations are made. So you have insight into these data and that a large number of cases, which were conducted in criminal courts by public procurement, were done by judges who were inexperienced, who did not know the job and that they misjudged. Where's the danger of that attitude? If you draw the conclusion from that that the misdemeanors should not do so, it means that tomorrow some legislator can exempt a number of areas from the criminal proceedings and form special authorities that will judge on the basis of the assessment that unprofessional and unexperienced judges have done so. I agree with you and it was a basic criticism of the DSS all these four years, that the judiciary is in very poor shape and that it's a bad law on the network of courts and that it's a bad re-election and that the cases have been filled with courts and that there are major problems in the judiciary, but we cannot therefore exempt the area from the judiciary and assign it to specialised bodies. There's a problem. So, before entering such qualifications, of course, we need to do a serious analysis and say - we have data on the number of infringements that have been resolved in this way and in this way, on the judges that have done so, so that the proceedings against these judges who are inexperienced, unprofessional, incompetent, who have ruled. It is a very important topic, and therefore we insisted that no special court be formed, rather than that it is formed the larger one that would deal with these affairs and that it is seen within the criminal court whether there are judges who would specialize on this subject. This is how we can get into one situation to create an atmosphere that judges in certain topics are unprofessional and that we have to exempt certain areas from criminal courts, to assign them to specialised bodies, to state bodies, to special organisations that would conduct criminal acts, and we all know that in many such cases, violations are prescribed for certain acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9756	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9757	I don't mean to be a fool, but your government has introduced this practice that customs have their judges for violations. You can't measure the Ministry of Finance with this commission, which is independent in its work, and the Ministry of Finance, which conducts a misdemeanor procedure through the Customs Authority, is an executive authority. Who has greater independence? Due to such provisions of the Customs Procedure Act and customs administration, open the Constitutional Court website, and see how much they are challenged. I call on you to see what parallel courts from the authorities look like, and quite differently this matter is regulated. As far as the current judges are concerned, the information I'm presenting to you has been available to everyone. Even one of your MPs was when there was a debate on public procurement, when the DRI took part, when they presented their data on how many cases they did and filed criminal charges, how many criminal charges, how many were liberating, how many were there. What's worse, when the courts are on the line, the procedure of bringing in the powers, whether they're liberating or not, is barely moving 10%. That's the problem. Now leave it to us to arrange for this term of office for violations, to enable them to start doing the job properly, and you agree that it is not possible to do it in a few months without this law entering into application and not suffering until it happens. That was our intention. When the courts for violations of the general jurisdiction of the office, put on the system properly, then we will surely have amendments and additions to this law, to return jurisdiction to them which belong to them, but until that moment we must not allow one law to suffer because of the consequences that someone else has produced, which unfortunately we all experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9758	Thank you. Members of the 141st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic, Jovana Joksnjimovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's right system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Radaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9759	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment on the matter of the Republic Commission, i.e. members and president of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights, where we have asked to increase the experience of these people who will be elected, that members of the Commission, instead of three years, have five years of experience in the field of public procurement, and that the President of the Commission, instead of five years, is seven years old. Mr. Arsic, I don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment, because this commission has received much more power under this law. They'll have much more important decisions to make. I don't understand why we don't put the most professional people we have in Serbia, no matter what political parties they come from, and not at three years of working experience in public procurement? Please look again and accept the amendment, because there are only seven members of the commission, no more. I think it's good to accept a amendment like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9760	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 141 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The representative and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. . The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's correct system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee adopted the amendment. . The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's correct system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's right system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9761	In view of the fact that the Proposer has provided for rather severe conditions for the selection of members of the Republic Commission, the conditions that should be met even for the selection of judges of the Court of Justice, it is a completely illogical provision for us that the Republic Commission, the Secretary of the Republic Commission, who manages the implementation of the decisions of the Republic Commission, through the implementation of infringement decisions, a person who will be managed by a large-scale administration within the Republic Commission, that such loose conditions for selection are foreseen. Or that he is required to have five years of legal experience. It's like a man with a primary school coming to be Secretary of the Republic Assembly. It's that level, for such a serious place, a man who's supposed to run all these jobs, and he's supposed to have only five years of legal experience, in general, to have five years of work experience. It scares me that such a provision is simply, I'm sorry that Mr. Arsic is not here... Are you there? I haven't seen you, I've focused on the amendment, and you're walking. Great. So, I'm afraid this provision is meant for one particular person. Just don't let us, Mr. Arsic, write laws and law enforcement laws that identify those who already have that function to perform. It is necessary to raise the conditions for this job to be done for ten years, because if the members and president of the Commission are to meet the conditions for selecting the judges of the basic court, then at least that person must be ten years old in legal affairs and have certain knowledge and opportunities and experience needed to implement all these decisions. Let us not adapt the law to individuals, but let us really accept this amendment and set the conditions that will contribute much to the plant functioning of the Republic Commission Secretariat itself, because through further amendments we have proposed a series of provisions that need to improve the functioning of the secretariats and the Republic Commission itself. This way we want to show our interest in getting through to an effective solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9762	Thank you. You saw Mr. Arsic consult during the session. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9763	My colleague, I think these conditions that you have provided for the amendment are too strict, because yet this is just one independent body in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I really don't know, but what is the experience, let's say, necessary in the affairs of the legal profession, don't find yourself here now, I really don't know, let's say, being a secretary in the government or in some other body that's also doing an important job for the state? Don't make things harder now than most responsible places, and they're tough enough like this, believe me. For most jobs, this same species does not exist in our legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9764	Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9765	Mr. Arsic, there is a difference between the names and the faces that are elected in the competition. The minister may be a man with a primary school, but the secretary of state in the ministry and assistant minister must meet the qualifications that are foreseen. He has to have a mandatory high-end training equipment, and the minister can be a man without even a class of elementary school. That's the basic difference. Here we choose a professional person who chooses to compete and who has to meet certain conditions. Don't when it suits you to relocate the position of the Republic Commission, say it's one small independent body, and on the other hand we give it the authority to conduct a first-degree infringement procedure and certain executive powers. You will later see that there is a practical seizure, a fishing room, an individual hearing, and on the other hand we demean. So if we take into account the competences of the Republic Commission, the seriousness of selecting members of the Republic Commission, I think for ten years, we can put eight here, it doesn't matter, but more than five years certainly something that is suitable for the work experience needed to perform this function. Mr. Arsic, I'm going to convert the name of the man who's supposed to be here. When he's elected, we'll open the envelope to see if I was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9766	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9767	At no point did I say that the Commission is a small authority, I just said that there is a serious authority in the system of state administration. Also, don't set stricter conditions than conditions for judges and prosecutors. I don't think even the Supreme Court judge meets the conditions that you've foreseen with your amendment. When we talked about the secretary of state, I didn't mention the secretary of state, I mentioned, let's say, the government's secretary. He cares about the legality of decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And so are the secretary of state. According to your amendment, if we were to make it a condition for which someone could be a secretary of state, they would also not have met them. Do not set criteria that are stricter than they are, and much more stringent than they are in domestic law, on the one hand. On the other hand, believe me, I don't know who it's about. If you can, get me an envelope, and let me know when to open.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9768	Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9769	Mr. Arsic, I'm trying to point out to you the difference between the names and the faces and faces chosen by the Assembly and the persons elected in the contest. So we can get into a situation where the vice president of the Assembly is a person without a day of education, but a person who works in the Assembly has to have a certain education. We're talking here about people who choose to compete, by systematization, and for whom one level and degree of education and work experience and skills in a particular area is required. So we need to distinguish the people who choose the people, who choose an organ like the government that sets it up, but we need to keep in mind that those people who choose to compete must meet certain conditions. The chairman of the Committee in the Serbian Parliament can theoretically be a person without a day of education if he is elected a MP, but the secretary of the board must have adequate education to lead the committee and prepare a session of the board. That's the only difference. The secretary of the board and employees of the Serbian Parliament are elected in a different way from the MP. We are talking about a person elected as Secretary of the Republic Commission, in a way that will be envisaged in a competition that will probably be called by the Republic Commission and we are talking about conditions here. So, for us, it's not a dispute, let's be five years, but let's do it in a way that we've suggested a slightly stronger criterion, given the seriousness it takes. I fully agree with some of your views, but we think it would be good in this case, because of the specificity of this organ, the enormous powers, to slightly improve the criteria for choosing this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9770	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Radakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9771	Mr. President, I have a question for you. Maybe I missed the amendment that was accepted by Mrs. Vesna Jovicki on Article 141 of Article 4 we won't discuss it after he's been accepted by the promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9772	That amendment was just before the amendment we spoke of, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9773	All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9774	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. The proposer's representative and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic to Article 145. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 147th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 147th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, the Soul of Morts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9775	Article 147 regulates the responsibility for the work of the Republic Commission and points 10 is said to - delivers a solution to the misdemeanour procedure it has taken. This amendment of ours is about a member of 139 that we've talked a lot about here, which is that we believe that a misdemeanor procedure should not be conducted by a republican committee, but rather by a criminal court. So that I don't repeat everything my colleagues have been saying, because we think we've been clear enough about this, I ask you once again to think about this. This is extremely important regarding this law on public procurement, not to make mistakes, that we should improve the work of courts, that we should arrange that area, that everyone should do their job and not make exceptions that we haven't made before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9776	Members of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Milan Lapčević. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9777	I'm sorry he's not here right now, because I want to ask him a question about this article 149. We have some misunderstandings. There is a reason why we have submitted this amendment – because there are some illogicalities, i.e. Two members of the law are not exactly in line. I don't know if I should start talking about it or wait for a proposing representative, I don't know what you're thinking, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9778	Start with you, I assume Mr. Arsic is only out for a moment. But I will ask one of my colleagues to call him, to hear your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9779	We have some misunderstanding, and it's really here, like we said, it's all been a really good intention. Here we want to, maybe we didn't understand the solutions you put in, so we want you to explain. If not, we hope you will accept this amendment because we believe that Article 149 of Article 3 which regulates that the bidder may apply for protection of rights no later than seven days before the deadline for submission of tenders. So far, it's been the last day to submit bids. We have a clear intention that you wanted to prevent abuses that bidders use the mechanism to launch a claim for protection of rights at the last minute and that's fine. But we have a little problem, a 63rd member says... I don't know if I should say it again. (President: Go ahead. All right. In Article 63, it is said that bidders have the possibility that within five days before the deadline for submission of tenders they may request clarification as to the tendering process, the content of the call, and what if in those five days, the bidder asks for clarification as to, for example, tender documents? The orderer to clarify, then it becomes an integral part of the documentation. Then the bidder, as we have seen, I asked you to give me an explanation because maybe we didn't understand it, can't apply for the protection of the right of the bidder because this Article 149rd paragraph 3 said that it was no later than seven days before the deadline for submitting tenders. I'm going to point out once again that we understand your intention, that you wanted to prevent these abuses at the last moment, that the bidders came out with a request, but they were supposed to comply with these deadlines. Maybe if we had put it that it wasn't at least seven days later, but four days, if they had at least 24 hours? Or to find a solution, if you have already refused to delete this article, i.e. Item 3 of Article 149, you could have suggested that you propose and coordinate this with some proposal that the deadline should be second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9780	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9781	For one simple reason, because the moment he asked to be explained, he stopped the deadlines for filing a complaint and now they're starting to run from the moment he was given an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9782	Thank you. Members of the 153rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Deyan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9783	Our amendment is in place to speed up the process. It is simply a member who speaks of the behaviour of the contracting authority after a previous examination of the requirements for the protection of the rights of the tenderer and of the time limit under examination, of course. We only say in the article that point 1 is complemented to add words after the words – protection of the right, if each of the allegations of protection of the right is established. We specify this member, precisely for the sake of the effectiveness of the application of this law, in order to prevent the submission of those requirements for a preliminary examination that would be in the function of delaying the procedure. We're only talking here to supplement this article with the words - if, as established, each of the allegations for the protection of the rights of the bidder. It means that only the requirement established can be taken into account and that those requirements which are unfounded and which are not in the function of effective implementation of certain procurement, efficiency of the procedure, accuracy, truthfulness, that those requests be rejected which are in the function of abuse of the rights guaranteed by this law. We believe that this solution can help prevent abuse of a procedure that will certainly be done if someone intends to compromise this procurement process itself and prevent the choice of the most favourable bidder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9784	Thank you. Members of the 156th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 157th Amendment were submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 157th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Deyan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9785	This is one in a series of amendments relating to a misdemeanour procedure. We are asking here to delete from the member concerned the decisions of the Republic Commission – the decision on a misdemeanor procedure and that is in line with what we have proposed earlier, where we do not agree that the Republic Commission has the possibility of making first-degree infringement decisions. That, consistently through all the other members, we have amendments that erase this authority of the Republic Commission, because we believe, I will repeat that here, that we should work to improve the criminal court. In the context of the criminal court, the amending law provides for a particularly large one to be dealt with by both the State Auditor and the Procedures through the Public Procurement Act and through a network of courts that are certainly not good, and we agree that this should be fixed and done by a system, a judicial one, which will function in Serbia. We have a judicial system that slows down and after a thunderous reform announced in previous years, this system does not work. Again, the courts are the narrow throat of justice, justice, justice in Serbia. We here need to change the courts and change the network of courts, and we don't make solutions that are hybrids in our legal system, that can at some point do harm and open one rule that all the organs that we're going to form here or the organs whose way we're going to work are going to change, that we're going to let them handle the misdemeanors. By making a mess and bringing confusion into a constitutional provision where citizens have the right to know how the legal system works and to create one chaos and to question citizens, bidders, ordermakers, before which courts and how the proceedings are conducted. That is why we believe that a network of courts should be changed, the Law on Violent Courts and the Republic Commission should be completed, and the jurisdiction it has. The State Auditor is a constitutional category. The Republic Commission is an institution introduced by law. So, leave the jurisdiction of the state auditor and that's to initiate a misdemeanor procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9786	Thank you. Members of the 161st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9787	Perhaps we from the DSS may have bored the promoter and the public, but simply, we have seriously approached the resolution and analysis of this law, we have put a large number of amendments, none of which have been accepted, and the public has had the opportunity to see, because these are all justified amendments, meaningful, which are in the function of correcting this bill and almost the whole system of public procurement in Serbia. We asked to delete Article 161. - control of the client, because we believe that members of the Republic Commission that we have already seen are not all legal professions, that there are those who have knowledge from some technical sciences, which have no connection with law, are given authority of the authorities, to say, the authorities of the MUP or the tax police. I'll just read - a member of the Republic Commission that conducts control, has been authorised to carry out a review, copy documents related to the procurement in question, but all of them in the client's rooms, stamp and business premises, documents during the controls, take statements from the client and other employees at the client. If a special written statement is required, a deadline for the submission of a statement to the Republic of the Commission will be set. These are responsibilities from the domains of other procedures conducted by the police and conducted by the prosecution and carried out in some areas by financial police, giving the Republic Commission jurisdiction to seal business premises, documents, to listen to the representatives of the contracting authorities and powers far exceed the professional abilities of members of the Republic Commission. Our concern is that this could lead to a series of abuses in the realization of this member. Secondly, I am sorry that my colleague Cvian is not here, who is the chairman of the Committee. I spoke to him before this session, that this is a very tense constitutional category, to allow members of the committee, without the court's authority, to listen to the seals of the room. Property rights, property violations, real rooms, can only be restricted under the law and based on a court ruling. Here we come to the situation that members of the Republic Commission, who may not have the knowledge of rights, procedural rights or any other knowledge of how this kind of investigation is conducted, go to the contracting authorities, listen to the stamps of the premises, investigate, exercise the authority of the prosecution, police or financial police. For us, this solution is extremely constitutionally controversial and can open up a series of possibilities for abuses, which may have unconceived consequences. Imagine if someone came to a public company now, to seal all the rooms, listen to people, listen to the director, and that it's not the prosecutor, the police, the financial police, or the court's decision to do it. This opens up the possibility of abuses, and by the very fact that those persons, members of the Republic Commission, do not need to have the knowledge necessary to do this job. We don't think it's good that this exists. If there is a need, of course, for these powers to be exercised, for the Republic Commission to establish good co-operation with the prosecution and the police and for the ultimate effective, as the Deputy Prime Minister Vukic has now started, to fight corruption and to sanction those who would violate this law extremely effectively and quickly. This is what we all need to be the goal, that all segments of society and state function well and efficiently, not that we are trying to impose first-degree infringements into one law, and the powers of the prosecution, the police, members of the Republic Commission and everything else to ensure efficiency. The whole country needs to work effectively. As the government now has absolute and unreserved support to fight crime and corruption, so you will have support in all other segments relating to the construction of an effective state, which will be dealt with with with with with with with crime through both this law and all other laws that can provide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9788	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have these little, obviously, disagreements. We're not the first ones to make this up. See the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Let's make a difference between the invulnerability of the apartment and the business space. Let's see when someone's got a registered activity, if he's got some kind of integrity to private property. How come, for example, tax police can enter a facility, a business space, even one that is not registered as a business space, but it is suspected that works related to the tax procedure and tax administration are being performed. Under that same law, they can even enter, check, that some of the documents are not taken into private possession, they can confiscate equipment, they can confiscate accounting data, they can issue only a receipt and they can carry out further control. I think that law was passed by your government, and then he wasn't unconstitutional. So this isn't about the integrity of the apartment, it's not about breaking the Constitution, it's about checking out the business space. All public authorities with certain public powers, when it comes to the exercise of activity, are not fully applied to them by the inviolability of private property, because they carry out certain activities, so that we do not enter into that story anymore. I don't know how many times I have to tell you about the composition of the commission, at least four of the seven, have to meet the conditions to be judges. What more will you be a lawyer?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9790	Thank you. The word is Dejan Michael, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9791	I am not like my colleagues from other parties to say – this law has not been passed by us, but has been brought on the proposal of your current coalition partners, which they would have done and said it was a proposal from Mladjan Dinkic. (Veroljub Arsic, from the post: You voted. We voted and we agree with that, Mr. Arsic. I won't use it as an excuse, on the contrary, I think the tax police and the financial police should have powers and that's completely different, because they're in public income collection. Taxes are public revenue. They are full of budgets, and they must have the authority to take care of the application of the law, i.e. the collection of taxes. We fully agree with that, and we have no problem with the tax police having the right to exercise absolute control in the premises of the company's purchasers. As far as we're concerned, there's no problem here, but here we're talking about a Republic Commission that doesn't even deal with public incomes, it doesn't deal with other matters, we're talking about a Republic Commission, which has one authority, which in our view exceeds its possibilities. I understand, there are six members, seven, president and six members in the Republic Commission. So, they should be tried in a misdemeanor procedure, they should take care of the application of this law, they should go and collect documentation in offices and rooms across Serbia. So, the orders are not only from Belgrade, but from all over Serbia. So, we'll have seven supermen or we'll leave it to the secretary and members of the Republic Commission, the employees of the Republic Commission. So we're talking about the tax police having one wide system all over Serbia, and the tax administration, and that's completely different things. Here we are talking about the competences of a narrowly specialised body of the Republic Commission, which deals with the Law on Public Procurement and the Protection of Procedures, Procedures and Protection of State Interest in the Public Procurement process. It's different things to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9792	Thank you, Mr. Michael. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9793	My friend, I think at least we agreed on something. You are prepared to give certain powers to a state authority to improve the efficiency of tax collection. Here, I agree. It's a little unusual, but that's right. On the other hand, you disagree that these same revenues provided by these authorities and taxpayers are controlled in a similar way. It's like when you find a good source, you place a tap on it, but you pour it into the bucket where the bottom is pierced. That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9794	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9795	During this whole debate, we really wanted to remove the problems that existed in the previous Public Procurement Act by establishing effective mechanisms to remove these abuses in application. All our amendments went that way. Our key objection to the commission is just being looked at in this concentration of jurisdiction which is truly amazing. The fact that there are abuses in public procurement should not be an obstacle to other institutions doing their job to remove them. Look what's concentrated on this committee. When a man looks, it's rare to find an organ that has it. That organ initiates the procedure, conducts all these actions, preys, closes, takes documentation, investigates, hearsays and judges, all the same people. That is the people's. The incense sues you. The incense judgeth you. An institution is being investigated, heard, facts are being determined, persons are being heard, and the same authority is making a decision. It's rare where you find an organ that has such a concentration. With all these justifications, the need to remove problems relating to public procurement, but this kind of power in one organ is problematic because abuse can occur, and that's always said. Whoever's accusing us can't rule, and that's our fundamental grudge here. The second authority should determine whether something happened in the procurement process. That is why we believe that other institutions should do this job, and criminal courts and police and the prosecution and all other bodies, and not the same body of all these powers to consume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9796	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9797	Now that we're reading about what was done in the public procurement system, citizens often ask me a question – it's okay, it's nice that you want to deal with it and it needs to, but what do we have from it, where is the money stolen from the state. Now we're going to initiate other litigation procedures to compensate the state for damages, the spoils of property created by committing a crime, etc. Why don't you explain to me how if the commission doesn't have that authority, it can check whether the contract is closed or not, and it's doubtful that it is? That he's writing a criminal report to the prosecutor, who's going to do it within 30 days, 60 days, 90 days? There's one more thing. This is not a matter of action, this is a question of public spending. Whoever wants to participate in this story should participate and accept the rules of the games that are in this law. Whoever won't, doesn't have to. Those who do public procurement, no one here beats anyone in the ears or be a member of the commission, or be the director of a public enterprise. No one's making anyone do it. It's his choice. If that's his choice, he also has to adhere to one of these rigorous laws, because just because of the broad interpretation of the legislation, we came here today where we are. This law is not only a desire to do something better, but rather a goal to save what is left to save. Look, I don't want to get into any more big controversy and discussion, but the greatest abuses were in public procurement... (President: Time. I'm done. Just because we allowed the law to be widely and overly interpreted, and even when it was discovered, what of those who had lost funds, which are citizens on the one hand, and on the other hand there is still a mechanism of judicial protection, i.e. the launch of the administrative dispute before the competent court and is decided as the final instance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9798	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9799	We absolutely agree, that's what all our representatives said, that there were huge abuses in public procurement and that the motivation of proposing this law was absolutely justified. We even said that the many solutions proposed by this law are good. We've offered amendments to fix this, but we can't accept the fact that we're fighting abuse in public procurement, that we're breaking some age-old rules that one organ can't accuse, that it determines the truth and that it judges. We want to believe in institutions, we want to believe in the prosecution, we want to believe in courts. If We say, "We do not believe them, it will be done by an organ, it creates dangerous precedents." We can agree that the institutions were not good, but we cannot ignore the principle of respecting the institutions and ignoring their work. In this case, our difference between you and us in this concept is that we want to trust the institutions, regardless of the problems they have and to let them work and, by strengthening these institutions, come to the fact that this law is most effectively applied and its good solutions in practice prevent abuses. We do not want to create special organs that will be able to devalue the same institution by concentrating in their hands. We want to strengthen the institutions and what our basic request is. We want to follow rules that are always respected. Let me do it again. The organ cannot, however short of the need to prevent abuse, determine and judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9800	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Michael. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9801	Yeah. The Republic Commission has seven members. Given all that Mr Palalic has said that the Republic Commission is deciding on the protection and right of the bidders, this is the first authority, one major republican commission, that members of the Republic Commission are investigating, conducting the investigation procedure, sealing the premises and all other and third powers to conduct the infringement procedure, and we have only seven members of the Republic Commission. How many members will be made up of the larger republican commissions if there are five members, from four to five, to say that there are five? So five lawyers need to form three councils that will decide in one procedure. None of these five lawyers should repeat themselves to be in those two larger ones, because this would mean that the procedure itself is nothing because in either procedure the same member of the Republic's commission cannot decide. You're telling me that five judges, five members of the Republic Commission, are in three proceedings that will be conducted before the Republic Commission, which is a decision on the protection of the right, that certain members of the Republic Commission go and conduct investigations in the premises of the contracting authorities, to see if there is a contract, whether there is no contract, to hear, to seal the premises and to carry out a third procedure, which is a violation procedure, and that's all these five people. I don't think it's realistic to carry out this procedure the way you planned it. Then we need to assume that the Republic Commission has many more members, that it is forming a particularly infrequently larger which would only be dealt with by the Republic Commission and which would not have any contact with all these previous proceedings following the debate on the infringement to be done. I think that put in place, with this number of members of the Republic Commission, this will be difficult to implement, and we will be in a situation that some decisions will not be implemented because of insufficient numbers of members, due to conflicts of interest and because they will come to this because you will be sued by a cadium in one procedure, and in another court and will come to the conclusion that the system will be paralysed again. So consider increasing the number of members of the Republic Commission, or if you are already insisting on a first-degree infringement council within the Republic Commission, that it is specifically formed and that these members of the Republic Commission are only dealing with this business, that they have no contact with this latter, in order to ensure the constitutional principle of impartial trial in criminal and any other proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9802	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9803	You are constantly acting as if the Commission is party to the procedure. She's an arbiter. It is not a party to the procedure, it is an arbiter in the procurement process, which is what it is, between bidders and public procurement providers. Why are you questioning something like that now, on the one hand? On the other hand, who chooses these members of the Commission? The National Assembly. She chooses and solves. I understand to you those good regulations of the law that they are not controversial and I wish that we could and have capacity, not as a proposing, but that the state has the capacity to have more members, to be there, as you suggest it to be, and especially greater for a violation in the composition of that body. But you can't say, basically, the violation procedure in this part is at the level of the administrative dispute. There is judicial protection and you can't say – cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. It started, got a solution, and based on that solution, someone filed a complaint with the Administrative Court. If there's a basis, the appeal will be passed. The ultimate goal is to try those resources that we have today, both financially and technically and personally, to reduce the possibility of abuse in the procurement process. I'm also absolutely sure, because this law is in a lot of newspapers, it's going to show its good side, but it's going to show its bad side. We don't run away from it and accept it as part of our responsibility. We're not running away from where we're wrong, we're writing amendments and additions to the law, and we're removing those mistakes. Let's try to pass the law to see where he's good and where he's bad. So if we continue, I thank you for the constructive debates, but if we continue like this, essentially, we're just slowing down the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9804	The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go. Just to let you know, Mr. Petkovic, your parliamentary group has half a minute to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9805	As we conclude this debate, I would like to say that it will be marked by one complete contradiction, Mr. Arsic. When we talk here about the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights and there's a concentration of power, you say it's an independent and professional organ. When I submit to the amendment that the dignity of the Republic Commission should be respected, you say in your explanation – the high degree of independence leads to irresponsibility in the work. Make up your mind whether it's an independent body or not, whether it's independent or not, rather than ad hoc, from amendments to amendments, that you present attitudes that are not consistent.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9806	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9807	Independence is seen in the decision-making process, and control is examined in the reporting process. It's obviously mine and your diversity in terms of understanding independence. The commission must report to the Assembly and be under the control of the Assembly. She is not independent of the Assembly, what she has done, but she is independent of the proceedings, and she is responsible for the results of this procedure whether they were in accordance with the law or not. It cannot be an absolute inviolability for non-legislative features, even if they are members of this commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9808	Petar Petkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9809	Mr. Arsic, you didn't define it that way. These various interpretations, here we have not yet passed the law, but are opening up the possibility of various abuses. That's one thing. Secondly, if the Republic Commission is to report to the Serbian Parliament, does this mean that we should be buried with a bunch of material and do the work of the Republic Commission, instead of leaving this job to them, because that is why we choose them? The point is, do we have one body that needs to be independent, which should be submitted to the Serbian Parliament, but that when it is submitted, the Republic Commission itself ceases to be independent? What do we have as a consequence when we have such an example? We have that there will be direct political pressure and then we bring this law for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9810	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9811	My colleague, I think it is the problem of this country that the National Assembly has often been unable to consider the reports of the state authorities. As an opposition MP, I loved them, and I was trying to know what the state authorities were doing, what their reports were, to see them, to consider them, to talk about them in this room. I rarely had that chance. So if these gentlemen who are in the Commission and who sit in the Commission know that one day everyone will sit here and be criticised by the opposition, if they have sinned, rich and this ruling majority, I would like to see what decisions they will make – will they be in accordance with the law or will they be in accordance with other interests? The best way to control all organs is to have their own public work. There's no better control. I'm not going to use some of the expressions some of the others used because no one understood them, such as transparency. But the public in the work is something that is the best system of fighting corruption. That's why these reports have to be submitted to the Assembly. Your choice is whether you're going to watch them, whether you're going to read them, or you're going to throw them right in the basket. It's your right as an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9812	Mr. Petkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9813	It's very short, just so we're done. You see that I have seriously approached this topic and has simply become involved in this debate. I'm not one of those MPs who's going to throw what he's getting in the basket. You should know that right away. It's not about that at all. In fact, it's about the principle – do we have one organ that should, first of all, be governed by this law? Should he have certain duties and obligations? You should. Of course he needs his business and his work to be public, but he must also have a certain responsibility for what he does. That's why these people who are being placed there should be professional, and that's why we even asked the Secretary of the Republic Commission to have the experience of 10 years, that what they're looking at, and that's serious papers, serious documentation, and they understand. The Serbian Parliament is passing laws here, and that's the job of the MPs. If he's supposed to be doing all kinds of paperwork right now, then let's turn this home into a Republican Commission for the Protection of Rights. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9814	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9815	Thank you. I hope my comment won't cause long-term reactions, like when there was a debate over the amendment. Maybe if this wasn't the kind of mess in the field of public procurement, maybe something like this would be justified. When we have one chaos and we have an uncontrollable spending of the public funds of taxpayers, our citizens, then we have to give special powers to the Commission, because, for the hundredth time we say, we are getting into trouble if we don't get in the way of this evil, we are really going to get in trouble. I don't see any reason why at this point, and I agree with my colleague Arsic, that in perspective, if there are any problems in application or abuse, we will be able to make changes and additions and so change what doesn't work or is being misused. I say once again that the law is great, that it was at a public debate, that everyone had the opportunity to make suggestions, comments, remarks, suggestions, everything else, and that it was a good thing to start a new period in which we express hope that there would be complete control in the field of public procurement, that there would be no abuse in the client, that no bidders would be able to work by agreeing with the contracting authorities, so I don't think this should be the subject of the debate anymore, and I would ask that we move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9816	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9817	As we come to what the National Assembly should do, it is regulated by the Constitution, the Law on the National Assembly in Article 15 of the National Assembly's jurisdiction, and control - in the exercise of the control function of the National Assembly shall supervise the work of the Government and decide on the termination of the mandate of the Government and ministers, the control and supervision of the security services, the governor of the NBS, the Protector of Citizens, other bodies and bodies in accordance with the law. These are the responsibilities of the National Assembly and do not give up these powers when you are in power or when you are in opposition, because you always need them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9818	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Petar Petkovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic. The proposer's representative and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petrovic submitted to Article 165 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9819	This should be my last announcement, and through the explanation of the amendment, I'll try to say what our position is. This amendment concerns the infringement procedure, and it shows that, in particular, the Council of the Republic of Republics, is in charge of a misdemeanour procedure, which is a procedure conducted to protect the rights of tenderers and members of the Republic of the Commission through the competences they have under this law are carrying out all of the following investigative actions. We have proposed this amendment to delete the infringement procedure and to remove the Republic Commission as it is now for very large and serious competencies, with a very important role to play in our legal system and in general the public procurement system, and all in the function of combating abuse in the public procurement system, save money that can be used for other functions and other purposes. We believe that a misdemeanor procedure should be conducted either by law enforcement courts or by the motionor to find some solution that will not be at the heart of the effectiveness of the work of the Republic Commission. We have shown five legal acts within the Republic Commission through three different procedures to be conducted to participate in this, and that is not exactly their basic function to be done. It's one of the functions they're doing. We will come to a situation where they are only dealing with it, that they cannot achieve it and that at some point reach the blockade of the public procurement system because the Republic Commission itself will become a narrow throat because of all the powers it has. We believe that the Republic Commission should certainly be strengthened, strengthened by its administration, made possible to meet... (President: Time. I'm using the time of the head of the parliamentary group. I'm done. I've exhausted everything. I'll be done in half a minute. We have tried to spend everything and convince the promoter of the purpose of the amendments that we have submitted, that they are in the function of correcting the text of the laws that colleagues and the public were able to make sure that the amendments were in the function of improving the efficiency of public procurement, protecting the bidders, protecting the contracting authorities and protecting the public revenues that should be in the function of all citizens, not the handful that participates in the procurement process. (President: Time. ) Therefore, given that 27 amendments are a third of the amendments submitted to this law, and none has been adopted, the DSS cannot support such a bill in a voting day. We intended to vote in favour of the law if amendments through the debate were accepted. No amendment has been accepted, and I believe that the public, fellow MPs and the promoter themselves saw that the amendments were in the function of correcting the text of the law and that they would make a significant contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9820	Mr. Michael, you've been talking for a minute and a half longer than expected. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radaković and Jovana Joksimovic. The proposer's representative and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Bozidar Djelic and Janko Radakovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that after article 168, Glava nine and member 168a be added. The proposer's representative and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9821	Thank you. In the end, we came before the last members, in front of our most important amendment that you did not accept, which we talked about several times during this debate. We've made an amendment to the savings you've talked about both you and Mr. Arsic and the president of this assembly. (President: I ask the People's Messengers to enable other people's messengers to exhibit as well. ) You bid on savings that will be from this law from 600 to a billion euros. We've made an amendment to make a public procurement fund and make that money go to agriculture, to help pensioners, 100% pay pregnant women. I don't know why you won't accept that. Your explanation that you have given why you do not accept the amendment says – a non-efficient solution is proposed that practically sanctioned orderrs to make savings and provide funds for the Fund. You're saying someone who wants to give money to the Fund is sanctioned and the Fund has the RS government back. It's only ten minutes. You told Mr. Michaels – they ask us citizens what we have from this Public Procurement Act? I ask you - what do Serbian citizens have from the Public Procurement Act if they stay in public enterprises or if I don't know where they don't go to this Savings Fund? I ask you to answer at least this question since you have not answered any amendments during the entire debate. Please answer me why you will not accept this amendment. If you accept this amendment, we will vote for this law. Please, 600 million or a billion euros is a serious figure we can spend on corridors, agriculture and pensioners. Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9822	Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I never said that the citizens asked me what they had from this law, but they asked what they benefit from being persons who did organized crime and corruption. That's the first thing. Another thing, savings. The public procurement system itself or the functioning of the state predicts that you cannot put everything under one hat because it does not go from the RS budget. Not all public procurements from the RS budget are some of the revenues of public enterprises, some of the revenues generated by local self-government, some of the revenues generated by the AP Vojvodina, some of the revenues of local self-government companies. Imagine your colleagues from Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic who would make certain savings through the application of this law, and those funds had to be transferred to the republican budget. I think he'd open a hole in the sky. You would have serious party problems if you accepted this amendment. Imagine President or Mayor Gilas making certain savings in the public procurement system, so that money should be transferred, spent by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic or someone else from the Fund. I think he'd open a hole in the sky. So, savings in the public procurement process are looked at in that the service or goods which is the subject of public procurement pay as much as it has the actual market value. If savings are made, it can be returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget and transferred to next year, if it is a republican body that spends funds from the budget, and shown as surpluses and gets some other purpose, some other use or to rebalance and continue to carry out your work and for that same money with which savings are made you order a new good or service. So the savings are not only seen where you're going to see how much money is left, but also where you're going to see if more is done with more money. It's savings. It's just like when someone goes to the store, so the example works, for the same money buys three boxes of cookies, and yesterday they could have two. So that's what this is about. That amendment of yours... (President: Time, Mr. Arsic. I can spend my time with a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9824	You can't. You've got the word "proposer." The word is made by MP Janko Radakovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9825	Mr Arsic, I'm telling you on behalf of Bojan Pajtic, Dragan Gilas, that we want savings in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. May Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have that 600m or a billion euros, according to Nebojsa Stefanovic, but let's see where those savings are. First, it's not 600 million and it's not a billion euros. There'll be savings, but let's see how much it is. Let's give that money to the pensioners. Who's the founder of all these public enterprises and everything we've listed, who's calling public procurement? The government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia. Who's the founder? Of course, the province and local self-government. I've talked about it before, but I said we accept it. We don't want to talk about public enterprises. With all the respect you've brought there, these people don't know how to do business. You'll get that money, maybe the people in prison are the ones who need to be in prison and who are responsible, on the one hand, you'll see it, but the facts will be in court. The fact is that Mr. Simonovic, called Sima, worked for 20 years at the Railways as a detour. (President: Time, Mr. Radakovic. ) Please, if you're already talking, you've talked more than once about savings in the campaign, I ask you – how much are these savings? Let's make a fund. You don't want a fund. If the problem is the city of Belgrade or the province, take away the city of Belgrade and the province. Let's see where that money goes. If you don't want pensioners, pregnant women, and you don't want infrastructure, let me know where you want to go. It's no problem, we'll accept everything, and for KIM, and for everything you say, just say where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9826	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9827	I now report for the amendment, as the MP from the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9828	Mr. Arsic, if you answer on that basis, you'll have to wait, since there are a lot of registered speakers before you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9829	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we are witnessing a new parliamentary practice, which is that the opposition believes in a law that proposes power, and that the government itself does not believe in the effects and scope of the law itself. You believe in this law, you would predict where these 600m euros will go, as some say, or a billion euros, say others from the bicep government, as you call yourself. So it's obviously a citizen fraud, because there's no savings here. If there were savings, it would be projected in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is where the masks fall and you see that you have all the imagination, and the diploma, and the Law on Public Procurement and Savings, and the directors of public enterprises, it's all stealth technology. That's what only you see, that's what Serbian citizens don't see. When you talk about the domains and scopes of the law of confiscation of property acquired by crime, you did not vote for the law. I was sitting here in the Assembly. That law is a proposal from the DS. The effects of the law are half a billion euros in the Republika Srpska budget, divided by users. Don't lecture us about what you didn't advocate. I think it would be very nice for you to accept this amendment so that you know where the effects of those savings you are designing will go, to show that you believe, to show the citizens of Serbia that you believe in the law you propose. Otherwise, I think it's a big accident when a man doesn't know what he wants, and a real disaster when he doesn't know what he can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9830	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are some discussions I don't want to debate. I think it's worth that saying to some people -- it's free to whisper deaf and wink at a dead end. From what I understand, the applicant, he asks, for example, that the revenues generated by the JKP Vodavod and the sewerage from Pogorec, if they make savings on the public procurement plan, should be passed on to the Republic of Serbia's budget, into the fund formed by the DS. As far as I understand it, the Public Enterprise Toplification should do the same with the funds provided by the Firefighters, Kruševljani, Kraljevani, Novosadjani, Belgradens and not to list the others. People, when you talk like that, get down amongst those people. Will they agree with that? What you're asking for with your amendment, because of the way the budget system works, is impossible, unreal, inapplicable. It's utopia. It's the highest form of communism. I don't know what to call it anymore. There's no such thing as legal practice. It's impossible to accomplish in the field.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9832	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the post: Excuse me, may I ask, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, when I have the right to speak? You're up after Mr. Stojanovic. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the scene: What does that have to do with it? It's because we're tracking who's answering. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9833	I'll try to explain to my colleagues from the DS Parliament Club why this key amendment of theirs is unacceptable. You see, colleagues, at the end of the financial year, you won't have 600m or a billion euros more, but you won't have less in terms of the goods and services that business entities obtain through public procurement. Is that clear to you? Please, if any analysis were to be carried out, it will surely show that 99% of the funds provided for public procurement are spent by economic operators during the calendar year. The essence of this law is to prevent these 600m or a billion euros from ending in private pockets, rather than ending in the goods and services they are intended for. So, savings are in the goods and services that business entities, so what they paid to get by quality and quantity. How do you think, even if we have institutions dealing with the prevention of corruption, and even in this domain, much less savings will be if they are effective 100%. How much funds they will have through the confiscation and return of property, illegally acquired, through public procurement, certainly much less than 600m and a billion euros. Just passing this law prevents the crime and corruption in the area of public procurement, of 600m euros and a billion euros, from ending in private pockets. You won't have any surplus at the end of the year, but you won't have any shortages in the goods and services that business entities obtain through public procurement. We have all agreed here that this law is very good and you have grasped the key amendment by wanting to prove, politicizing the adoption of this law, and you want to collect some political points at the end of the year, to prove -- here, we have said that the SNS and the coalition gathered around them have said that they save 600 million or a billion euros, and at the end of the year we see that this fund is not. I think you're deliberately obstructing this and I'm saying that this law will save public procurement operators 600 million to a billion euros and it's impossible to form some special fund where these indicators would be explicitly displayed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9834	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Radenkovic has the word. You don't have time for an authorised representative, we're denying you time from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9835	Thank you, Vice President. What if it were? That is the purpose of this amendment. He's absolutely right. It is not possible for the contracting authorities to determine the expected savings for the next financial year. That's what we talked about with our colleague Djelic and discussed on the Finance Committee, and I don't think I see any reason for you to get this far anymore. I made a statement when I heard about your amendment, that it was pure demagogy, that it was an empty story. Don't even try to prove it's the right thing to do. It's impossible, it's pure politicization. How much savings will be, it depends on what kind of procurement they'll be, how transparent they'll be, what's going to happen here. This law will eliminate all of this and, of course, it will save itself, and it will be seen through the budget for next year, and not only on the board that we talked about, but last night we discussed it with counterpart Djelic, who is a little more professional than some colleagues here, when it comes to finance. It's not logical to measure the effects of savings in advance. What you've proposed with the amendment doesn't stand, and don't waste any time trying to convince us of something and the people who listen think that someone's going to put away 600,000, a million euros in advance, as far as it is. That's not true. I still have a lot of time, so I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9836	Thank you. Mr. Radakovic, did you want a replica? (Janko Radakovic: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9837	Thank you. There's no Mr. Arsic. Can you ask him to come, since I'm talking to him?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9838	I'll call him now. We'll wait for him. Do you agree, Mr. Radakovic, that we move on, so I'll give you my word as soon as Mr. Arsic shows up? (Janko Radakovic: Yes. ) The next one applied for the word of MP Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9839	Thank you very much. I don't mind when politically colored discussions start, let them continue, but it concerns the party, but as far as the Assembly is concerned, whatever motive it is when someone proposes an amendment, it must certainly not destroy the rights achieved. They are guaranteed by the Constitution. Any idea that in the final solution has to change and to save that which is realized, potential, I don't know if you'll be or won't, but if it's achieved in the town of Presevo or the town of Subotici, Senti, and thus reduces the potential deficit that exists in the city's budget, and by the way, I guess, as most local self-governments have come to their senses, so now that they've got bigger incomes, they're helping the village, the local community, the maternity or the pregnant, what they know best is their problem. Any idea that any law-making savings, from something that is the right of that community and their budget, are now coming into some government's budget, then it will determine how it's going to share, is simply a violation of the fundamental rights we have local self-government. Please, however political it is, let's not just take the risk that, because of some good idea, we had an example last night, a good idea, observed a practical flaw that leads to an unpleasant situation of harassing managers in public institutions of culture, in city institutions. So it was seen, so it turned into a political debate, in the end people didn't hear what specificities were. Why? Because there was a false argument that this applies to the authors. It doesn't apply to authors. The authors are not responding to public procurement, but to those who hire them. So when that kind of forest is introduced, then it can simply happen that we do not carefully consider something that was a good suggestion. I remind you once again, and I'm going back to last night's discussion, there was basically a good proposal that saw a shortage, but we can't go to some solution that threatens the fundamental human rights of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9840	Thank you. Mr. Radakovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9841	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, you've set an example for a public firm in Pozrevac. I ask you just one question - where do the funds from the public company Pogorec go if they do not use them within the budgets they received in the year, which are called unrealized funds? Where does the city's budget go if they don't make it happen in that year? It goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget, so it's being transferred. Who gives the city the fireman's budget? You here suggest that we save not the money, but that we put our word to the promoters. That's the point. Citizens believed your word when Tomislav Nikolic promised 10 billion euros a year if he came to power, so there is none of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9842	Mr. Arsic, just to let you know, you can use your time, since the time has come for you, as a People's MP, so you can continue. We'll bounce away from the MP's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that there are several laws here that are unknown. The first law is about small businesses, so the profit, the net profit shown by the public enterprise, is given to the founder. The founder of public enterprises in the territory of local self-government is local self-government, unless they were founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to receive the speaker. ) Public enterprise revenues are realised on the basis of the activity of public enterprises, which means that a public company, such as "Topulation" from Pogorec, since we mentioned it, is making its income at a 100% cost based on the collection of heat energy. They are public revenues, because they have a monopoly position on the market, but they are not revenues belonging to the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are revenues collected from citizens for the compensation of the use of heat and each public company works on that principle. You should know that local self-government, according to the Law on the financing of local self-government, has their own incomes that are original, which is, for example, tax on property and we have incomes that are entrusted by the Republic to a certain percentage. These are revenues made by local self-government. There is one smaller part for Pogorec, because it is a city that has large revenues, which is from the transfer funds of the Republic of Serbia and is the only part from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In order for this amendment of yours to live, anything that someone invests in their infrastructure and saves on investment in their infrastructure should be sent to the Republic budget. Then what would he be saving, and what motive would be to save him? Because this director of a public enterprise is responding to citizens to perform as many connections as possible in the territory where they exploit heat. If he's going back to the budget, then what? Next, what about the funds to be saved? Every public company, as we have our own budget here, and we define what resources we will spend on, and so the public enterprise has its own plan and investment programme that the local self-government unit gives its consent to. If it achieves savings and is left with extra funds, it may choose whether it will keep those funds in its account and transfer them to the next year or whether it is used for new investments under prior consent from the founder, i.e. the local self-government unit. That's how it works. You can nod your head, deny it, but just read the laws and see that I'm right. The aim of this law, as I said, is not to make funds, but to make the same public procurement with less money, or to make bigger public works with the same money, without being able to abuse that money and end up in private pockets on behalf of the commissions of those who participated in the procurement process. It is a system of functioning and units of local self-government and autonomous province and the Republic. Like I said, your amendment doesn't fit the legal system. He's theoretically possible, but legally to carry him out, that's impossible. Do not mix responsibilities between the Republic, public enterprises where the Republic is the founder, autonomous province, public enterprises where the autonomous province is the founder and unit of local self-government and public enterprises where it is the founder of units of local self-government. It's not the same. Don't mix grandmothers and frogs. When we said that public procurement is realised by two billion and 700m euros, if you review our budget, we do not have those two billion and 700m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are all public procurements that everyone has done in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and these funds are not all from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is expected, when the law is settled, that around two billion euros of money will appear which will be used in public procurement, but which has so far been spent outside the public procurement system. Simply, the law on public procurement has been avoided and has not been applied. That's why you have a report from the state auditor that he found, it seems to me, 129 or some of those entities that did the procurement procedure, that 45 billion dinars were spent without being in accordance with the Public Procurement Act or that they didn't enter the Public Procurement Act at all. When you get rid of some of these amendments and such populist-political moves, you have to look at absolutely the entire legislation of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9844	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9845	If DS thinks we're naive to accept this amendment, then they're wrong. I'll show you on one case, just a little later, how to save and how the City of Belgrade wastes its resources in just one tender. So, no public enterprise in Belgrade, or in Novi Sad where you were, has done any positive business. All public enterprises, wherever you were directors, were negative. For these reasons alone, the City of Belgrade has called a tender to buy 400 buses. In this tender, our domestic companies could not participate just because the conditions of the tender were such that they could not participate. The price difference is 100,000 euros per unit of train.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9846	Mr. Toskovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9847	With 400 buses, that's 40 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9848	Mr. Toskovic, I warned you, get back on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9849	That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9850	It's not a theme. Look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9851	Is that some 40 million savings? This kid over there, he's clibrating, I don't think he's entitled to talk about it because he hasn't even started a working relationship yet, so he doesn't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9852	Please, Mr Toskovic, let us respect all the dignity of the National Assembly and take care of the address of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9853	I accept, but, Chairman, warn him not to act the way he does. So that's 40 million just the City of Belgrade, and where are the public enterprises that have each certainly 150 to 200 million purchases over the year? It is the savings, so that the budget of the City of Belgrade does not transfer funds to public enterprises and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9854	Thank you. You're reporting from the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9855	Since the D.S. is mentioned in a completely inappropriate context. Not every MP who doesn't have gray hair without a job internship. It's not right for you to say that, but you're still the feather of a radical detekinar. You know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9856	Mr. Stefanovic, I would ask you to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9857	All right. As for the bus, check with your council group in the City of Belgrade, you may not be taking steps with the events. Third thing, we're not saying anything about savings, you're all right, we're following exactly what you promised and we're asking to measure in a clear legal way how the funds, where and who to go to. You reject it stubbornly. Since we believe that such savings are possible, it's nothing controversial, we're just asking that that money be painted and that it's known where it's going, and you're giving us lectures. Mr. Arsic has three answers that spin all day round, with all due respect. Please don't. Tell us nicely – we won't, but don't tell us things like this here. It's a simple thing, do you want to apply or do you not want to apply the Budget System Act? You're now saying what we Minister Dinkic talked about all day when he was here -- how it's not all the same, Mr Dinkic, and you're telling us the same thing now. You need to make a deal with yourself, that's what I keep asking you. Think about it before using this type of qualification to DS, which gives a constructive amendment. Why is the amendment invaluable? Didn't Mladjan Dinkic take all the funding in this country into his own hands? So you agree with me, Mr. Arsic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9858	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've experienced everything here in the Assembly, even if some have said that we who explain the laws don't even know the Virman's order to fill out, so you talked about how it's all the same here when it comes to the Bill on the Budget System and quoted the minister, and nobody told me if you knew how to run the budget, analyticalally and synthetically. To answer me and what is a consolidated account of the vault, and what is not, what affects the country's liquidity and how public payments are made through that consolidated account? Then we can talk about whether we won't accept or can't accept your amendment, and between me and you, I can't and I can't do the same thing, but that's two words that have a fundamental difference. So we keep telling you, it's impossible to translate this into life, materialize, so we don't cause any serious dysfunction in the functioning and legal system of the state. I have listed to you a number of laws that must adapt to your amendment, regardless of how you as a political party, here we are protecting you, not to suffer the political consequences of such an amendment by refusing to accept it. Because go and explain to the interior of Serbia how you think it is their poor woman that saves what their leaders are spilling over here in Belgrade. Explain that to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9860	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9861	I think we need to get one thing straight first. Mr. Arsic, you're a professor, we're your students. That's what you've now presented to us here. We failed your exam. We will always fail your exam, you understand. So you're pulling out a very professional terminology and asking us, your students, if we know the answer to that. That's not correct. Why did the Legislative Committee say the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, and now you say it's not? Answer that. Or do they know better than you and the justice system, or do they not? So that's the number one dilemma you didn't answer. We're just trying to tell you that if this thing is wanted and willed, it can be done. That citizens who need those funds that are threatened by social groups in the state of Serbia will receive money that will be clear from these purchases. Then you say, explain these to the locals. You explain to them why you brought this budget. What first did Mladjan Dinkic transfer funds and eliminate the possibility of using these funds? Then he says -- there was a deficit during the last government. He's removing parafiscal charges, on the one hand, and on the other hand he's taking their money from the bar. Your mayors can't take it. If you ask who doesn't know the Virman to write, ask your parents about Novi Sad and other local self-governments. They can't schedule one project, they can't write. They don't know what to do with it. If you already have a school and you're giving examples, call your parents first to come to class, Mr. Arsic. If someone gets ahead of you, since your entire council group got arrested in Vranj, we're gonna have to be in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9862	Mr. Mitrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9863	I'm sure and I know for a fact, I've read the DS program and that a significant part of that programme contains serious principles and serious provisions on decentralisation. I'm sure none of our colleagues, distinguished colleagues from the DS, will deny it. But we in the URS today cannot support even in the day to vote this amendment, first because this amendment is affecting the question of decentralisation and insinuating the issue and drawing hands into urban and municipal budgets, as you said, of poor municipalities across Serbia. It's not allowed and it's not allowed for people to go to a bar, and you can be sure that people from your city and municipal boards will be against it, that some of the money they save at the bar is poured into the Republic's register, so they'll beg the Republic to give them that money again. Last year, together with the votes of the DS and other parliamentary groups that made up the majority in this parliament, we passed a law on funding local self-government and after half a million signatures were collected, Serbian citizens fought together to get certain funds for cities and municipalities. How did one esteemed colleague say - who gives the budget to municipalities and cities? Nobody gives them a budget, that's their money. Mr. Arsic explained nicely how local administrations are financed. I wouldn't say it again, but first of all, from the income tax that was made on the territory of that municipality or that city. Don't drag your hand into the budgets of poor cities and municipalities with this amendment. Last year we fought for it together, and now it's not good to do it. (President: Time. ) On the other hand, I understand your political need to in some way belittle this legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9864	Thank you, Mr. Mitrovica. Mr. Toskovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9865	Mr. Borko, I was a perian Radical at the Detelinar and in Novi Sad, but now I'm at the SNS Detelinar. I've been sitting here since you came to power in the '80s, because I've seen that we don't have a perspective. I'm stuck with some material and other pains. When it comes to savings in these tenders, it is not the 40 million that will save the city of Belgrade, but the problem is that four, five million will go into private hands. When all of this comes down to all of Serbia, it's 600 to billions of euros. Take care of this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9866	The following is the word of Parliamentwoman Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9867	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot support this amendment. The proposed Public Procurement Act will certainly bring certain savings. What's very important is that money won't be able to end up in private pockets anymore. We won't have privileged companies, we won't have companies set up just to participate in public procurement and as leeches spend and draw money from the budget, or the money of citizens. I want to save the ones that are created by applying this law to stay where they were made. I come from Vojvodina and the money saved in the AP Vojvodina should be there and it should remain and the citizens of Vojvodina should decide where it will be spent. We in Covin, where I come from, we also have pregnant women who don't have full pay, we have foster parents who need to increase compensation, we have poor pensioners, we have farmers who need to speed up their production. Unfortunately, we also have citizens living in villages where there is no asphalt road, locals living in villages without water, no industrial zone, etc. That's why investors visit us and the Covins have no business. We don't need our money to have anyone else. The blacksmiths, the Pancians, the Nisils, they know best what they need and how this money can be spent. They know it much better than someone sitting in Belgrade in a cabinet. We in Kovin have already burned ourselves, like other municipalities in Vojvodina. Almost all municipalities had to return the capital investment fund to the money they received under the Law on the financing of local self-government, in order to repay the debts of the Capital Investment Fund. That money wasn't taken from them by Mladjan Dinkic... (President: Mrs. Novkovic, I would like to ask you to return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... he gave them to municipalities, and Bojan Pajtic took them to cover the debts of the Capital Investment Fund. (President: Mrs. Novkovic, I ask you to return to the topic. I'm just saying, on behalf of the small municipalities - we don't give our money anymore. We want to decide for ourselves what to do with them. We know a lot more what we need. (President: Mrs. Novkovic, this is not the topic of the agenda at all. I ask you to follow the amendments. I just want to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9868	Don't explain something that has nothing to do with the subject. Mr. Nikolic, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9869	He's a member of 106. The Rules of Procedure - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. In fact, Mr. Stefanovic Borko here made one notorious lie, and it concerns one half-word, that the entire SNS parliamentary group in Vranj was deprived of liberty, arrested, whatever, for informing the public and the truth and what is disturbing all citizens of Serbia, and at this point the citizens of Vranj, with one fiction, which Mr. Stefanovic here said. I mean, former SNS committeeman Milos Mladenovic was brought in today for an information conversation in an action under way. Of course, I have to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9870	I'm really sorry, Mr. Nikolic, but I really have to take care of the agenda at the National Assembly session. Since you have asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 106, which is that the speaker does not speak about the subject of the agenda, do not abuse your right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, speaking of what is not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9871	Madam Chairman, I am merely responding to what Mr. MP, head of the DS Group, has brought here as a lie. This must be heard, that this high house finds out and that all Serbian citizens know that a slap has been struck.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9872	I'm just saying, in that case, he was supposed to be looking for the head of the parliamentary group or the deputy head of the parliamentary group. I would very much like to let him replicate Mr. Stefanovic's exposure. I ask all MPs to bring an end to this item of the agenda, to start talking about the subject and to respect all the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm asking you all very nicely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9873	Of course, I'm not doing this because I want to stop working in the Assembly, because I want to delay working on amendments, it's obviously the wish of DS, of course not the SNS, which is the proposing here of this law and which accepts only amendments that are absolutely acceptable and that are compatible with the law that we have proposed. But this is one untruth about the arrest of the entire council group...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9874	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9875	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9876	Let's move on. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9877	I want us to really try to clear this up. I publicly apologize to both you and the citizens of Vranja and the SNS committee group, because in the heat of the presentation, I said she was arrested as a whole. She's not under arrest. Secondly, I was doing it to sort of go out to the Socialist Party, which for some reason is not to engage in a discussion of a local problem, which you know is really deep and exists in Vranje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9878	Thank you. In order, Mr. Stefanovic, won't you speak? No, I don't. All right. Next reported is Janko Radakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9879	Your Honor, I asked for a word 15 minutes ago, since I was mentioned. It doesn't matter. I'll do it for a while. I'm an ignorant MP, Mr. Toskovic, I don't know anything, it's all fine, but come on, my work book and your president's work book, which is 10 years older than me, let's see who's got years of work experience? I'll apologize and resign if there's more work than I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9880	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9881	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS has only asked for one thing, to tell us what the numerical effects of this law are, and not to trust you on—our mothers, my word, here's how much it will be. Trust us, since we haven't seen our diploma, we don't believe our word of honor anymore. So, I need to get you...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9882	Mr. Milivoevich, please discuss the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9883	Here, again, I underline the topic of the agenda – where are 600m euros in savings, which will show which position in the budget? I think it's a very good topic of the agenda, and I'm asking one question here. You know, when we ask you a question, we want to hear the answer to that question, not tell us what you know. Last night, Mrs Gorica Mojovic quoted Nusic as saying. There's a guy named Sima Gluvac in Heiducci's book, and when they ask him about history, he's a geography guy. You know, leave the comedy for the theater.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9884	The theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9885	Here I would like concrete answers to specific questions. Why don't we take your word for it? We remember how you left the budget when you were wearing badges on the lapel, and they forgot neither the citizens of Serbia nor us. That's why, because of that memory, because of these numerical indicators, because of these facts, because of that state in the budget, because of the unpaid 27 pensions of the pensioners, when you took over last time, and when you left the blank register, we don't trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9886	Mr. Milivojevic, for the last time, I'm warning you to talk about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9887	I'm sorry, we want an answer to where 600 million are going, to show us in numerical parameters. I have one more question, did you replace Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic? There were 600m euros in savings, a billion euros in savings, and in the end you said there would be two billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9888	Mr. Milivoevich, I am obliged to give you a warning, since I have warned you twice. The warning has been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9889	So you said there would be two billion euros in budget savings at the end of your discussion. Madam Chairman, please take care of what I'm saying, don't interrupt me, because it's really not correct. So, please tell me, where will be the savings of 600m euros in the budget, in numerical parameters, not to trust you on -- mothers, a word of honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9890	Thank you. The next word has been reported, MP Srdjan Shain. Here you go. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9891	I think they've been injured by both the 27th and the 109th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because during Mr Milivojevic's discussion, I believe that you did not let him finish thinking first, because his whole discussion was about to explain the amendment and to ask, see, where will 600 or a million, or this size – the amount that is supposed to be saved, where will it end? It's normal for him to explain the reasons for the amendment. Just because he gave the reasons for the amendment, you gave him a warning. I believe that if this way continues to be run by the National Assembly, that we are not going in the direction of a democratic debate at all, but this, not to use a strong word, practically, turns out that the chairman of the Assembly can simply interrupt discussions that do not correspond to the chairman. Not one moment, Mr. Milivojevic, has gone off topic. I don't think it's possible for a volunteer to interpret Article 109 whether or not it's on the agenda. The whole argument was, which is why we need to see where that 600 million or one dinar goes, or 500 dinars, or what number? That is the essence of the amendment and nothing has gone beyond that amendment. You've interrupted him several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9892	Time, Mr. Mikovic. Thank you. I don't think I've violated Article 27 or Article 109. I don't feel like you that Mr. Milivojevic spoke on the subject. If you don't believe me, look at the stenographic notes, you'll be able to see for yourself. I've warned him twice, I think, or even three times, that Mr. Nikolic should talk about the subject. After that, I gave him a warning, therefore, in accordance with Article 109. Rules of Procedure. You, if you think you should vote on it in the voting day, you plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9893	I think that's definitely what the Assembly needs to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9894	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. We're moving on. Next reported is Mr. Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9895	We have one problem with understanding who is being saved, what is Serbia, what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one from the SNS from the parliamentary club said that we are saving in the government of the Republic of Serbia or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has been said that they will save that they are created by this law to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to all those who are full of the budget, and then if they are being spared, if they are being saved, then you can't do that well, which the SNS and this parliamentary group and I, as a member of this parliamentary group, are working in the interests of all citizens, that we present this well-being now, and that we are threatening it to do so exclusively so that someone today has more power, so that with more money, they can use more money. Chairman, I'm going to try on a plastic case to present what that means, because I'm talking about the interest of the citizens in the environment that I come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9896	You can only give a plastic example if it's within the theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9897	It's part of the subject. This means practically that a pool built in the municipality of Kovačica in public procurement will no longer cost a billion, but will cost much less, and these funds remain in the budget that the municipality of Kovačica manages them in the way that the committees consider it best. What I think you have a problem with, that's the problem with the AP Vojvodina Assembly. You have no agreement at all to cut the budget of the AP Vojvodina Assembly by as much funds as savings are made, so that these funds are poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So if that's what we're doing, then we're getting into the fundamental rights of the Duke in this budget to reduce their guaranteed 7%, and in that sense we need to understand that our view is that those who make money, those who have money left behind, to manage it and to save them should stay. It's a very simple thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9898	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I answer the question of what will happen to the money saved by this law, I can tell you where the money from those savings won't end. He won't end up with your party friends anymore, he won't end up with your party sponsors... (President: Mr. Arsic, please, let's talk about the subject. I answer the question of several MPs. ... He will no longer end up with ministers involved in affairs, he will no longer end up in the Agrobank affair, he will no longer end up in the Development Fund affair... (President: Mr. Arsic, second warning. )......................................................................................................... Vojvodina Development Banks, rather than end up, unfortunately, paying off the debts you left, and one part, thank God, for agriculture, for pregnant women and social programs. And I know you're sorry that you won't have the money because you showed how well you can handle it, but for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9900	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Since I've warned you twice and you haven't come back on the subject, I give you a warning. The next word came from MP Ljuban Panic. Excuse me, MP Zoran Babic wanted a replica. Is that right? (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9902	I'm sorry, but you have to wait because I have a list in front of me. Excuse me, please. National MP Ljuban Panic is the first and then Vučeta Toskovic. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9903	Chairman, I'm advertising Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because I answered the questions asked by MP Borko Stefanovic and MP Milivojevic in my presentation. That's why I'm asking in advance that in Parliament's voting day I be told if there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure on my part. (Predrag Marković, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9904	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9905	Article 27. We have to take care of it, please. Who are the promoters and who are the promoters? I don't mind, let the two parties exchange political messages as much as they will, but I also remind you once again as a member of the committee who has allowed this amendment to be found, to hear political messages, although we have clearly received the information that the amendment is on the agenda that this money, which is obtained through the possible savings of this law, is going somewhere. Basic constitutional law, can't go, can't give. The people of Rakovica, if they save themselves by this or by any law, their means... (President: Mr. Markovic, since you said I violated article 27. Rules of Procedure, you have the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not to replicate the previous speaker. ) I do not rephrase to anyone, but I explain to the same Rules of Procedure why, as a member of the Committee, I have allowed this amendment to be discussed. So, once again, what's not stolen stays in Rakovica. What is not stolen remains in Belgrade. He can't go to the Republic Government or he can't go to the budget. No one stands for it, and that's not possible under our legal system, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9906	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since you didn't explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated it, I'm going to take time from the MP's group for what you've been saying these two minutes. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9907	I have one thing to say. So, Mr. Arsic directly mentioned me and mentioned directly DS in the worst possible context, which is expected of the SNS. So there's nothing to add, that's the legitimate position of the majority party. But I think you, too, the chairman, were wrong to punish Mr. Arsic and let him get so upset that he had to get out of the O.R. He presented a completely legitimate position of the SNS, which was fully expected and acceptable to us. I have to use this replica to tell you that in some way you went too far and overly punished a man who kept trying to, using two arguments to solve this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9908	Mr. Stefanovic, you've been given the word to replicate Mr. Arsic, not to me, please. Thank you. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9909	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, would support this amendment. I'm not going to talk about this law for as long as in principle. This amendment and its acceptance or non-acceptance will define my vote for this law. It is, in fact, the formation of a single instrument of the budget fund to monitor how these savings will be used from public procurement, which was designed in a pre-election campaign by the ruling party to 600m euros, and it is important precisely because we have heard here a criticism from the ruling party that I absolutely agree with, that it is very dangerous to use populist political methods for politics. To divulge whether or not it is populism depends on the motivation of our citizens to believe in us as MPs and institution of the Government, President of the Republic, etc. is how many pre-election promises he has fulfilled in his term, how much we have made for these citizens... (President: Mr. Panic, come back on the subject, please. I'll be back on the subject. I'm sorry, two more sentences. So, the government's and Serbian Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's promise from the campaign that the public procurement money will be invested in the employment of young people and a higher budget for science and technology. By accepting this amendment, we might be able to track whether that money is being invested in it. If this amendment is not accepted and we do not have both money, we will not know whether the current Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, is promising this, has been used by populist political methods and then many projects of this government can come under suspicion, and I want to believe as a MP that all the projects you have promised will be fulfilled and that perhaps next year, instead of these five billion, which are not available this year, we will have 15 billion euros of investment next year. I hope that the construction of the Aegean canal will begin and that the president will once again return not only to the tried-out brandy, but... (President: Mr. Panic, please return to the topic. ) I hope that we will all be pleased, and we who have submitted this amendment and you who have accepted it, if you accept it by the fact that 600m euros in accordance with Prime Minister Vukic's promise went to young people from public procurement. Thank you. (Zoran Babic: A breach of the Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9910	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9911	Madam Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 109. Please have the same archaic for everyone. If you have fined Parliamentarian Veroljub Arsic, head of the SNS parliamentary group and the author of the Public Procurement Act for no reason, keep the same criterion when some colleagues here also spoke about the working position of the President of Parliament, which has nothing to do with the proposal for a law on public procurement and for a colleague who mentioned the Aegean Channel and for someone who is troubled by the fact that the president of Serbia is hosting from Šumadia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9912	I don't think I've violated Article 109. Rules of Procedure, we've talked about this before, because I'm trying really hard to have the same archaic for everyone, because before Mr. Arsic, I've said a warning, it seems to me to be one of the MPs of DS, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. So I think I have the same archaic for all the MPs. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic, a replica. Just a little bit, Mr. Panic, since Mr. Babic came forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I can't give you the right to the replica now. I'm sorry. Let's move on. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9913	I would apologize to a young MP from the DS, not knowing that he had a job internship and that he was working, but I can warn him that he has a very short period of work, so he may not have encountered such problems as he has now encountered in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9914	Mr. Toskovic, I must warn you that you have been given the word to speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9915	This was a replica, I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9916	I asked you earlier if it was about the amendment, about whether or not you mentioned I gave you the right to the replica. We have to move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9917	I'm mentioned by name and last name, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9918	I'm really sorry, I didn't follow, if I was wrong, I apologize. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think decentralisation is a common denominator for almost all parliamentary groups in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. The country's even development is also common in all party programmes on Serbia's political scene. However, there he would fully agree with counterpart Arsic and counterpart Markovic, who said the funds saved and collected, at the bar, should remain at the place. Decentralization can't be declared by staying a dead letter on paper. decentralisation must be essential, it must be financial. The money collected at the bar should remain at the bar, people who run local communities or units of local self-government, spending that money in the interest of citizens living in these municipalities and cities. That is why I would like to hear the proposings of this amendment coming from different parts of Serbia, some of my neighbours from Kruševac, from Kraljev, from Cačka, to say – that we advocate that our budgets are smaller and that those funds are spent by someone in Belgrade. I would like them to go out on their local media, go out among their citizens and say – we want less money in these local self-governments. I don't expect and I was saying that, and when we discussed the Law on Public Procurement and in principle, I don't expect the promoters of this amendment to believe us. It is enough for us to believe and fight for it, to be trusted by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we see it from the latest public opinion polls that this percentage of trust is more than 40%. However, as the SNS saves and saves the government of the Republic of Serbia, it also shows a contract that was concluded today for the construction of the Moravian corridor. For the highway that will connect Pojate and Preljina, a contract costing 4.72m euros per km was created. A full profile, a new highway, six lanes, unlike the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard in Belgrade, whose construction cost 17m euros two and a half kilometres. These are the savings that are measurable, which is sevenm euros where it went in a magical way. It's something that should have remained for the people of Belgrade, as the Chacans should remain for what is gathered in Chačka, not for such an amendment that looks naked. Just, let's measure all of that. That we're like kids to play, no, we're serious people. Based on this law on public procurement, based on the functioning of this government of the Republic of Serbia, only today are more citizens left, hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9920	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9921	Madam Chairman, I thought I was right after Vuceta Toskovic, but no problem. I welcome the proposal of this amendment, the intention of creating savings and forming a budget in which the savings will be pooled. In a way, I was positively surprised. They stopped thinking about their leaders and their leaders' wallets and started thinking with their heads, even if it looked like it at first sight. But... Can you seduce a little order in this undisciplined group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9922	I ask the People's MPs that we can listen to the speech, and Mr. Risticevic, I ask you to discuss the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9923	As I recall the topic of the agenda is saving and budgeting, that's what they suggested. That's my intention, and I said hello to them for stopping thinking with their wallet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9924	I ask all MPs to allow me to hear the speaker, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9925	I welcomed that intention to stop thinking with the wallet of their leaders, and they had already begun to think with their heads, hearts, and souls. If that's the case, I say hello. They wonder where that savings will go? They should have asked us that when we adopted the budget and how much I remember, and they can remember that well, the budget deficit was halved for next year. These savings planned in public procurement, the Law on Public Enterprises, by seducing discipline in these areas, will certainly reduce the deficit. The deficit was close to 250 billion, thanks to these savings he will be halved. What's the result of those savings? We're not going to make a kilometer of one million euros if it's really worth 500,000. Instead of a mile, there'll be two. In local self-governments, cities and savings will be poured into an increased number of kilometers of waterways, in an increased number of kilometers of sewage, in an increased number of kilometers of gasification, etc. The savings will be felt by citizens through public procurement, by extending the mileage of infrastructure in the territory of local self-government, cities, provinces and republics. We will not do what they did and more on public procurement will not competitors instead ask because it is, they can only ask why. I believe they were transparent, but these savings will certainly feel. Where the money will go further, local self-government will decide, etc., as part of this amendment. They've already shown how they've been saving. In India, instead of a business space to pay 2m euros, they paid 4.5m euros. The directors who didn't want to do it, they replaced. So, such savings, and both of your people, who are in a dispute over it, we're going to make such savings by not buying 2,000 square meters of business space, we're going to buy 4,000 squares of business space. We're not going to buy it in a building that doesn't have a building permit, which doesn't have a license, in which the president of the municipality gets an apartment, but we're going to buy it in regular business areas at significantly lower prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9926	Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9927	So it's going to be savings, an increase in the number of squares of the business space the municipalities are going to get, instead of pouring money into private pockets. I'm not going to argue about who hasn't sweated here, I can see it well, and who hasn't drunk the sweat of water, but I'm saying that the result of all that we're correcting...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9928	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9929	I'll be right back. These are savings due to the Law on Public Enterprises and this Public Procurement Act. Because of these savings, the people will no longer be animals, but will live a little. A small number of people enjoyed it, and a large number of animals. One more thing. You did share with the people good and evil, but you took good for yourselves, and you left evil for the people. We don't want to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9930	I have to realize that this debate has exceeded all the frameworks of the agenda. I followed the whole time, it looks really ugly. I'm really asking you to respect the agenda. Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9931	Traditional reporting, as promised, Art. 106th and 107th. You can't, Mr. Chairman, and I'm glad you reacted twice, but please. We must try to preserve some civilizational level of debate. It's not enough to give a warning every 15 seconds and then the speaker finishes and gets away with it without warning. Our goal is for this man to receive a warning, because he deserves it because it is false. We're essentially okay with him talking as much as possible. I have this political problem. However, because of the Assembly, I ask you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9932	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9933	I use the time of the parliamentary group to support the amendment that my colleagues have submitted and which I support. I'll vote for him in voting day. The amendment is very simple. The promoter, with many different provisions, some good ones, some valid for repairs, some have remained uncorrected, as the reason for this law claims savings will be achieved. No one in the DS parliamentary group disputes even the right of the motion to see savings in the provisions of the law, nor a normal and on our part a supported desire to save and achieve them. That's why we make laws, to make changes for the better. The problem with the argument that only seems to be against, when the amendment is submitted, is what our amendment says, the reasoning of the provision, they say, will save 600m euros. That's what we want to believe. Anything we say, let's see, it's easy to prove, verifiable and measurable, that 600m euros are really saved. We don't argue that it can be 400m euros. Anyone from my parliamentary group, I could speak for each of us, will not say – you failed, you failed, but we will say – a step has been made, a great step, if 400 million visible, 200m euros, one step that preceded the proposal's idea today to pass this bill, leaned on the efforts of the previous ones. The efforts of the previous ones are based on the efforts of those before them. It's called state-of-the-art. What do we get in response to our consent to save the machine? We get an answer – the amendment does not comply with the Constitution. In the light of the amendments, it states that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. We get in response that this is a question of decentralisation, and the question of decentralisation is in no way governed by this law or by the savings that would be achieved. We also get a series of ways of communication that we don't consider appropriate for arguments about the law. Experience teaches us that whenever someone doesn't have an answer, then invent it or turn to ad-hominem, i.e. in disqualifying anyone who asks a question or who offers a different proposal. Both things have happened in this congregation. However it ends, whether you accept this amendment or not, there will be no argument to speak in favor. There will be savings, there will certainly be savings, because there will be more goods and more services, and that we all know that there is no way to provide evidence to the National Assembly, but only interpretations, as there is no anti-argument amendment that says – we agree, make savings, by the means of these funds we can talk now or at any time. It has nothing to do with decentralisation, it can only have to do with the Budgetary System Act, which we were against, and I will always vote against Article 12. The budget system law, which puts the finance minister in full autonomy, discreetly puts the whole budget in hand. That's why we're all gonna have a problem. I have no reason to be satisfied if the Minister of Energy has a problem that funds from the former Environment Fund cannot be solved, if the Minister of Youth and Sports has a problem, any minister. I have no reason as an opposition to my satisfaction, because the problem is that there is a Article 12. The budget system law has citizens who need to use these services. So, as it was at that time, the argument of the objection, that's what this case is all about. We want to believe that the savings will be made. We consider savings to be achieved. All we suggest to you, let's agree together that the level of these savings is measurable and that the purpose of saving is clear, that we don't stay at the interpretation, because the interpretation easily slips into the truth and into the interpretation of its will, and too often has more to do with its own perception of what savings are than verifiable and measurable facts, about how much money, at which good, at which level of public procurement is really saved in relation to the various figures we're hearing today. Personally, I have no emotional relationship with the fact that you do not want to adopt the amendment that my colleagues have proposed, but I have serious objections to what it is considered to be legitimate to insult people and every time you lose your arguments, every time you lose facts, you slip into disqualifications, in answering questions that no one has asked, and in the awareness that it will all go away because people will believe you, and some of the other MPs will not. People trust themselves and their own eyes. That's why it's good for them to see 600 million saved euros with their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9934	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9935	By amendment. Mr. Chairman, just two sentences on this amendment. I'm personally shocked by the lack of understanding of a member of this law. When the gentlemen asked the question of savings, what are they talking about, and the budget has already planned to reduce the deficit by double. One more sentence. I'm shocked at the level of discussion of certain economists and lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9936	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS is proposing another measurement. Two days ago, the DRI came out with data that the control of 122 companies on public procurement established irregularities of 47 billion dinars – 122 economic operators over four hundred million euros. Let's wait a year to apply this law on public procurement, let's let the DRI do its job under the law, so if it comes out and says there was no irregularities, here's the savings. If there was an irregularity, those responsible for such a thing will answer. On the other hand, the insistence of the amendment on the adoption of the amendment seems to me, at the very least, masochistic, as it has been saved, has been carefully saved. We will ask: Where has all the secretaries been all these years? Where'd that money end up all these years? Is 600 million, one billion or one million euros, where did the money end when the billmaker was responsible for politics in Serbia? Don't be masochists, let's wait for the DRI report in a year, so if it's 47 billion, as it is in a year in just 122 economic operators, then we'll say we failed. Change us, we'll move. But if that report is zero or minimal, then we'll go out and look you in the eye.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9938	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Stefanovic. He didn't insult you, he didn't mention you, he didn't insult the party, he didn't hurt anything, he only gave his opinion of the amendment, like you and you have no right to replication. I followed well, he didn't even mention the MP's group. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: As a Proposer of the Amendment. ) He has already explained his own and this can now be a replica. Gordana Komic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9939	Right on the line. National MP Zoran Babic spoke to me, commenting on my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9940	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9941	Then I'll use the time of the parliamentary group, how much is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9942	You can take a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9943	A minute, thank you. The auditor's report indicates infringements committed by economic operators. It's a violation because the law is flawed. You've come up with a new bill. Great. But every attempt to present the auditor's reports as the amount to be saved is the story of two different topics. The way the auditor is doing the reports we discussed together in the National Assembly is great, and that's why I voted in favour of the Auditor's Law, so I signed it. Now, when I tell you that this is how I advocate the amendment, it's of common interest, as is the DRI Act, which I wrote and entered into the Assembly together to other colleagues. Vote for a 600m-euro fund, that's good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9944	On what basis, Mr. Guric? By amendment, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9945	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Please, Mr. Arsenović, bring some order into this assembly. This looks worse than this children's celebration that lasted a few hours. There was a lot of joy and joy, normality. What does this debate look like today? It's another day and a half until the end of the regular session. We still have a lot of work ahead of us, we have a debate on over 200m euros in debts, and you allow the session to work this way. Not just you, but your presidents. Today we had all kinds of things - falsification of the views of authorised promoters, discussion of one hundred and thirty eights, one thirty-seven, warnings that are made, do not say, half the vote, debate on the number of years of work. I apologize to Mr Babić's claim that DRI presented data compared to 122 economic operators, the DRI controls not only inmate entities but also state authorities. Most of her remarks refer to the work of the state authorities. Those remarks made by DRI remain today. They will also be in 2013 because they do not apply to the Public Procurement Act. If you're quoting the DRI report, please don't miss the quote and the part that says there's no "Serbiagas" report at this point. For "Serbiagas" and for public procurement and for the functioning of "Serbiagas". [[President: Do not switch to replica, please.]] Please allow this session to end normally and to continue to work normally. Each one of the MPs can act like he's talking about himself, but don't make the rest of us take part in that circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9946	Mr. Guric, I appreciate your suggestions and I will try to bring this session to an end. Gordana Komic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9947	If you give me your word, I'd love to, but I didn't ask for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9948	You've been reported to the system. Mr. Risticevic, on what grounds? A businessman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9949	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other people’s MP and to use offensive expressions. The previous speaker here said this looks worse than a children's show. The children's performance that was here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was very beautiful. It is very offensive to say something about a play involving children, employees and MPs in the assignment of packages and to call it some bad events, and then compare this Assembly and say – this is even worse than it was a children's show. It's not my fault that the MPs go there, they're gone for five, six hours, and all of a sudden, they come in here, they come in here, they get caught hurting the Rules of Procedure, and then they mix up grandmothers and frogs. But it's extremely convincing for this National Assembly that organized the assignment of packages, to say that this assignment and this event were very bad. I don't agree with that, and I think it's very offensive for both the National Assembly and the parents and the little ones who took part in the event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9950	I've taken his adjudication of the Rules of Procedure as symbolism, and I think it's time to bring this assembly to an end with dignity and end the debate under this law. I didn't realize Mr. Djuric wanted to hurt, he used one symbolism. If he had that goal, let him have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9951	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9952	Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9953	Articles 27 and 106. Don't finish talking about me by saying something's going on with my soul. I think I made myself very clear. I can explain it one more time. I said that the show was wonderful, and that what is happening in this House is unworthy of parliament. Children who are 6, 7 or 8 are just about to get overjoyed and infancy sometimes, so they're incompetent. People's MPs have no right. I didn't insult the assembly. I don't mind democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9954	Mr. Djuric, it's more like a replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9955	I'm talking about how offensive you treated me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9956	I didn't insult you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9957	You were putting something on my soul. Before that, you did not respond to Mr. Risticevic's presentation that he said I went into this meeting. I'll come to this assembly when it makes sense to work. This isn't a dragster. I told one other MP at night yesterday not to be buried, let alone to speak of such important laws until two, three or four in the morning. I don't mind democracy. I think that Baldrek should be an MP in democracy, too, if that's what the citizens decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9958	The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic to Article 169. A representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 175 of the amendment have been tabled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Please be quiet. Parliamentarians Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Milan Lapčević submitted together to Article 175 of the amendment. A representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radaković and Bozidar Djelic. A representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9959	Mr. Chairman, we have submitted an amendment to Article 178 that this law enters into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, not as it stands on 1 April 2013. I'm sorry that Mr. Arsic got angry and got out of the O.R. So I can't let him accept this amendment. We've been talking about the Public Procurement Act for two days now, one of the most important laws, and this law won't wait for you to stay in power, because you know there will be new elections before April 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9960	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 178 of the amendment have been tabled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Annex 1 – The subject of public debate was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Appendix 2. - The subject of public procurement by the Board of Joint Affairs B service amendment has been submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break, and we're working on it at 5:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Development Fund of the AUTONOMAL END OF THE VOYVODINE. I'd like to inform you that I'm in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the search in detail of the Bill on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, item 2 of the agenda, beside the representatives of the promoter Istvan Pastor, the president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Zoran Radomana, the Regional Secretary for Finance, also called for the sitting to be attended by Milorad Gasic, the secretary of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Žika Gojković, Ružica Igić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Jovan Palalić, Milan Lapčević, Momo Colaković, Srdjan Šin, Zoran Kasalović, Jelena Travar Miljevic, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic, Jožef Shandor, Vesna Kovac, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the opinion of the AP Vojvodina Assembly on the amendments submitted. You have received the Government's opinion on amendments to the MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The assembly of AP Vojvodina, the government and the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina did not accept the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9962	Mr. President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM MPs in the circuit assembly voted in favour of the draft law on the Vojvodina Development Fund in principle and for certain amendments. Here we have in principle announced our support for this bill. However, some amendments have arrived, especially an amendment that, if accepted, makes this bill unacceptable. What's this about? My colleague Vesna Kovac has submitted an amendment to one of the members of the bill, whose essence I will try to present, and later I will also make arguments as to why this amendment is completely unacceptable to us. So, the fact is that the Vojvodina Development Fund will have two founders, the Republic, or the province. The majority founder will be the province. The fact is that the draft law states in certain provisions that these two founders will manage the Vojvodina Development Fund in proportion to their ownership participation. However, this amendment, which we are now discussing, is fundamentally changing the whole concept of the law, and to some extent the powers, or rights of the majority founder, are being demoted, by the AP Vojvodina. What's this about? It is that this amendment proposes that certain decisions taken by the Authority of the Development Fund establish a consensual decision-making method. Therefore, the right to veto the minority founder i.e. The Republic of Serbia, in relation to some issues that may not be problematic. For example, when the Development Fund ceases to work, it would be logical for both founders to have the right to veto, but there are some issues where this is absolutely unacceptable. As for the adoption of the annual work programme of the Development Fund, the adoption of the Development Fund's business plan and the adoption of the Development Fund's report through consensus, I don't think it can be acceptable. What's the problem with all this? The problem is, it's a circuit institution. If we accept this as a fact, then it should not be acceptable for anyone to have the Republic veto against this institution in relation to these issues that I have spoken of. I think this is in complete collegiation with the principle of decentralisation. I do not see an argument that would be acceptable and that could in one acceptable way or through which it would be possible, in one acceptable way, explain how, in accordance with the principle of decentralisation in a provinceal institution, the Republic has a veto on very important issues. I think this is about a hidden intention, which is that in this case it's about the ministry, or the finance minister, one intention that tells us that the finance minister wants to have virtually complete control over the work of this fund. If we know that the Regional Development Fund will have great resources, that it will allocate loans, I can imagine how this will all work in practice. Without the consent of the finance minister, it will not be possible to grant any credit to any applicant. From the experience we have with the Ministry of Finance, I don't think this conclusion is exaggerating. On the other hand, I think there's another problem, and that's the legitimacy problem behind this aspiration. Namely, if someone participates in elections for the province's assembly and wins 3.8% of the vote, then it should not predicate to one such possibility, to be able to veto all important issues brought to the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. This amendment, I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you will allow me to talk a little bit about another amendment since they are extremely connected. There is another amendment to Article 7. A bill of law submitted by the Government. The essence of the amendment is to exclude the possibility that the work of the Vojvodina Development Fund will be financed and the Republic. I think it is very difficult to find an explanation – how it can be acceptable that the Republic does not want to finance the Vojvodina Development Fund, and on the other hand it intends to have full control over the decisions made in the Vojvodina Development Fund. In light of this second amendment, which excludes funding from the Republic budget, it is said that this is proposed for the reason that it is not further compensated by the adequate control participation of the Republic in the management of the Fund. Therefore, there is no adequate compensation for the Republic in the management of the Fund. That is why it is proposed to exclude the possibility of this fund being financed from the Republic budget. This second amendment, or the first amendment that I was talking about, if compensation is not enough and is not high enough level of control participation in the management of the Development Fund, then I don't know what that could be. On the other hand, I talked about this in the principle of this amendment, which excludes the possibility of funding the work of the Fund from the Republic budget, is in contradiction with the reasoning of the bill. The bill states that the Republic of Serbia provides measures to encourage the development of underdeveloped areas. If the Republic of Serbia provides for the development of underdeveloped areas, such as the Vojvodina area, then with this explanation it is in full contradiction that the Republic of Serbia has no obligation to finance the work of this fund. If we add the first part of my presentation to everything I've been talking about, the part relating to Article 2. The bill, which I am sure will be adopted and will provide practically complete control by the finance minister over the work of this fund, then I do not know how these two amendments, i.e. this endeavor can be acceptable to any extent for those for whom decentralisation, or the autonomy of Vojvodina, is important. I want, in addition to everything I've talked about, to withdraw one parallel between the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic and the Proposal for a Law on the Vojvodina Development Fund. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Vojvodina Development Fund, contains one possibility that the Fund for the Development of the Republic does not have only one founder, therefore it does not only have the founders of the Republic, but if it is organised in the form of a shareholder society, that there are other shareholders, domestic and foreign persons. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia can, in addition to the Republic, have other founders. There is no provision in the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic which would provide those other founders with any form of veto management of the Development Fund of the Republic of Serbia. If a few weeks ago for this assembly and the assembly majority was acceptable to this solution, when we talk about the Republic Development Fund and the solution that, if there are more founders, the minority founder can in no case be entitled to veto, then I don't think there is any rational explanation or explanation why this would have been regulated in a different way than the Vojvodina Development Fund. I am sure that if someone defends this solution, they will talk about the need for control of the Vojvodina Development Fund because they are bad experiences with the Vojvodina Development Bank and it can serve as an argument to accept this amendment. I don't think that argument will either, and it can't be in place. In fact, the Republic had its own representative in "Arobanca" too, so the accumulated losses we know at what height. No mechanism can be good or can be a solution to eliminate the possibility of malfeasance, if people who are placed in some places intend to participate in some illegal actions. This argument cannot be accepted either. For all these reasons that I have stated, I would like to repeat once again, if this amendment is accepted, for the SVM, the Development Fund Act will be unacceptable at the end of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9963	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9964	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Pastor, in front of the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, I can express some regret that the representatives of the AP Vojvodina, as formal legislators of this document, or amendment, were not present even when we voted as the Committee on Acceptance in principle, nor when we voted on the details, or when we spoke about amendments. Since there is an agreement between the two governments, i.e. the Government of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we considered it necessary, given that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Industry were present, that we can make good quality decisions based on the proposed amendments and additions, or some solutions. So, on the basis of the amendments proposed by 23, we adopted nine, which you agreed on certain issues, and for some 14 and the Committee refused, and you, as the AP Assembly, disagreed. On the amendment to Article 3 now proposed by MP Vesna Kovac, the finance ministry agreed to adopt the amendment in this respect, but it is not on the list of amendments, nor where they were accepted, nor where they were not accepted. What is the subject of this amendment is exactly what the previous talker was talking about, and it concerns the decision-making of the Assembly of the Development Fund when the agreement of both founders is needed. We know that according to the agreement, the two governments are founders, the Republic of Serbia in the founding capital of 22% and 78% of the government of Vojvodina. We know that investment capital is 10 million, but also on the basis of amendments when we get to the number seven and eight, it's defined exactly that the practical availability of this budget is exclusively done by the AP Vojvodina. Article 3, which was the proposal of MP Vesna Kovac, which was adopted by the Committee, is defined precisely when this agreement is needed by the two founders. The Committee considered it necessary to adopt this amendment, for the simple reason that there are some decisions when you set up a fund, which is quite understandable, which is why certain partners who establish a particular business entity should agree, when they are already participating in the establishment of such a fund. These are cases where contracts on the establishment of the fund have been amended, then the increase and reduction of the underlying capital of the development fund, the termination of the work of the fund, the adoption of the annual work programme of the fund, the adoption of the business plan and the adoption of financial reports. We felt that these were the conditions under which simply two governments would never come into a situation to enter a dispute and therefore we considered it based on the Ministry of Finance's opinion and supported this amendment proposal. There is another amendment, when Article 7 comes, then I will report to you, where the AP Vojvodina has also pleaded not to accept the proposal, and the Ministry of Finance has given its consent and as a committee we have accepted. What we can do at this time is, at the very same time, to declare you as a proposing representative, or AP Vojvodina, accept that amendment or simply do not accept it. I hope that this document should at all benefit our joint co-operation in the future, both the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, and the AP Vojvodina Assembly and that all the laws that are formally-legally to be passed by this assembly are in co-operation with your representatives, with the Ministry of Economy, because we believe that this is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, not only the Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9965	Since several speakers have come forward by amendment, let me just say the order. First it goes Teodora Vlahović, then Milan Lapčević, Marijan Risticevic, Judita Popović, Srdjan Mikovic, and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9966	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, would now remind me of Mr Pastor's words in the presentation when we discussed this law in principle. He said some amendments bring the AP Vojvodina into a humiliating position. I think it's precisely this superfluous amendment that brings the province into a humiliating position. So, if the very fact that we're going from any association of funds, it was an AP Vojvodina and the Republic, it was a physical person, it was a person of another nature, if someone participates with assets 22 and someone with 78, you have to admit that it would be extremely difficult to find a case in which one who is a minority owner of something affects the most important issues equally, but not only equally, but also has the possibility that the most important documents and the most important act of the fund would lead to never being adopted, which means that the fund can't even work. If we look at the law in general, if we look at those amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and adopted at the same time by the Committee and the Proposer, which is that the Republic of Serbia will not continue to invest in this fund, there is only the possibility that only the Region will have. It is a real possibility that one day, and very soon, the province owns capital in that fund 98%, and the Republic is 2%, not to say it can be 0.2%, and with such a participation process it should decide on the most important issues. If relations were always correct, to say that these are important issues and will always be negotiated, however, we are aware daily and every new act of what we really want and how we want to destroy the autonomy of the AP Vojvodina. So on the one hand, we have a declaration that we are all for the autonomy of the province, but every act brings us new and new increasingly unpleasant surprises. Therefore, it is in fact necessary to remove one of these possibilities that a minority founder actually has a blackmailing relationship with a majority founder. I ask all of you, we all come from some local self-government, would you accept that some other local self-government where you invest money or the Republic or the province decides on the fate of what citizens in your midst are creating? We only heard a few hours earlier in the debate on the Law on Public Procurement that the most important means are decentralisation and that it is we who want to enable the province and our municipalities to decide on some means.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9967	Mrs. Theodore, please, your debate is going in the direction of a principled debate and please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9968	I'm talking about the amendment, and I'm not insulting anyone. This amendment actually makes it impossible. I'm going back to the amendment because I've never, I'm sorry, Vice President, but I'm really sticking to the subject and I haven't stopped talking at all about the importance and the damage that this bill can bring to this very amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9969	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9970	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure and I'm advertising Article 74 and Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that says, Section 2. - when proposals for legislation and amendments to the draft laws are discussed at the committee meeting, their applicants, or their authorised representatives, shall also be invited to the session. Article 7 speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. We had two meetings of the Committee on Development, Industry and Energy, which discussed at the previous session of the draft law, which is on the agenda in principle, and today, in particular, by amendments. There were no representatives present at any session of the Committee who were subject to this law, so today we have come to a very unpleasant situation to consider amendments to the Law on the Vojvodina Development Fund, without proposings, or proposing representatives, and have not spoken of the amendments. We have come to the situation that representatives of the Ministry of Finance accept or even propose their amendment, but we do not have representatives of the proposings, representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, since this law has been proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. It doesn't say the Ministry of Finance anywhere. None of the proposing representatives are present at the session, nor do we know whether the amendment is accepted, whether it is not accepted, for which reasons it is rejected and otherwise accepted. We even had a situation where we had the proposed amendment of the government, without having a representative who would say, yes, it is acceptable for us or not acceptable. I think it's disrespect for the board of directors, disrespect for the dignity of the National Assembly and all of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9971	I'm just going to respond to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I, as chairman, have contributed to anything to be hurt by the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing the committees in charge called the promoters. If they responded, I really don't know. But there is a proposal here, and I believe that it is possible for each amendment to comment on whether it accepts it, does not accept it, to give additional explanations, etc. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9972	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for the opportunity to take a few sentences against these procedural questions. First of all, I want to apologize to you, Mrs. Tomic and all the other members of the Assembly committee. We just weren't able today, I wasn't able to attend the Committee session because we started a session of the District Assembly today at 11.00 a.m., where we held our views on these amendments. When we ended this process, I practically signed the documents at the moment, and they started and I was practically a little behind it going to Belgrade, but unfortunately I wasn't able to make it in time. We couldn't do all this before because two days ago we had a debate here in principle. So, by the time the debate began in principle, there was an opportunity to invest amendments, and that number of amendments has been steadily increasing. We were simply able to make a decision today. We made that decision. Those documents have been delivered and I'd like you to respect this apology. It's not about underestimating relationships with me or anyone else towards this home, it's simply about physical inability to be in two places at once and to kind of connect and do it right. It's just that this esteemed home is now working at a fast pace and it just doesn't have enough time to wait for all those steps that are necessary to get anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9973	Thank you. Milan Lapčević has a word. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9974	Same as Article 74. Rules of Procedure. I fully respect your apology and understand it but I am also sure that you are not the only representative of the AP Vojvodina and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. There is certainly a regional finance secretary, there are his deputies or assistants or any of the other authorised representatives who could be present at the session, to explain the essence of the law and the possible acceptance of the amendment. I don't think that can be enough reason not to even be in the principle debate, when discussed on the Committee, not today in the amendments that no one is present from the proposing representatives. I believe it's not the intention to humiliate this house, but I think you've put us in an awkward position as representatives of the board that we don't know whether it's acceptable or not, and we're deciding something without your opinion, and you're the promoters. I mean, we're just procedurally in some uninvited situation that we don't know how to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9975	According to the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9976	Article 164. Rules of Procedure. This is what happened now actually shows how this congregation works, especially today, and in the past few days. Mr. Pastor has an understanding of what he calls work on a speedy procedure, but I must say that with these problems that Mr. Lapcevic spoke of that are a real problem, I am pleased that the Vojvodina authorities have been sitting down and pleading on the amendments addressed to this bill of law coming from you. I guess you didn't have to do that, Mr. Pastor. A completely different practice has been established here today. We have heard today from the President of this Parliament that consultations, or the formation of opinions on the amendments submitted, can also be done in the halls, in mutual consultations, that you do not have to do so in a formal manner. So, regardless of what is simply the problem that Mr Lapcevic was talking about, I think that the province's authorities simply showed a much higher level of respect for the National Assembly and kept its dignity than the parliamentary majority did this morning simply avoided, in such a way as to give an opinion on the regular submission of amendments by the MPs to the ruling majority and some opposition MPs to the public procurement bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9977	I would just like to remind the MPs of article 164 that you have advertised, the 2nd position says – if it is not the proposer of the law of the Government, the Government can deliver an opinion to the National Assembly on the amendments submitted. Therefore, it is not mandatory to attend, it can deliver an opinion. We've got the opinion and justification Mr. Pastor gave I think it's acceptable. According to the amendment, Marijan Rističević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9978	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of the MP who proposed these amendments, I consider the amendments to be of great quality and to have ennobled this law. Part of the amendment was also accepted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and part of the amendment was accepted by the Serbian government. I don't think anyone should have anything against the control prescribed by this amendment, therefore, that it is necessary and desirable regardless of who it is. Since the fund is actually a two-party fund, it's not just a fund for the development of the AP Vojvodina. It is made up of one part of the Republic, and on the other hand, the AP Vojvodina and they form a contract for the Vojvodina Development Fund. So normally to change the agreement between the parties to agree and the amendments if they are necessary, consent should be given to the two sides. With regard to increasing and reducing the core capital of the Development Fund, I also think it is a good thing that the promoter predicted both sides to be in agreement with this, given that some bad experiences with some other funds can occur with, say, the Vojvodine Development Bank. It wouldn't be good, let's say, if the capital fell below the basic capital, and for the increase, it wouldn't be good for the increase to be unfounded or to be the product of some suspicious transactions. Or to come up with doubts from both sides that this fund was complemented by some of the funds like it was at the Metals Bank, complemented by the resources of various groups, not to say prone to crime, but very suspicious groups that participated in the Metals Bank. Therefore, it is good that both parties have insight into the increase and reduction of the underlying capital. The end of the Development Fund, I also think that the amendment's proposer predicted it well, because both sides that make the contract take part in capital should agree to stop something from working. I particularly like the adoption of the annual work programme of the Development Fund because through this programme, both founders need to look at how these funds are planned, in which regions, in which cities, for which projects, are in line with the objectives of the Development Fund. By adopting a business plan of the Development Fund, it also fits into this programme. So anything planned by one side will be a common plan, therefore, accepted by both sides, and this will prevent possible quarrels and consequences that may occur, as they did, not to mention that bank and that other fund anymore. As for the adoption of the Financial Report of the Development Fund, I also think it's perfectly normal for both parties involved in this to be able to look at the financial reports, whether it's in line with the programme or with the plan, I don't see anything wrong with it. I see that the promoter did it very nicely, so he controlled it, so there will be no doubt about possible sticky fingers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9979	Laszlo Varga, on what grounds are you answering? Replica? What replica? Mr. Varga, I don't see a basis for replication. So he didn't mention you personally, he didn't mention your side, I don't see a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9980	I think he misread a fellow MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9981	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9982	I'd use MPs' time?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9983	Then you'll finally get the time of the parliamentary group after all the others. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9984	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's great that this law is now on the agenda right behind the Public Procurement Act that we discussed at the previous point. Both laws have one common line, which is that none of these laws are proposed by the government. However, unlike this law proposed by the Regional Assembly, where the government is not only considering the whole law, but also giving some amendments, and what is more considered by the amendments that the ruling coalition MPs mainly gave. The government, moreover, proposes that nine amendments to the 21st Article of the Law be adopted. Unlike the Public Procurement Act, where the government has not appeared anywhere, as an important controller, a participant, or in any way to declare the law. I note that it is a law where the proponent stressed that a benefit is expected from 600 billion euros to billion euros when the law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9985	Mrs. Judith, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9986	It is therefore very important to establish what has happened since the debate in principle to date, for example, that such an amendment to Article 3 of the law, which proposes the introduction of veto rights, is adopted, or proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So this is very important when you introduce this institute of veto rights, when managing and deciding, and in Articles 7 and 8, the same government is exempt from funding the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9987	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9988	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, in the past, about, a day and a half since the end of the debate in principle to this moment, we have experienced quite a significant amount of disappointment. You can say - disappointment is not a political category, and it is not a political category, but I also think that politics must be a minimum of respect and respect for one another. Since we feel the lack of that category, we have experienced disappointment with everything that has met us. We were convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that looking for a solution through the agreement of the two governments would be translated into a document, on which a group of people worked on one side and on the other for days and hours, some basis based on which we could look for a way out of this situation, which we have talked a lot about in the past few days. We were disappointed when we saw the tsunami of amendments compared to the joint proposal of the two governments. Last time I said, now I want to repeat -- the legality of these amendments cannot be challenged today, but I think that with the category of legitimacy there are serious problems. This cannot mean, however, that we go over these amendments today as if they were not invested, but I think that in this way everything we talked about in the previous days, which is – removing certain topics from the media space, introducing these topics into the institutions of the system and agreeing between the elements of the system institutions, looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9989	Mr. Pastor, please return to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9990	As far as this amendment is concerned, this amendment practically writes what the two governments agree on. This amendment is not a technical improvement in the two governments' solution, this amendment is practically hitting on something that is the basis of the agreement. What's the deal? It speaks of the establishment of a Development Fund based on the rules laid down in the Business Society Act, as a limited liability society, with the possibility of growing into a stock company. So today we're talking about a general act, a law, whose range of time today, we can't determine. It can take 10-15 years, the institution can grow into a stock society, have more founders, simply have to set rules, which will be applicable in the long term. With this amendment, the main problem is that it simply comes out of the principle that limited-responsibility societies function. In this way, in some ways, it wants to limit the business capacity of the majority founder of a limited liability society. We think this is unacceptable. The Assembly cannot support this amendment or support it. I think that, despite having a positive view of the government, this amendment should be reconsidered and not adopted. I think if this amendment is adopted by this esteemed home, then belief that between the elements of the system, there can be an agreement and that this agreement will be respected, falling into the water.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9991	Thank you. The word is Judita Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9992	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the circuit assembly, yes, you've noticed that well. There is one problem in Serbia and especially in these laws that are on the agenda today, very good things are seen. What's this about? This is where the methodology of communication is actually abandoned, and the right to a stronger one is introduced. So there was an agreement between the province and the republican government. So, certain conditions are in place. Certain things have been specified, which here in this House will be debated and a new law adopted, concerning the Vojvodina Development Fund. But what's going on? In fact, half of this law is changed by one party's unilateral will. What's that for? It's a real strong one. It's just that the other side doesn't have a chance to react to that. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown which side is stronger here. If you have a stronger right in such a two-sided legal business, in which case you no longer need to negotiate. Then you have no more illusions about who's actually going to win this deal and who's going to win it? It's, you'll let, if you're working on building a legal state, if you're really trying really hard to do that, I'm talking to, normally, the congregation majority, to respect the legal order, in which case you have a problem, because the right of a stronger one simply can't be part of the legal order.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9993	Thank you. The word is by amendment Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9994	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, I find the amendment not to be accepted. The fact is that everywhere in society, even in the constitution, in its practical decision-making, it is accepted that when there is a certain majority, decisions can be made. Is that a simple majority? Is that an absolute majority? Is that even a qualified majority? In any case, no consensus is required of us when we decide any law. I also think that if we're asking that there is absolutely a consensus in certain things, we don't put ourselves in a situation unless...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9995	Mr. Mikovic, there's an amendment debate here, and you're talking now about how we're going to get some consensus, how we're going to vote it, etc. Don't talk about it, change to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9996	Please don't count this on me in time because I'm going to give you an explanation. I was hoping the chairman of the assembly wouldn't have to explain why. So, exclusively from Article 1's point of view for the next decisions of the Fund Assembly, both founders need agreement. So, I'm talking about a consensus that requires the consent of both founders. If I've given you an explanation and if I've convinced you that I'm sticking to the subject, I ask you to take this time I've used to explain to you, not at the time of the parliamentary group, but now on and on. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, within a very short period of time, managed to meet within a day, day and pô, to respond to each amendment. It was mentioned that this amendment had not been answered. Yes, the answer to that amendment has arrived, and that's on the other side of the material under indent 3. So, absolutely, that's what it stands for. One more thing, the question why the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina could not give an answer to this amendment earlier or to the Committee's session, as referred to in Article 72. The Rules of Procedure, a call for a meeting of the Committee, shall be delivered in writing to the members of the Committee, the parliamentary groups and the Government, pointed out on the notice board at least three days before the date of the meeting of the Committee. It's an extremely short-term challenge. I have spoken here a million times and appealed to schedule meetings of the Assembly in some slightly longer time, to allow adequate preparation of the Committee's session and an adequate discussion of the tide itself. I'm going back to the very essence of the amendment. Here I am talking about the procedure for this amendment, regarding the plea to this amendment. In any case, if someone has 78% and someone has 22%, and that 22% can practically prevent the adoption of the Development Fund's business plan for, for example, the next period, what does that mean? This means blocking the fund's work and raising the question of protecting the interests of those who have 78% in the fund itself. The second thing, we're making future rules here, for a whole series of years and rules for everyone, for everyone who today, tomorrow, will be the founder, that is, in a certain part of the owner of the Development Fund. If we break these rules here, we question the possibility of further developing a principled relationship with everyone. We have been trying here to make sure that when a state has a certain participation in a bank, it has the right, for example, to nationalise that bank, or to take over that bank. When we pointed out that it was only necessary to limit it to control participation, where the state has a control stake, that it could be one basis why it would have the right to take over in such situations. It was accepted, the truth, after a certain effort by a number of MPs, above all from the opposition, to introduce such a thing. In that sense, that principle that was then accepted, why not accept here too? Anyway, if someone has 1%, 22% or 99%, each of the founders absolutely has an insight into everything. If there's a certain business problem anywhere or, God forbid, something worse, the whole state will know about it. And the Government of the Republic will know about it. Does the government have the possibility of reacting with other instruments? Normally there is an opportunity for other instruments to react if there is anything, but don't, unless there is a need for one principle that is present everywhere, a principle that is in line with the principles that have been accepted throughout Europe, in all developed countries, to trample that principle. It is precisely in the defense of this principle that I appeal to the Proposer of this amendment, since there is a goodwill of the legislator in Article 7 and in Article 8 in relation to meeting the views of the Government, that, with regard to this Article 3 itself, it does not insist on this amendment, because the state has sufficient instruments to respond to everything that is happening in the Development Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9997	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9998	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Pastor, I belonged to this group of MPs who thought Mr. Vice President was wrong when he interrupted the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, telling him not to talk about the amendment, because he was just talking about what is the essence of this amendment. In fact, he was talking about what it's fair to do, what it's not fair to do, what the deal is, what it is to cancel the deal that was reached at one point. By adopting this amendment by the board, by the government, but I hope not by the assembly majority in the voting day, we are making an extremely serious move because we are going to be in a position to get everything agreed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina into the water at the same time. With this amendment, our colleague Vesna Kovac proposed that the Republic of Serbia, in the People's Language, have a veto on decisions made in the future Vojvodina Development Fund. I agree that the Development Fund is set up together by the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. This in no way means that the Republic of Serbia will not have a way to control what is happening in that fund, but should also bear in mind that the AP Vojvodina participates with 78% and the Republic of Serbia with 22% in this fund. One of my colleagues said, it seems to me that Mrs Vlahovic, that in the future this proportion can be very different. It can really happen to us that tomorrow, the AP Vojvodina has 99%, and the Republic of Serbia 1% in this fund. Does this mean that one who has 1% can block the decision-making of one who has 99%, especially given another worrying fact, which is that an amendment to Article 7, which the Republic of Serbia has ceased to finance competences, namely the work of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, has been adopted. Somebody please explain to me how someone who doesn't finance someone's work, who has a minority package can block the work of any fund? That would really mean, I don't think Mr. Mikovic's example was too much, that we in this assembly have to make decisions together and by consensus, regardless of who has the majority, who has the minority, because we are all part of this assembly. If we're going to make decisions by consensus, maybe I'm ready to talk about it, but let's establish that principle everywhere. Otherwise, my MP group hasn't supported this law since the beginning. We consider it a compromise. My opinion differs from my parliamentary group. I was ready to vote for this bill when we voted on it, even though my parliamentary group disagreed with it. I was prepared because, not to lie, to be honest and to say, this law is the fruit of a coercion, the fruit of a compromise that had to be made, and the province's administration was brought before taking or leaving the situation. That was Hobson's choice. It's actually a choice in which there's only one option and that option is extremely unfavourable for whoever needs to make it. Although I was prepared to support this law, regardless of my parliamentary group being prepared for it, if this amendment is adopted, it will become absolutely impossible and hopefully, for colleagues from the DS that this law will become unacceptable, because in these two amendments, the amendment to Article 3 and Article 7, which this Assembly is likely to adopt, a law that we will adopt absolutely has nothing to do with what was agreed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It has nothing to do with that law that the Vojvodina Assembly sent us here for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u9999	As far as I'm concerned, Mrs. Kovac is ready to withdraw the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10000	This is about a positive intention, which is a division of the responsibilities of the Development Fund. In my opinion, the Republic of Serbia wanted to share responsibility in the development fund's work. Given this discussion I've been following closely, I'm going to withdraw this amendment. However, I would like to point out that in this case, the Republic of Serbia can at no time take responsibility for the work of the Development Fund, of course, can be proportionate to 28%. For everything that happens negatively, you'll have to be prepared in terms of which participation in capital is, that's how responsibility in the Development Fund is treated. So I withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10001	Thank you. I'm just asking you to do it in writing, so we can formally circle it. The word is Istvan Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10002	I want to thank you for your sentences and for your decision. I think you've made a significant contribution to making this situation more understandable and simple. I also have to say that we are not running away from responsibility, as far as the Development Fund's work is concerned. I don't think there's going to be any problems with the development fund, and I think the province and the Republic will be proud of this institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10003	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10004	After the absolutely correct decision of Vice-President Vesna Kovac, I am giving up the debate because the subject I would be discussing has been withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10005	The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10006	I quit, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10007	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The assembly of AP Vojvodina, the government and the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has set up an integral part of the bill. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10008	President-in-Office, the President-in-Office, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Pastor, representatives of the Government, honourable MPs, I thank the Assembly and Mr Pastor for recognising them in my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the PUPS Group, to contribute to one's work at the priorities of the future Vojvodina Development Fund. This is social entrepreneurship, and in this sense in 2013 we will prepare a social entrepreneurship law, and this is what enables us to regulate those issues in this law and to speed up the development of entrepreneurship, which will employ a large number of those who need to be employed in businesses and businesses in the coming years, who take care of those who need special needs or help. In that sense, I think it is very important and important that in the future programmes of the Vojvodina Development Fund, this sentence is found which we have submitted in the form of amendments. Our parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day and confirm it. Finally, let me say that I am particularly grateful to Mr Pastor for an extremely correct relationship with this House and with us MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10009	National MP Žika Gojkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly support Zika Gojkovic's amendment, which for some reason is not there, because this amendment defines the objectives for which we set up the Development Fund. I hope it'll be the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. After withdrawing this amendment from Mrs. Kovac, my hope has grown pale that it will be the Vojvodina Development Fund. I like the amendment that in point 2 it has put the development of agriculture and export-oriented food industries and point 4. the promotion of balanced regional development. I mean, Vojvodina as autonomy is made up of three regions, it's Srem, Banat and Baka. We already know from experience that Srem was neglected, where I live, and that's why I liked this amendment, this even regional development, that it doesn't happen that 60% of the funds go to Buck, and that there's only 10% left in Srem. As far as agricultural development is concerned, exports are oriented to food industries. These are primarily the first objectives of the two governments, both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. It is an orientation, and it is a programme of all the political parties that make up the government, and that is why I think this amendment, which sets out everything in Article 4, is very acceptable. That's why I recommend voting for him, which I will do myself in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10011	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Jovan Palalic and Milan Lapčević. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10012	Dear President, Mr. Pastor, we have proposed that after point 7, where the objectives of the Fund are listed, including encouraging even regional development, to add a position that reads – the Fund's resources will be allocated to entities from the territory of municipalities below the average of development, with the amount of funds being determined proportionally to the population of the municipality and vice versa, proportionately to the degree of development. It is widely known that there are huge differences in development throughout Serbia, as well as in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It is known that so far in the 10, 11 years that there was a Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina, 38% of the Fund's assets have been placed on the territory of the South Bank County. Over 18% were for the very territory of the city of Novi Sad. For the whole Banat, for both districts that have over 25% of the population, barely 15% of the funds were allocated. I think that if the basic idea is that the Development Fund is an institution that will encourage projects and programmes to reduce regional differences, encourage employment, etc., that this should primarily be directed towards those who are in the most difficult situation, where the highest level of unemployment is, where infrastructure is at the worst and where it is most needed. It is not logical to reassess tens of millions of euros and again to place most of these funds in Novi Sadili Southbački County, however, and to make even greater differences, because someone will say that they have the most administrative capacity, they can write the best projects, and eventually, the fund's headquarters is in Novi Sad. They have the most friends on the trust board, etc. It may not be a criterion on paper, but in practice it happens. The figures on allocated funds themselves in the past ten years make that clear. Therefore, because of the fairness of the distribution of these funds, i.e. the purposes of these funds, I think that this attitude is completely meaningful and should be accepted, so that all those who cry for incentives from the fund would have more opportunities to withdraw funds for their territory, and therefore do something about their own development. If this remains so that everyone has equal treatment, it will never happen that more funds go to Banat than to Novi Sad, and, of course, far more necessary for these funds to be placed in Banat or some other region that is less developed than it is in Novi Sad or Southbački County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10013	Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10014	Just a few sentences to say. As an authorised promoter, the Assembly did not support this amendment of yours, not because it does not agree with the idea, but because we think that if we accept such a formulation as you have indicated here, it would practically mean the exclusive possibility of making such money available and investing for that purpose alone. At the same time, I have to tell you that without this attitude that you have proposed, we have the opportunity to predict special programs for underdeveloped municipalities. In the previous period, the Development Fund had a large number of projects, a large number of competitions that were aimed at these very environments that you were talking about and we had a specific approach, a kind of positive discrimination against the projects that came from that field. I mean, we fully agree with your idea, but we think that this formulation, as we have in Article 4, allows for such access through programmes and through various other documents and decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10015	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10016	Perhaps this formulation I have stated is not the happiest to end, but I believe and agree that when you adopt the Fund's work programme you will consider this. I even think that those municipalities that are over-developed, that at least for some time period should be excluded from the programme, that is, the means of these municipalities, the entities from these municipalities, to try to reach an average level of development through the largest location of undeveloped resources that would be acceptable to all citizens wherever they live in the territory of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10017	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support this for the reason that I also supported Zika Gojkovic's amendment, by more precisely determining how to distribute the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. I'm afraid we're becoming a congregation of minority shareholders. After the withdrawal of those amendments, we have no guarantee that this other party will participate in the creation of the programme and without any obligation and firm formulation in this law, I do not see any obligation to make that decentralisation into the distribution of funds from the Vojvodina Development Fund really happen. Who can guarantee us, and this amendment has been withdrawn, that both sides will be equal, and secondly, that this other side will have insight and that it will prevent what has happened so far? It happened that the funds in Vojvodina were distributed so that where the ruling parties have so many votes and there is so much money going on, where they have no votes and where they have no power, where the government is not the same, what we are resented is that we now have some other kind of coalition, and only now as unjust to them, and municipalities where the ruling coalition behind the AP Vojvodina, the government of Vojvodina is not in power in the middle, in municipalities. The municipalities rightly object to the distribution of these funds because they believe they are being punished because the elections did not win the gasses that make up the ruling majority in the government of the AP Vojvodina. For this reason, so that it does not happen, and I do not claim that it will happen, but it can happen, there are reasonable and reasonable doubts that this can happen, and for that reason I will support this amendment. As you can see, this Assembly is not a Assembly delegated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be bound by some of the apriori agreements, especially here in any of the parliamentary groups. We try to think for ourselves, to vote in the way we think we should, as voters recommend, otherwise this Assembly would be without need. She could be imperceptible, like the one we have after privatization, so-called. The assembly of minority shareholders. So I believe this is worth supporting. I'm not sure it'll pass, but my God, there are amendments to the law. As an idea, this is extremely worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10019	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10020	In Article 4, it is under point 7) incentivising balanced regional development and the fact that what is beautifully suggested, that it takes account of the adoption of the annual work programme of the development fund or of the business plan, means that it is a good suggestion, but it is in some way covered. I believe that, of all amendments to Article 4, the virtually most complete amendment of Parliamentarian Moma Colaković is, because all that is mentioned in the basic text is yet to be encouraged by social entrepreneurship and I think that this is how all the objectives that should be achieved through the work of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund have been rounded up. In this context, I could not support the amendment, regardless of the reasons why it is necessary to encourage even regional development, not by automation, because it is very difficult for automaticism and per cent of the funds to be placed unless there are programmes for the allocation of funds in certain environments or specific projects to be financed. The point is, there's a good intention. I am sure that the Development Fund will reflect these good intentions when adopting the annual work programmes of the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10021	Thank you. Article 4 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Government did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and amendments were not declared. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10022	Dear President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, it is my pleasure that you have accepted the amendment of Colakovic's colleague, who speaks of encouraging social entrepreneurship, and in that sense I understand the explanation you gave for not accepting this amendment, because the essence is the same, it was just a different text. In that sense, I will withdraw the proposed amendment, because I believe that this formulation you wrote achieves the same goal. I will just say one more sentence, perhaps to support why it is good, that in addition to the objectives achieved by these other programming definitions in Article 4, this creates the possibility that in the entire territory of the Vojvodina those social categories that live in different regions are actually supported, whether they are disabled and whether they may be women, whether these are marginal groups, such as members of the Roma national community, to be as an additional positive element in the projects that are being delivered to you in the fund, to be another additional plus in the allocation of these funds. I think this is working to improve the role of the fund, not to go in the direction that you said, some means, that they aim to derogate that fund. The effort, this gives the fund one significant role in creating a society of social justice for which we are absolutely all in favour. In that sense, I thank you again, we're going to withdraw the amendment and I think that's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10023	Thank you. Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10024	Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that Srdjan Shayn not withdraw the amendment. He hasn't taken it in writing yet. Since I read the amendment - encouraging the position of groups of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens, in order to achieve full equality. I don't think it's just minority groups, Roma and disabled, and it's not just social entrepreneurship. It could be, say, the village population. From exposure, I remember well, Mr. Pastor, we have come to the conclusion that in Vojvodina, especially in villages, there is no sewerage, there is no plumbing, there is no gasification. So it's a group of people who are essentially in an unequal position, at least I'm considering it, there are villages in Vojvodina where no baby was born. There are villages in Vojvodina where you have between 100 and 200 empty houses. I have seen this amendment as a wish of the promoter, not only to advance minority groups, groups that can be injured, but also groups that are essentially in an unequal position, and we will agree that this village population is certainly in an unequal position compared to the population living in Novi Sad, Kikindi, Zrenjanin, Sremska Mitrovica, Rumi and Indjia. So they don't have the same roads, they don't have the same telecommunications, they don't have the gas, they don't have the sewers. Many of them do not have water, many of them are used by wells, many of them suffer from various infectious diseases. We've learned all this from the proposal's presentation. That's why I thought this amendment to Srdjan Shaina was worth it. If he pulls it, my God, I have nowhere to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10025	Since Mr. Shane has withdrawn the amendment, I'm only asking you to do it in writing. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the Government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10026	Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, fellow MPs, our parliamentary group has largely focused amendments on two areas. One refers to attempts to channel the funds to ensure the even development of municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The second part of the amendment concerns strengthening the control of the work of the Development Fund. What I want to say at the beginning, before I look back at the amendment is our basic criticism that we have highlighted in principle in the adoption of this law. We think that the Vojvodina Development Fund is a completely wrong path and a completely wrong concept to form as a society of capital and that such an important institution is created on the basis of, here we can say, a requium of "Vojvodine Development Bank", a chaos and poor work that has worked in that institution. The fact is that it forms as a society of capital and problems that will be, regardless of what this amendment has been withdrawn, will only be seen in the future. Of course, we were of the opinion that it should remain the Vojvodina Development Fund, and that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina should be its founder and that, in fact, what is its role, continue to be, rather than being a single company of capital, a society with limited responsibility that will have much more competences and obligations to deal with than will be the essence of development. What I want to point out as a problem, a problem in this partnership that has appeared very strangely here between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. I'll set an example of how you gave us an opinion on the amendments that were submitted. Mr. President of the Assembly, the opinion given by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments tabled, in the words, they coincide. Someone prescribed it from someone. Very interesting in the word they match. I'd like to hear from you who's here from whom. It's very interesting. Please read your opinion on why our amendment is being rejected. But literally the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is the same. Same argument, same sentence. Please, if you're making such a partnership, then you don't have to violate the dignity of the National Assembly in this way. We're all serious people here, and I'm asking you to consider that everyone from their point of view sees this, not that these opinions come before the National Assembly. It is interesting that all opinions were identical, except for this amendment to Article 3 which was withdrawn. As far as our amendment is concerned, we don't understand why you didn't accept it. All the time when the debate on the budgetary system, the previous debate on the principle of this law, was talked about the need for certain duchy municipalities to be in a discriminatory position in relation to others, that the means needed to be directed to develop them evenly, that some cities were getting more, others less, and that some kind of decentralisation within the AP Vojvodina itself was needed, or some would say, evenly some development of certain municipalities. In that sense, we suggested that the headquarters of this Development Fund be in Zrenjanin. There is an atmosphere in Vojvodina and a deep opinion of the largest number of citizens, that a kind of new sadisation of the Vojvodina is at work. There are attacks coming from Vojvodina that we have a Belgrade, and within the Vojvodina there is a concentration of political power, capital, employment, everything in Novi Sad, while certain parts of the AP Vojvodina, as you said in 12 years the same coalition, ran out of plumbing, no sewers, no roads, no schools, no sports halls. One of the consequences of the 12-year-old government in Vojvodina is the newly-sadification, are the devastated villages in Banat, in a large number of these villages and individual municipalities. It is our opinion that the seat of this fund should be, in this case, in Zrenjanin, to affirm the need for development or exit from poverty and underdevelopment of municipalities in all three districts - Northbanat, Central and South-banat. We thought it would make it easier for projects to be available, to form special offices for other districts, district centers in Vojvodina. If we really want good intentions, then it would be the first step to move some of the province's institutions into some district centers. Let's make it a first step to the Vojvodina Development Fund. Let the other institution go to Sremska Mitrovica tomorrow, for Srem. I must say that you have given an absolutely unacceptable explanation, that this will create additional costs for the start of work and the functioning of the Development Fund. Mr. Pastor, this argument, after a billion expenses made by the Development Bank, is indeed absolutely unacceptable. This bank that we're saving through this right now should be an excuse for some kind of cost, that we won't be able to help citizens get into a situation where their municipalities are developing better -- here, in municipalities in three counties of Banat. Of course, there would be room in Srem for offices, Sremska Mitrovica, Kikinda, etc. I call on all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, especially those who talk about the need for regional development, decentralisation, which we have heard here for months and years, to support our amendment. Or to explain, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment, why are they against it? Let's turn this place upside down for what it stands for. The government of Serbia and the government of Vojvodina are of their opinion against the even development of the Vojvodina municipalities. That's very clear here, because moving the seat from Novi Sad to Zrenjanin is causing some expenses, and the Vojvodina Development Bank has devastated Vojvodina and I don't think you can convince anyone in Vojvodina of that. Please reconsider this amendment. These are not great costs, and they can help policy, which we have heard from you representatives of the province's administration, that something needs to be done, that the desolation that is increasingly occurring along the border between Serbia and Romania in certain Banatian villages slowly stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10027	Mr. Marian Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10028	For the same reasons I have previously supported these amendments, I will support this one. As someone who has been pushing for a better AP Vojvodina position in Serbia since 1990, I am obliged to defend this. I did not advocate replacing Belgrade with Novi Sad and one centralisation with another centralisation. If we have advocated Serbia's decentralisation, it is also passed on to the decentralisation of Vojvodina. So I like that in some way this fund is also decentralised and that the seat, for example, is in Zrenjanin. Why not? What's anti-Vojvodian to be in Zrenjanin? I like that very much. I'll agree to be in Zrenjanin. It's time for something to be from institutions, bodies, etc. of the various organizations belonging to the AP Vojvodina that the seats are decentralised and are located throughout the Vojvodina. Why wouldn't something be in Sremska Mitrovica? Why wouldn't something be in Subotic? Why wouldn't something be in Kanjija? Why wouldn't the seat of something else be in Ada? Why shouldn't something be in Ruma? Why wouldn't something be in Panchev? All that needs to be shared. At least we dukes should know that what we earn is shared between ourselves and what we agree with Serbia that it belongs to us and that we share equally with all the Dukes, that all the Dukes are even and all feel some good from what we have fought for decentralisation, because we have not only fought in Novi Sad, but also in India, Star Paz, Kikindi, Zrenjanin. That's why I like the seat of this to be in Zrenjanin, and the various other regulations of the AP Duke's headquarters of various organizations from the territory of the AP Vojvodina to move to other cities. I especially like that the organisational units of the development fund can be established in Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad, Somboro, Subotics, Kickindi and Pancheva. This is extremely good because the application is being made, which is estimated to be about whether it is one who submits whether he meets these conditions or whether it is only paperwork. There are many reasons why this amendment should be supported. Unless adopted now, and this fund for the development of Vojvodina is not a holy letter, or this law, and it may change. Perhaps the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina itself will propose that the law be amended in that part and that these organisational units be moved and, say, the seat of Zrenjanin. If we do not adopt this now, I believe that in some next session or call, we will be in a position not only to talk about decentralisation of Serbia and Vojvodina but also some other regions, that all benefit from the budget, from development funds, and that they do not only have political parties and their friends, regardless of what they are called and what territory Serbia is coming from. I would hate for the development funds of neither Serbia nor the Vojvodina to serve as election campaigns, nor any budget funds of makabila and mine. Because the People's Peasant Party respects the autonomy of Vojvodina and the decentralisation of Serbia, I am obliged to support this and I will vote in the voting day and I think there is nothing wrong and anti-Vojvodian in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10029	Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10030	Just a few sentences. There is no dispute between us about ambition, but I must say that unfortunately life does not begin with the law. We have a situation called - the existence of a problem related to RVB, we have an AP Vojvodina Development Fund that still exists today. It's a basic personnel, an institutional one that should serve as one of the headquarters in creating this new institution. These are the circumstances they wanted us to do or not, but we have to take care of it, because it's only so rational. As far as this other ambition is concerned, I must tell you that as far as the Development Fund, the one who was the predecessor, this Development Fund has had and today has an office in all municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These offices, the people in those offices that are financed by the Joint Development Fund and local self-government are institutions that have been used to help people who want to apply to different competitions. Be assured that we will safely save these institutions and not only in the centers of the district but in the territory of the entire Vojvodina in all local self-government, we will have people who will be at our service to those who want to apply, as we have so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10031	Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10032	I agree they're good and excellent shots in Novi Sad. We can't say they're not even outside of the New Now, that there's no Zrenjanin. We are now leaving the situation that something that is the present state must be inherited in a new institution. Why couldn't the quality people who exist in Zrenjanin in South Banat County be able to do it in quality? If that's what we're thinking, we're really going in, not only talking about Vojvodina but Serbia, good personnel exist in Belgrade and Novi Sad, and there's no outside of it. Then everyone from other cities head to Belgrade and Novi Sad. It is only because we are thinking about costs, and we are not thinking in the long term that Serbia should get one hope in terms of the existence of institutions in some space, that this space has hope that it can develop. If what you said is true, I don't see why no amendment on these office seats has been accepted. There was no obstacle to the office having headquarters everywhere. I think it's rational for the county centers to have a seat. The question of rationality should they have in every municipality, but in the headquarters of the district, which is accessible to every municipality where it can be easily reached. Besides, it's not a big deal, but it's significant. There's got to be a need for accessibility. We said at first it was a problem. We're building an important institution for an AP Vojvodina born or what Christmas coat of arms would say. It is born of a problem called the Development Bank. Instead of being an institution that will contribute to a new beginning of the development of Vojvodina municipalities. We can't play with important things that way. The development fund is a serious matter. We're sending word that his role is to save the Development Bank. I think it's very bad and a lot of things and the possibilities of that fund we limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10033	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The assembly of AP Vojvodina and the government did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and amendments were not declared. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10034	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Pastor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine has in its essence been detecting almost the same problem we've just been having and I want first of all to say that RFV is certainly just one of the potential potentials available to the AP Vojvodina for realisation, for the SPS, for the objectives defined in Article 4 concerning the development of the economy of agriculture, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, employment, exports, other projects and even regional development. Indeed, we must not ignore in this context the experience of the existing Development Fund, which should be one basis for the kind of future way of working and functioning of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, which was formed by this bill, because when we look at the report on the work of that fund, when we look at the work programmes, we can learn some lessons about how the allocations of funds were conducted, or loans. They clearly show certain trends. That's what I was talking about, and a few colleagues talked about it in principle. Novi Sad realised from 2002 to 2012, without 2011, 536 loans with 47 million, almost 48m euros, more than 24 municipalities combined, but, for example, certain municipalities, Sremski Karlovci 11, Opovo 12, Novi Knezevic 20, Choka six, Mali Ijjoš 20. This shows that there has been some concentration in the realisation of favourable loans and funds. The amendment I have made concerns Article 5(5). – The Development Fund can have its own organisational units on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I have suggested that the Development Fund has its own organisational units on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, because I do not believe that in this way we are leaving room for the Fund to be able, or not to, and in what time period will it form organisational units and I believe that the mandatory formation of organisational units will establish a system of better availability of resources for the future development fund of the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, both governments have rejected this amendment and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. One reason is to generate additional costs for the start-up of the Development Fund. I must say that without the change in policy and the work of the future Development Fund and the discontinuity in relation to such examples and the work of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, we get and we get a kind of newsadization. I believe that in this way we provide the silent extinction of a large number of undeveloped border municipalities, and if we add even unfavourable demographic movements, I think that by continuing such a policy, we get an immeasurable cost, not some kind of extra cost. Such a way of working should certainly be avoided. The idea of my amendment was going that way. The availability of resources is very important. Small, undeveloped municipalities, something more underdeveloped than Novi Sad, don't have certain projects and programs and that can be one of the reasons. The reason is also the lack of quality personnel and certain other potentials to do so. Such municipalities, such parts of the Vojvodina certainly need help. Organizational units formed in this sense could provide significant assistance. On the other hand, it is not necessary to overlook the fact that smaller municipalities, undeveloped municipalities are disabled on the other side to be able to withdraw certain favourable loans, as a larger amount of credit requires greater security. The property of smaller municipalities has a lower value, it is burdened with some other loans, and at such a rate we have a position year after year that more developed municipalities, such as Novi Sad and some others, are withdrawing more and more loans in nominal amounts, and undeveloped municipalities are becoming less and less loans in nominal amounts, and we are getting a growing difference from year to year in the development of certain municipalities. This is certainly not in the context of the declared objective – even regional development. If you look at the work programme, that's what I said last time, the criteria for the lack of development of municipalities, in my opinion, should be significantly pursued, in terms of the assignment and monitoring of the implementation of projects and loans, which in the previous work of the Fund was not the case. It additionally burdens this mode of operation. I think it takes one discontinuity with such a policy in the work of the future AP Vojvodina Fund. In that context, there was also a proposal for my amendment. The second amendment, which concerned the election of the Director of the Future Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, went in the same sense and in the same direction as the resolution of this problem, with the desire that the future Director, who will be elected and resolved by the Supervisory Board this time, and not unlike the Fund for the Development of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina in which an additional legitimacy was given to that director and transparency, and through the work of the Assembly and the participation of all representatives of the municipalities of the AP Vojvodina, in which way they influence the selection of that director, to limit the election to two terms. I believe that this ensures a certain necessary exchangeability, allows someone to do their first mandate in a good way and to confirm it in another mandate, but there is no reasonable reason to allow the selection of the CEO of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund indefinitely. I think that this would provide an anti-corruption segment in the selection of directors, but I know that many successful environments and many city municipalities have a kind of political agreement, that the selection of directors takes place at most two mandates. In this way, it would certainly be possible for the director to change the position that personnel from other municipalities from the AP Vojvodina come to such a significant function and create a policy of the Fund. It is obvious that there have been many missed opportunities in the current period and work of the Fund and administration and that there is objective responsibility for these missed chances. We believe that this kind of policy, especially when it comes to balanced regional development, but also to the realisation of other certain stated objectives, needs to be amended. We, as an opposition party, are ready in the AP Vojvodina to support one such policy and to participate in solving concrete problems concerning the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and to advocate a fundamental autonomy. I have estimated that you, Mr. Pastor, with your participation, are truly constructive, and since you are the chairman of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, better co-operation has been established between the two parliaments. I want to thank you for that, and I hope that together in the future, we will be able to work together to solve these problems, in the development of essential autonomy, and not in any way daily-political autonomy and to create some exclusiveity in certain political parties and movements in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10035	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10036	I think these amendments, like this amendment, are not good. A few things we have to react to have been said. Therefore, it is not appropriate to compare the concepts of the ear of an average citizen and to compare municipalities, such as Novi Sad and Sremski Karlovci, and without being fully aware of how many people live in the Karlovci and how many in Novi Sad. Don't, with all the respect for cities, places, municipalities in Serbia, things can't be observed so linearly. Secondly, this same province administration has done the most proportionately in those municipalities where we were not in power, as it is said here, and it can be easily checked. I have to say, there weren't many of those municipalities where we weren't in power until these composers came. Vojvodina does not mean the same party in power in the province of Vojvodina. We need to understand each other and that such a burden is not being brought out in one tenant way, that, on the one hand, it violates the constitutional autonomy of the province by pushing the burden that the citizens of Vojvodina hate the New Sad because the money is being poured in there. This is one subtle way of attacking the AP Vojvodina, and the other is to say that the province's administration and the province of Vojvodina is equal to DS. Tomorrow, one of you may be in power in Vojvodina, some of you will never, but it is at the will of the citizens of Vojvodina, and they will decide on it, wishing in this way to improve their autonomy and their lives, living standards, the future of their country, but of course within the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the one chosen by the citizens in the province's elections which, to remind them, are half proportional, half majority, which is still the ideal for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, these citizens choose how and what to do in which places. And you, when you run for elections, remember what you talked about and remember what stories you went before citizens in Vojvodina, citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the AP Vojvodina. Suddenly these stories are a little different. Therefore, make sure that we're careful about carrying out such things, especially since we don't want to, I repeat it several times, we've talked about it a lot, not creating a false division that doesn't exist because someone isn't in the government in Vojvodina. Keep in mind that these institutions are permanent and they will last, whoever comes to power in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10037	Zoran Kasalovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10038	Mr. President, the previous speaker has just made certain criteria, arguments that I agree with and I have been very careful and careful and mentioned Sremske Karlovci and Novi Sad and criteria of size, relationships, power center, potential and everything else. I totally agree that someone was supposed to measure those criteria. Now if you take that Novi Sad has realised 536 loans with 47m euros and Sremski Karlovci 11 loans, 270,000. Is Novi Sad 50 times more powerful in anything compared to Sremski Karlovci, or by the number of inhabitants, by necessity, by anything? As far as hatred is concerned, in no word or in my opinion I have said that the citizens of the Vojvodina hate the New Sad. I'm just saying they're against a new plantation and a concentration of funds in Novi Sad. I never spoke of hatred, on the contrary. On the other hand, I didn't mention DS either. If someone recognized that the AP Vojvodina is equal to DS, I don't think so, but as far as the previous 12 years are concerned after October 5th, it's probably a good part. It is good that they recognize that another time is coming and that some other parties will come to power. I hope that this will soon be an SPS with its partners and will produce a different, more efficient and effective policy in developing the essential autonomy of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10039	Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10040	Just in a few sentences, let me say, in relation to this problem that we're talking about now, not for the first time, about the evenness of access to certain possibilities. You spoke, Mr. Kasalovic, about the practice of the Development Fund over the past 10 years. For the past 10 years, I've seen this practice closely, and I can tell you that there have been a total of 6,000 funds, 6,000 competitions, 6,000 successful applications, of which, as you say, 530 have arrived in Novi Sad. On the other hand, I have to tell you that these placements in no way were irrevocable. It was always about placements for which a certain guarantee was to be given, whether in real estate or in a bank guarantee or in a note or in anything else. There was a risk taken by the one who applied. We had an 85% refund in these competitions. We have in every local self-government and today we have an office of the Development Fund. I can't imagine that since New Year's Eve, when we're installed, we're starting the Development Fund, we're not continuing the same practice, because opportunities and potentials need to be brought closer to people. But I have to tell you that for dozens and dozens of times we've gone to other municipalities to convince people to use opportunities, but it's extremely difficult. It's not because we've been neglecting these people, but because there's not a strong enough economy in those environments, there's not a lot of capable entrepreneurs who are willing to enter such arrangements. I have to tell you that, for example, in Little Ijos, 22 applicators were to fight a much bigger battle than 530 in Novi Sad. It will certainly be the same, and you know it as well. It's not the same to convince an entrepreneur in Zrenjanin to take credit in the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10041	National MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10042	Just for a little while. Mr. Kassalovic, I wasn't all I was saying about your exposure, if we'd heard from you. You didn't say all those things you called for, but some of your predecessors did. I hope you didn't get me wrong, nor do I claim that your party is the one that promotes a negative relationship with Vojvodina and the New Sad and of course that all of them are against a new sedation, as one bad example of functioning, but I'm just saying that some speakers used that approach before you, that terminology, that program, to show essentially that it's unnecessary. When this all comes together with the draft budget that was before, remember how we had a very negative debate here and then they asked questions -- what do we need this administration anyway, what do we need structures and institutions in the province of Vojvodina? For this reason, that someone in this congregation, besides Mr. Pastor, would stand up and say that it is not exactly the same as the municipality of any in the Republic of Serbia, that it is not the same as someone's pre-election plans and programmes and the creation of artificial congregations and governments in this country, but that it is one thing that suffers its history from both good tradition and usefulness for its citizens from co-existence and proven, if you will, through the centuries. Can't put a sign of equality. In that sense, we always have to act, so that the congregation doesn't go the wrong way. Of course, it needs to be brought closer to all municipalities and cities, but simply bigger cities anywhere in Serbia have, unfortunately, greater potential because of the unequal development, more tolerance and application, more courageous people or entrepreneurs and they simply perform more courageously. It doesn't mean that someone has something against a smaller municipality, but it turns out that numbers don't lie. You must then tell the citizens – Novi Sad is a significantly bigger city than the Sremski Karlovci, but it is only seven kilometers away. Don't make it so simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10043	Mr. Kasalovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10044	In a good part, we can agree that Mr. Stefanovic and I, that bigger cities are braver, that the figures show, but larger cities should, what the figures show, be proportionate to their size to withdraw both funds and loans and potentials. If we ignore that principle, the figures are inexorably speaking, we come into a situation where certain municipalities, certain regions, border areas are left completely out of the system, and alone with their potentials they cannot cope with. My only motive and desire was that, by respecting the policy and principles that the figures show, the future development fund learns lessons, changes policy well, and, let's say, the criteria of non-development of certain parts, weights or significantly takes into account the possibility of withdrawing certain funds. Otherwise, we Socialists really want to deal with essential autonomy, the problems of all citizens. We are opposed to the phenomenon of day-to-day political autonomy, the exclusiveity of individual parties, when moves that want to end full autonomy, as well as other political parties and movements that want to internationalise and lead to autonomy outside Serbia and polemics and stories and everything else. I think the SPS in the previous period and in the position when it was to make certain decisions has shown that it really wants to deal with autonomy in a serious way and that we have voted in favour of certain legislative proposals and our participation in the creation of a future law on the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina indeed in this regard showed consistency.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10045	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10046	I answered because of what Mr. Kasalovic said at the very end of his speech. Of course Kasalovic and the SPS have the right to state their views on the autonomy of Vojvodina and on each of the issues that are on the agenda today, but I'm afraid Mr. Kasalovic has crossed that border that is acceptable. You know, you have, however, put into the same level of political parties that are in one way or another, but in the framework of constitutional order, in the law and the Constitution, allowed in pluralist society to advocate the development and expansion of the autonomy of the Vojvodina and, on the other hand, the movements, as you yourself said, which in their operation and the pawning have violence, which act counter-constitutionally, some of them also put the Constitutional Court out of force and banned their action. Such relativisation, such putting into the same plane, is simply not good and is not useful for the Vojvodina or for the Republic of Serbia. It's just not the same thing. Political parties, especially those who are parliamentary, have the right to stand up in every way for the degree of autonomy they think is best or good. Those who seek to violently eliminate autonomy, which resort to violence, who resort to the assembly of public lists for the lynch, people proclaim traitors and separatists, cannot have the same position and rights as the political parties you have designated as autonomial. Let me tell you right now, I don't think that when you were talking about LDP, I think you were thinking about other parties, and that's why I'm reacting, because it's not about us. It is not good to create such an atmosphere in public, especially as a man who comes from Vojvodina and especially as a high-ranking official of one of the ruling political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10047	The word is Mr. Kasalovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10048	It's true, Mr. Djuric, that I didn't mean LDP, I spoke in general. When certain dilemmas arise about the autonomy of the Vojvodina, when artificial problems arise, in such an atmosphere and climate, certain extreme movements and certain political parties who exclusively want to deal with autonomy in such a way and in such a climate really cannot talk about essential autonomy, but we are talking about problems that are not being solved and the way that they try to solve themselves outside the institutions. I have just finished my previous presentation with my address to Mr Pastor and have seen through this way of communication and the work of the two congregations that issues and problems of essential autonomy can be solved through the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. It may sometimes depend on people who are at the head of these institutions. I want to believe deep down that it's time for us to first of all depend on the institutions themselves, regardless of the people who are at the head, but we really need to take the first step. Personally, me and the SPS want to deal with the problem of autonomy that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10049	The word is Mr. Djuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10050	Of course, I agree that institutions should be in the first place, but institutions are mostly people, in young democracies especially. For many years, our institutions will depend primarily on the quality or independence or freedom in the functioning of the people who lead them. Unfortunately, we have a Constitutional Court that has changed its approaches to certain issues, including the autonomy of Vojvodina, to the assessment of its basic legal documents, depending on how power was replaced. But I'm afraid you've repeated the same mistake in my answer. You can't say - someone who fights with legitimate means to achieve their goals, no matter what political party it is. We were a political party that claims that you forced the Constitution, that it was first written, and then voted in a completely wrong and non-transparent manner and that there were serious abuses in a two-day referendum, that this way significantly limited the autonomy of Vojvodina and that for years after that, for all six years, we have a whole series of problems, conflicts, ambiguities and political poisonings. You're saying that someone out of it is generating their right to make moves that are to end Vojvodina's autonomy, which are violent. That's what I'm talking about. It's that logic that says in domestic violence that a woman with her behavior usually deserves to be beaten by a bully. I'm sorry, but that's not allowed. There are organisations, political movement and political parties whose goals are constitutional and whose objectives are unconstitutional. The same goes for fighting methods. I'm just asking you to respect a very important distinction here in democracy for the rest of your life. Not to mention the ghost being released from the bottle. I'm afraid he was released from the bottle by throwing yogurt at the province's institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10051	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travan Miljevic, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic and Josef Shandor. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are very sorry that this amendment was not passed. Our intention was about the same as in previous speakers. It is important for us to determine the number of organisational units of the Fund. The goal is to get as much resources as possible into less developed environments. So far, that wasn't the case. As other colleagues have said, when we look at the Fund's work report in the past ten years, we'll see that a third of all the funds went to Novi Sad, that's for example. In South Banat County, where we have eight municipalities, all about 12% of the funds and the whole Banat got less than Novi Sad. The Vojvodina was not evenly developed and we are all aware of it, and yet the most money from this fund went there to those most developed, or to Novi Sad. It's similar in the Capital Investment Fund. When we look at the top twenty projects, so-called. The Capital Investment Fund, we'll see that more than 50% of the funds have been allocated to projects in Novi Sad. The United regions believe that the Vojvodina also needs decentralisation and that all parts of the Vojvodina must develop evenly. The Fund's organisational units should be placed in undeveloped parts of the Vojvodina. Like a colleague from the DSS and, I think, from the SNS, I'm thinking that even the Fund's headquarters should be moved from Novi Sad and placed in some part of the Vojvodina that's underdeveloped. So the organisational units should be placed in parts of the Vojvodina that have not been developed, for several reasons. Small environments need to be strengthened, easier to fill and deliver credit applications, and thus in some ways encourage them to apply for these loans and help eventually to obtain guarantees. Another reason why this amendment should have been adopted and clearly defined by the number and possibly the seat of the organisational units is our concern that these organisational units, on the other hand, will not be too much and that this will not represent both new employment and an increase in the administration. We certainly know that new employment in the administration must also be paid from the budget, or on the burden of citizens. Mr. Pastor said that there would seem to be a unit or something in every municipality, and here in the law it says that the Development Fund can have its own organisational units on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We felt that it was necessary to define clearly the number of these units. First, to help the funds come into less developed environments in Vojvodina, which there are indeed many, and secondly, to prevent new employment, i.e. additional funds for employees' salaries. Because we had a case, for example, that profits in the province had to be reduced from December 1st, because the DRI found that in 2010 for salaries, allowances and compensation of Vojvodina officials had been allocated to 600 million dinars more than is allowed by the Law on salaries in state authorities and public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10053	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina did not accept the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljević, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic and Jožef Shandor. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10054	Your Honor, President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, I would first like to thank you for accepting this amendment. I'll try not to answer it again. United regions of Serbia, i.e. The representatives of the URS have submitted eight amendments, and four have been accepted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. It just shows that there is a dialogue in Serbia. A dialogue which unfortunately did not exist in the previous period when the staff of certain parties had this passability and opportunity to work. He is looking forward, of course, to the fact that in the term of this government for the third time already, and you have said it yourself, we are talking about proposals coming from the AP Vojvodina and that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has its legitimate representative here, which we will agree was not always a practice in the previous period. Also, when we submitted this amendment, we only more precisely defined the annual work programme of the Development Fund and defined the term until which the programme should be adopted for the following year, this is the 15th of December of the current year. I think it's clear to everyone, when we wrote the amendments, that we wrote them for the best of intentions to improve the legal proposal. I think it's totally fine when MPs talk about legal proposals and try to improve them with their opinions and actions. Also, I will agree with my colleague Anna, it is very important to encourage development in smaller areas and we discussed this in principle. To support those measures that, let's say, would be said, as a kind of policy, positive discrimination when it comes to undeveloped environments. I'll do it again. We will support the bill's proposal that it should lead to the even development of Vojvodina and we expect it precisely from those people who have much greater responsibility at the province level than the one that has a republic. Of course, as we have carefully read the proposal of this law, we will also closely monitor the work of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. Because you'll agree when you have one dubiosis in a bank that is shut down by one request, when we have 75% of the uncharging loans where there was a timely even decision by the Assembly to recapitulate the Vojvodine Development Bank. No, I don't think there's any dispute to further monitor the work of that fund. I also don't think that it should be suspected of the good intentions of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia when we talk about the proposal for this law, because it is precisely the bill that shows that Mladjan Dinkic and the URS were right when it came to the senselessness of the capitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank. Today's signing of a pre-negotiation by the Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government with the Chinese firm on the construction of a Vojvodina highway that will be 27km long with a tunnel through Frusko Gora is precisely a good intention and that the Vojvodina region is developing. It represents exactly what others may have announced and promoted a few years ago, and unfortunately have not done so, it is also the will of the URS when we talk about this law and this government and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government to give each part of Serbia a chance to develop equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10055	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10056	Mr. President, Mr. AP Vojvodina, as I said the objective of our amendment was to point out the importance of the Development Fund to highlight its development role and the need to work on the development of primarily all municipalities on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment that provides for the participation of representatives of all local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, meaning all 45 representatives of cities and municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the Assembly of the Development Fund. What you gave us as an explanation of why the amendment was rejected is something we disagree with and what we highlighted as the concept of the difference between us. You told us that accepting this amendment would change the essence of the agreements concluded by the government of the AP Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia, which defined the founders and their participation in the capital. We think, once again, I want to point out that the nature of the fund is as defined as the society of capital for us, we think it is controversial for the largest number of municipalities in Vojvodina. We think it is controversial for all local self-governments because they are in the problems they have, and they expect many autonomous provinces, are not interested in the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina, they are not interested in it at all. They expect that for certain projects that apply security funds and want to participate in the highest body to make important strategic decisions on their development. On the one hand, I'm sure they want to participate in the decision-making process, and on the other hand, it's important that they be present for the control function. Especially control functions because we can hardly trust, Mr. Pastor, in the functioning of the Development Fund as defined by the majority capital of the AP Vojvodina after everything that's happened in the Development Bank. We don't trust each other, and we believe that for these very reasons, that control must be strengthened. Increased control by those who are directly interested in the funds that will be provided there, which are local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So we don't accept the argument you gave us, we don't accept the legal nature of the Development Fund as a company of capital, we don't accept the reasons why it's being founded, which is saving the Development Bank, the fact that it's pushing under the rug of a key issue, and that's why the Development Bank led to it. We think it's better if this law retreats. I say once again, that which the coat of arms is born, the time is not right. He was born on bad grounds, that the Vojvodina Development Fund, as one serious institution of AP, continues to develop and work, and that works naturally in the interest of local self-government on the territory of the autonomous province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10057	The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10058	I must respond, with all due respect to your last sentences. I agree with you on the bitterness that you and I and we all have together around the Vojvodina Development Bank. We insist again, I personally insist on this pay phone to determine what happened. I also have to say that what happened with the Development Bank can't mean and the Priory can't mean mistrust compared to what hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10059	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10060	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I like this amendment, unless it is adopted, it remains for the thinking of the government of the AP Vojvodina and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. I'm telling you this because the explanation says that essentially the two governments have agreed, so in some future period, to consider this initiative and this proposal, which was about to be copied and delegated to a representative of the local self-government in the Vojvodina Development Fund Assembly. I think that would contribute to the even regional development of the Vojvodina itself. So here I see a good initiative, which should be considered in the future, if this can't go through some new changes and additions. I think it's for every commendation and that they need local self-government to participate as much as possible in the Vojvodina Development Fund, because above all it is intended to develop local self-government in the territory of the entire Vojvodina, I will not doubt that it is intended only for the New Sad. I believe that all local self-governments would be happy to take part in the Assembly of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10061	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic and Jožef Shandor. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10062	Thank you. We are pleased to see that this amendment is ours and that it is also the circuit assembly, in some ways realizing that strong financial discipline and control of spent funds are needed. This amendment foresees that at least once a year, perhaps even more frequently, the funds spent are being controlled. It's important to know where the money was spent, because we simply had some negative experiences in the previous period. We had two, so to speak, political projects of the province's government that failed. One is the Vojvodine Development Bank and the other is the Capital Investment Fund. The reason is because they were political rather than development projects. We would not like that to happen with the Vojvodina Development Fund, and that is why we have submitted this amendment. When the Vojvodina Development Bank was established, we listened to the same stories, that it would foster economic development, encourage employment, that loans would be able to use local self-government for development. What happened? There's only big debts left, we've got an uncharging 75% of the credit. Who got those loans? Could an underdeveloped municipality have received funds to use for its own development? I don't think so. I believe only that the establishment of the Fund won't amnesty those responsible for the Vojvodina Development Bank. In the Vojvodine Development Bank, 300m euros were inserted through the recapitalisation. It's the money of the people of Vojvodina. What could be done with all that money? Perhaps the best answer could be given by the citizens of Vojvodina, who live in cities where no factory works, in villages where there are no asphaltes, no plumbing, no infirmarys. When the Investment Capital Fund was set up, it was pompously announced that it would rebirth Vojvodina. We're wondering again what capital projects are these, which of these pairs were done? Even a promise from the president of the province's government, given four to five years ago, that a highway would be made from Novi Sad to Ruma, with a tunnel through Fruska Gora. Until today, no project-technical documentation has even been done. Fortunately, today, Verica Kalanovic, minister of regional development, signed a pre-contract on the construction of this highway. It is a capital project, which will enable the development of Vojvodina, not that it becomes, as it is today, an undeveloped region. Why is this important for the development of the Duke? Why is this a capital project? We know that the most investors came and opened factories and new jobs, right in the places by the highway. We from the URS look forward to taking care equally of the development of all parts of Serbia and what this project will give many cities in Vojvodina. What do we have left of the Capital Investment Fund? The rest are the same debts, the other companies are in bankruptcy, who worked for him and the fired workers. Worse still, municipalities were politically forced to repay from their budgets the debts of the Capital Investment Fund. The Panchets had to pay back 320 million, my Covins returned 40 million. Yesterday and today we were talking about pregnant women, maternity parents, poor pensioners. If it hadn't been for these debts, if we hadn't had to pay back, we could have paid off all this. The children in Covin could have had a small sport hall, not to train in rented halls at 11 o'clock in the evening. They could have had a lot of what. This wouldn't have all happened if there had been adequate control of the funds spent, because we know that in six years, the Capital Investment Fund has only filed two reports. That is why we hope that by adopting this amendment, the control of the funds spent in the Vojvodina Development Fund, will be adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10063	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10064	I have to react to what you said. I just want to remind you that over the past 12 years, in the last six months alone, you haven't been a member of the parliamentary majority of the executives at the province level, so in the last six months you haven't been because you haven't crossed the censorship. As for this level where we are now, in the last 12 years you have always been part of the parliamentary majority. Therefore, I would ask you to say sentences from that position. As far as the need for strong financial discipline is concerned, we are aware of these obligations and we have met those obligations until now, before you gave this amendment. As far as the Capital Investment Fund is concerned, I must tell you that your sentences are extremely casual and very incorrect in relation to the situation. Today, the Capital Investment Fund, regardless of having received a total of one and a half times the annual budget of the AP Vojvodina in six years, is less than it should receive on the basis of the constitutional guarantee. Today, the Capital Investment Fund does not have a debt to performers who regularly submitted documentation for the works carried out. As for the highway from Novi Sad to Ruma, with the tunnel below Fruska Gora, we look forward to the project. We look forward to the contract being signed today, but you said there was no project-technical documentation. Twelve billion that were promised to the AP Vojvodina budget in 2013, are coins in the category of dog dinner, because in 2013, there is no way to end project documentation and access work by spending 12 billion dinars. That's what I'm saying in line with what the minister said after this contract was signed. (Ana Novkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10065	The word has the People's MP Ana Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10066	Thank you. I'm sorry to use these expressions for dinner. I'll only correct you if we've been in power for the last four years, not 12 years, just like you. Some things we didn't support, like budgets, one year. We were punished, just like you, by leaving some local authorities, because we know who had absolute authority. We cannot bear responsibility for the fact that the Capital Investment Fund and Vojvodina did not receive enough funds in the previous four years, because, as you know, the head of the province's government and the finance minister were from the same party. We can bear responsibility for whether Vojvodina has received adequate funds in the coming period. As far as the projects are concerned, I think I'm absolutely right, because many projects are not even implemented, there are only decisions and decisions that were mostly used in pre-election campaigns, when the chairman of the Management Board of the Capital Investments Fund comes in and makes decisions, and the money doesn't arrive afterwards. There's a lot of people on this list who, for example, needed Kovin to get it, and I'm talking about it because I have reliable data for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10067	The word is Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10068	I want to accept what you said about responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as responsibility is concerned, the situation is today's responsibility. As for the famous three weeks for capital investment, we have these 12 billion on travel paper. In addition, we have two billion real money according to this in 2013, the Capital Investment Fund. The AP Vojvodina, as regards capital investments, can count on these two billion that are real money and on the category of "ker's dinner" in terms of uncertainty compared to 12 billion, which, even if they are, simply, will not be tangible because they are not the technical conditions for starting the investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10069	The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10070	Thank you. I would add that we are simply not responsible for the lack of project technical documentation for the highway from Novi Sad to Ruma. It wasn't our pre-election promise. Someone else promised it for five years. I'm terribly sorry that in five years, no project-technical documentation has been done, as I'm sorry there's been a lot of talk about the banatical, which should help the municipalities of South Banat move forward. She's not in sight either. I honestly tell you that I'm terribly sorry about that and many of those who live in places off the highway and that investors won't come and because we didn't get our chance. Thank you. (Bojan Đuric, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10071	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10072	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure because I think you hurt Article 27 when you didn't warn your colleague, Novkovic. She said one really amazing thing here. She said that the constitutional provision on the part of the budget belonging to the AP Vojvodina was not respected, that her party could not be held accountable because it did not run a ministry, and now it will be able to answer because it is run by a ministry. Excuse me, there is a clear division of power in the Republic of Serbia. For the implementation of constitutional obligations, the Government, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Assembly, and the National Assembly for the implementation of the budget, shall be accountable by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, no individual ministry and no individual party. Don't destroy this country's constitutional system. It's already broken enough anyway. It didn't hurt me to mention the dog. I asked my colleague Popovic that we simply mark this uncertainty in a different way. I think we'd be like, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is that right? That would be about what the Duke is promised through the funds for that tunnel you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10073	I believe that I did not harm Article 27, because each of the MPs who delivers the facts does so in a way that he thinks is responding to the political side, where all of us are obliged to respect the Constitution, which is reflected in our work and voting and the adoption of regulations. If I had interrupted Mrs. Novkovic, I would have effectively violated her right to have her position in the way she feels she needs to take it out. Of course, you have the right to ask us to plead on this in voting day. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10074	Just one sentence to say. As far as project-technical documentation is concerned, the production of project-technical documentation for the highway and tunnel below Fruska Gora cannot be, by law, a duchy project and a duchy task, but rather in the jurisdiction of the Republic. Therefore, I am as sorry as you are, which is not done, but since we do not know how much the project process and obtaining consent is, for this very reason it is absolutely incredible that 12 billion dinars are spent in 2013 for the realization of this project that does not exist today. It's a category of "cheese dinner" or, if you want another term, "hump on the branch," total uncertainty and inability to reach. For that reason, I think it's extremely problematic that today it's fixed in the duchy budget as something that's certain, although we all know and you claim there's no chance of that right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10075	The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10076	I don't think you and I are responsible for the lack of project documentation. It wasn't our pre-election promise, either. It was some other political party. I am glad that something has started and that Vojvodina will get that highway and I think that is the most important thing, that both the province and the republican levels of government should work together, that it would be better in Vojvodina and that the highway would be built and that Vojvodina would develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10077	The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10078	I'm not talking about responsibility here, whose responsibility is that there's no project, but that there's no project. If there's no project, then the project needs to be done. We know it takes about six months for a hens to build a project. If that's the case for a henhouse, it'll probably take a long time for the highway with the tunnel. There is no way that in 2013 12 billion will be built into it through the performance of the works. That's all I want to talk about, in any case, about the responsibility of who missed the project.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10079	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10080	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly and the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, without wanting to further extend this debate without wanting to condemn anything impossible in the beginning, without wanting to criticise anyone, I think I should accept the fact that one important pre-negotiation was signed today. I think we should accept the fact that someone on that subject was building a campaign, as it is. I don't think that's true. (President: I must warn you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are required to speak on the subject of the agenda. You don't do that now, and I'm asking you to get back on the agenda, or I'll take your word for it. ) When we talk about the even development of the Vojvodina and what this law should provide, I think it is necessary to support the very fact that the budget has built on the possibility of capital investment being realised for three years, which is a dialogue in parliament and which is likely to get great support in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10081	Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 14th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10082	Mr. President, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the DSS felt that one party representative who had opposition status should also enter the Board of Supervisors. This is to prevent the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina from becoming some sort of election headquarters service of a party. Why do I say that? Because we have one situation, and we had it yesterday when the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Bojan Pajtic was also the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Management Board of the Development Fund and Chairman of the Management Board of the Capital Investments Fund. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there were about 70% of the money flows in the AP Vojvodina in Mr Pajkic's hands. For a party operating in some African tyranny, it is too much, let alone for a party operating in one European country, swears on European principles, so we thought it would prevent it from being the best thing for one of the representatives of the opposition parties to be on the board of directors. In addition, I would add that we now see on the scene a strange gymnastics of blending the Vojvodina Development Bank into the fund, although ten months ago that flow of things was completely the other way around. Meanwhile, people have lost their jobs, Vojvodina Development Bank has been recapitalised several times with billions of euros and now without some real independent audit and no one who will ask there and ask to do that independent audit, the public is under the impression that it's a cover-up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10083	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Jelena Travar Miljević, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic and Jožef Shandor together submitted the 20th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank everyone and Mr. Pastor. You want a word, Mr. Pastor? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10084	I want to thank you for the opportunity that I've been here today, and I want you to have a happy New Year and that we've seen each other more than once in the next year and we're working on solving those problems that aren't in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10085	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Energy I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in connection with the search in particular on the proposals of the laws referred to in points 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the proposal of Mr. Suzana Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Master's Office Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, called for the meeting to be attended by Dejan Popović and Dejan Novaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Master of Public Debt Management Mirjana Filipović and Dejan Trifunović, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management and Aleksandra Kocić Arangelović, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Public Debt. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Katarina Rakić, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic, Olgica Batić, Ivan Karic, Milan Lapčević, Gordana Comić and Vlad. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10086	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I would say for the beginning, the same target, same distance. Late evenings and a few of us who are about to take an interest in this law. On Article 1, my colleague Donka Banović and I have submitted an amendment wishing to change the following – the Ministry prescribes closer conditions for professional competence in the performance of the tasks of the Energy Object Managers, the energy activities of the 6th Law, for which the license is required. The Energy Act in Article 20 is clear. He says – that no licence is required on energy plants that produce heat, combined heat and electricity for their own purposes. That's why the managers of these facilities don't have a professional exam and don't have training. It says the law, but when we saw what objects it was, we thought it needed to be changed. It's about schools, kindergartens, hospitals, it's about places where many kids live and stay for a long time. It's more about movies, theatres, factories and businesses. These are also places where most of the day stays a very large group of people. If you don't find Mrs. Minister completely justified, the need to increase the degree of knowledge and responsibility by getting a license for a job that works in places like this where we think you should consider possible, potential dangers and that someone has to be very professional in doing these kinds of jobs. For these reasons, we felt it was necessary to introduce a license for the jobs required here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10087	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10088	Thank you for your comment. It seems to me that you didn't understand the amendments and the amendments to the law in the best way, and you didn't see that we predicted that for all those for whom there is no need to have licenses, the ministry would further make a rule of what it takes for some handlers to have expertise, experience and knowledge. I completely agree with you that it's very important given that these are schools, hospitals, movies, etc. The law itself did not provide for a licence for them, which does not mean that as of next year 2013, when we have more serious changes and additions in some things, we have to put that part in place as something that must become an obligation to have a licence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10089	Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10090	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, I'm really glad that we have the exact same opinion of the necessity of increasing the degree of security just by someone being licensed to work. This is again a question that we are opening and that we have opened on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment by sublaws and documents that need to be adopted. I think it would be a good idea for such a thing to change in the law itself. In the sublaws it's okay to change everything else, but if in the law of the moment that we opened it, we change it, then we don't have to wait for some period and some time for which we're going to bring this sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10091	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10092	Just a brief addition. I completely agree with you. Then when we accept the third package and we have more detailed changes and additions, there will have to be that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10093	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10094	Thank you, Mr. President. What's this about? Mrs. Donka Banovic and I wanted to change Article 33 by changing one number, and I'll explain what this is about. The law provides for a period of 60 days, in which the holder of an energy permit, or consent, is required to apply for an amendment to the energy permit decision, or the consent of the competent ministry. The reasons why we submit these changes are of course changes in data, which were important for the adoption of this document called license or consent. We believe that 60 days in which this amended long period of time is due and that it is necessary to shorten this deadline to 30 days. Here are our arguments. One of the objectives of amending and supplementing this law, except for filling the legal void, which apparently existed and it was necessary for it to be completed and, as we understand it, this is all about speeding up procedures, one part acceleration and one part reduction of procedures from 27 to five and speeding up procedures. We felt that a month, or 30 days, was quite enough for those who had to submit to the resolution ministry the application of these changes, regardless of all the other circumstances that occurred. We understand that this is one area that needs a lot of paper, a lot of documents and a lot of data to collect, but if we're speeding it up, it's to the benefit of whoever filed this application, to his benefit. In that sense, he will react himself because he will receive other documentation sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10095	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10096	I have to admit, I am rigid and this ministry is. This time you were more rigid than we were. But we had to say no to this because what we saw from practice, just determining the facts, valorizing it, etc., simply can't be reduced to 30 days. That's why I'm not happy it's 60. And I'd like it to be shorter, but we left 60 days this time, because all those analyses that have to be done, etc., say it's over 40, 45, 50 days. That's the only reason, but I really wish it was shorter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10097	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10098	Dear Madam Minister, counterparts Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic suggested that the 3rd energy license holder have an obligation if he received that energy permit or consent in the earlier period, that he had an obligation within 60 days to notify the ministry of what he had done in the meantime, and that the previous position applied to those new ones who were granted the new law, to have an obligation within 30 days to report to the ministry. In this way, it was intervened that both the same deadlines and that they were the same, that no different rules apply to one and the same matter. Thank you for accepting our intervention. But I wanted a few more things, since there were a lot of misunderstandings, although there were no amendments on our part and no interventions on Article 4. We talked to the board today about this issue, but I'd like to hear from you too, since Article 4 specifies that the Ministry's intention to bring, I say, energy and permission holders into the obligation to get what they got and to realize in practice, to get...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10099	I'm sorry, but this has nothing to do with the amendment to Article 5. You know that we can discuss the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10100	If you'll let me connect...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10101	You don't have a chance, the Rules of Procedure won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10102	If you let me connect both matter and other, it'll be very useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10103	I understand, but we don't even have an amendment to Article 4. The first is on Article 3 and the next is the amendment to Article 5. No amendments to Article 4 have been submitted at all. I don't know what the Minister could say when a woman doesn't have amendments in her material to any article number four.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10104	All right. Article 5 states that the energy permit, or consent, will be withdrawn if the holder of an energy permit, or consent, does not submit a request for a local authorisation, or a building permit within six months of the date of eligibility of the energy authorisation decision, or consent. We talked about how very difficult it is in the current circumstances what bureaucratic procedures we have from various state authorities, not always, but in a number of cases it will be very difficult to respect that deadline. Why? Because in order to obtain a building permit or to apply for a local permit, some documents must be prepared previously, and these documents are as follows: an idea project, mandatory, evidence of resolved legal-imvine relations on the whole route, then, a water economy agreement, the consent of the EPS for the connection. In order for all these documents to be obtained, let's say the consent of the "Serbian State" or the consent of private owners to pass the pipeline through a specific land, it really is necessary in most cases much greater than six months. Let's see. I suppose sublegislative acts will define this closer, but I ask you to bear in mind that the work of the state authorities is sometimes quite slow and that we will have problems, that people will not be able, although they have the consent of the Ministry of Construction of a certain facility, will not be able to submit requests to obtain a local authorisation within that time, precisely for reasons that they will not receive consent from other state authorities, electricity, water industries, etc., that they can obtain all the documentation and report within six months for a local authorisation. Not to be deprived of their consent and energy licenses because of their failure, but rather to say the slowness of bureaucracy in the water industry or the EPS, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10105	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10106	A few things. First, when you read that article 5. 34a, well at point 3, then you should read it all, because of all those who read it and who watch and who listen to you. The holder of an energy permit, or agreed with it, so I now stress this part, issue a year before the date of entry into force of this law, and then this part that you comment on without this previous, within six months of the date of entry into force of this law does not apply for the launch of the procedure for obtaining a local authorisation, etc. So we took something to change so it wouldn't be exactly the way it was in the previous period. What is the position of this ministry is that we will speed up and work on all those rules and regulations to speed up procedures, so that the investor, or potential investors, will not have a problem precisely with obtaining various permits from various ministries, and I agree, public enterprises. Until we arrange for the Ministry of Energy to be the one to issue all the permits to a certain potential investor, because it is another step, we will try to speed up the process through certain documents. I believe it won't happen because, say, the EPS or anyone else didn't give an accidental or deliberate permission, to lose an energy permit or consent. Much more will have to be done in the ministry itself and in our relations with other ministries and public enterprises. This is a start to speed up procedures and reduce administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10107	The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10108	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, members of the government, the LDP wanted this amendment to clearly specify that the application for the withdrawal of an energy permit would be submitted to the government only in case the solution was reached by the ministry, and that it would be submitted to the ministry if the decision to withdraw an energy permit or consent was brought by the unit authority of local self-government. When we had a debate in principle, we pointed out that this fast-moving law has a lot of ambiguity. We did not get an answer from you, Madam Minister, to the very important question found in this article of the 34th Law, which it says - the energy license holder, i.e. the consent holder, shall take a legal or practical action with the intention to transfer the energy permit or consent to a third legal or physical person and in that case the energy permit shall be withdrawn. Our question was – do these apply to investors who borrow from a business bank where they have to be guaranteed to share? What do these words mean – a practical action? Are you going to betray them, too, to withdraw your license? Second. The manner and explanation for which you have not accepted the amendment absolutely does not stand, because in the same law in Article 2(2), you have set out in the same way as we have proposed to the amendment, so that it is decided by appeal to extend the time limit of more important energy authorisation. Then why aren't the same conditions applicable when you're withdrawing your license? What's behind this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10109	The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10110	Regarding your amendment that you have given and which we have rejected is because these things have already been laid down in the original law and that was the basic reason why your amendment has been rejected. What is the essence of changing and supplementing this energy law is just to limit investors when they get energy consent, that there is a transfer. As we have already spoken in principle, in the very changes and additions to the law, it happens that energy consent is obtained and the company is rapidly shut down, so it is transferred to another. There were various speculations, I'd say, among those who had energy consent. Our interest was to narrow it down, to keep it from coming. What I'm explaining to you right now is not about the amendment, but you mentioned it and I'm explaining it to you. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, everything has already been laid down and regulated by law, why should we add it again. For that reason, you were denied the amendment you gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10111	National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10112	You mentioned that during the earlier period there was a trade in consent and permits and I welcome your intention to limit it through the law, so that there would be no abuse. However, there are some things we need to clarify. In the previous law, there was a provision that the energy permit was inadmissible. It has now been added that consent is not communicable. The energy permit or consent, depending on which object is involved, whether over one megawatt or below one megawatt, is a document that you only need until you get a building permit. Once you get a building permit, an energy license doesn't matter. When you start building or building a facility like that, no one can forbid an investor from selling that facility. Then it's an object and it's subject to another law. More energy licenses and consent have no value and you can't stop someone from selling an object by taking away his license. He's got a building permit, he's building a facility, and his energy license doesn't have any use for it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10113	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10114	What is, once again, the newspaper of these changes and additions is that we have now raised consent to the level of the administrative act. Of course we won't take away our consent and permission from whoever did something. But whoever has the energy licenses for over three years, three plus one, as it were, and doesn't do absolutely anything, or those who have the consent that went on indefinitely and does nothing, because we have as many as you want, and Serbia has lost 260m euros in the last four years just because of these energy consent and licenses nothing has been made and built. That's the goal, to limit it now, and to have the opportunity to take away things like that when it's not working. That's all. Of course, by clear criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10115	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic together with the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic and Parliamentarian Olgica Batic submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. The government did not accept the amendments, and Olgica Batic's amendment did not come out. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has not accepted the amendments. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10116	Thank you. Dear President, the honourable representatives of the ministry, our parliamentary group has proposed that Article 6 concerning Article 56 of the Law should be deleted, where it is said that the status of the privileged producer will be able to last no more than three years from the date of adoption, i.e. to delete this existing one and to remain as it was in the previous law. I also saw that the government has submitted a certain amendment and that this deadline – one plus one year will be for wind energy – two plus one year. We talked about this on the Committee, and I thank Mr Trifunović, who explained it all to us. We think it might be too short for the realisation of the investment. We haven't had any wind parks so far. I don't think any of them have been built in the past. Does that depend on the deadline or on some other stuff? Perhaps we should also deal with what happens by the start of the deadline, let's say, what we're proposing -- three plus one year or so, in some way, to emulate this energy law with other laws, like the Law on Planning and Construction. Also, I think that we should do a little more in terms of helping local self-government, perhaps in making some master plans or making a commitment to local self-government making master plans for some locations for renewable energy sources – whether it's for wind parks, whether for mini-hydrous, whether for solar panels etc. Because certainly investment in renewable energy sources and incentives to producers of this green energy is extremely important. We all know that in areas where these producers exist, or investors in renewable energy sources, the energy force of these areas is increasing. Of course, they build infrastructure and employ certain citizens, and most importantly, we gain the sustainability of a system. In particular, we are dealing with environmental protection. Where I am from, the Čajetina municipality, it will lead to sustainable development not only of tourism, but of the whole environment where we live, so that this tourism can develop quality and best. I think the Ministry may have to pay a little more attention and help local self-government to define and specify certain provisions by the start of the deadline. We certainly believe that these renewable energy sources must be some direction in which we are developing. As Mr Skundric said on the Committee the other day – we are the energy force in Europe. Let's take advantage of those potentials we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10117	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10118	I sincerely hope that Serbia will one year and one day be an energy force. So far, Serbia is not an energy force because of various things. We're not exactly the energy-rich state. What we certainly have, these are renewable energy sources and these changes and additions of laws are, as I said, to speed up the use of renewable energy sources. Why were there no wind parks and solar and more small hydropower plants, etc? I'd say there's been a lot of administration, a lot of bureaucracy and maybe some illicit shops. That's why we're here now to amend this law in that sense. The government also respected the opinion and potential investors. We increased our amendment by one plus one, as you said, to two plus one by the wind and by the sun one plus one. What's important to mention? A potential investor before he even starts counting that time two plus one, he does the project, solves the property stuff, then gets the status, and only from that moment on does he count that time two plus one. I don't think that's a little time. We deeply believe that this will involve a little more investors, and of course, that we in the state administration and how we behave more effectively and better, so we won't be in a situation to wait for all sorts of permits, as your colleague said, for a few months. The average in Serbia for small hydropower plants was two points in the next period, and precisely because public enterprises, local self-government and other ministries were acting, I would say, in an irresponsible manner. When you mentioned local self-government, we just started a conversation with local self-government, held many meetings with representatives of over 20 local self-governments in whose territories are locations, for example, for small hydropower plants. In the first 15 days of the following month, or January next year, the ministry will issue a public call for potential investors to obtain energy licenses and consent to build small hydropower plants. I completely agree, there must be a lot more co-operation at all levels to make this investor truly work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10119	National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10120	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 164. As we started working day and went on and we'll probably end up that way. I listened carefully when you read and mentioned Mrs Katarina Rakic's amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. However, in the government's opinion there is no opinion on the amendment. We don't know what the government's position on this amendment is. It is that we have the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Regional Development and Trade. However, that is simply not enough. Why some amendments are given an opinion, some amendments are not given. We need to establish one practice for the future. Do we even need that government opinion institute? That's the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10121	You're absolutely right. I will ask the minister to return to that, only to give an opinion on this amendment to Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10122	The Committee has accepted this amendment. I'm sorry I didn't make the point especially. The Ministry and I accept, and the government isn't sitting today, they'll be sitting tomorrow, and on behalf of the Government, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10123	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic, for your helpful suggestion. MP Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10124	Thank you. I just wanted to thank you for that answer and to comment that I hope that we will be able to use these renewable energy potentials in the next period with as little bureaucracy as you have said, and that we will try to imitate other laws in this direction because it is very important for us to use renewable energy sources, and maybe it was an opportunity when we changed the Law on Planning and Construction the other day to do something about it, but I guess that's the turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10125	Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10126	A brief comment on what you mentioned was that the average deadline for obtaining paper for building buildings in the energy sector is 2, four years. It's probably an initial capsule that makes all this change to get investors to work faster. Maybe even because of their unscheduledness, all of this was. As I am sure that we agree that there are many gaps and irregularities in the work of public enterprises and other entities concerned with this matter, and you have announced that there will be new tenders or calls for new locations, it is important for all of us to make as much use of the potentials of green energy that we have to build these objects as possible in the shortest possible procedure. When making sublegal acts, invite all those involved in the process, the people of the EPS "Serbia" and work together on these sublegal acts. Provide for each subject the exact time it takes to issue a certain agreement, because you submit a request to the "Serbishum" and then they say – we will process it and go to the next board of directors. The board of directors doesn't ambush for six months and we have problems. People invested money and made project documentation. We bought the land and then they wait to get an agreement that's one in a row. When we specify the responsibility and deadline for each of the entities involved in that chain, then we will really help the people who want to invest in this area. This will develop all of Serbia's energy and economy and increase employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10127	Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10128	I completely agree with you. Everything we do we call those who in any way participate in granting permits to get to what's called a built-up little hydropower plant. Almost 27 permits are necessary for that. Our plan next year is to bring it down to a one-digit number. The plan is from five to seven. I have to tell you that of all the investors who came and complained about the serious problems that two companies have is dominant in that, the "Serbian" and "Serbian" even though there are others who give licenses, but these are two companies where there is a problem in getting permits. That's what we're trying to solve together with other ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10129	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10130	The President-in-Office, respected minister, co-workers and colleagues, preparing for this amendment and the debate on the Energy Act, we had to draw out a lot of different papers, something to conjecture. Given the developments my speech will not be in the spirit of the amendments I have submitted, and given that we have a correction by the government and by the competent ministry, most of the things I have prepared cannot be presented to you, because it is now in line with the government's amendment and I think we need to make sure that when we talk about renewable and non-renewable resources, practically the only non-renewable resource is time and in this sense, it is important to us when we work to respect ourselves. Sometimes there can be problems. It may be a disagreement, but bear in mind that when the opposition submits amendments that are meaningful, well-intentioned, some time we're not, we're saving time and we can work fast. Very often, traveling through Serbia, we see the fields that are burning up and the bras that are burning. We throw a lot of biomass in Serbia. Biomass has great potential for at least some research. What was crucial today in the debate of the solar power plant and wind generators. We felt that this procedure 3 plus 1 could stay and that in any case it was better than what was the first point of the proposal. However, this proposal of 2 years plus 1 is quite acceptable. Just illustrations, that we stayed for 12 months after obtaining a building permit and obtaining the temporary status of a privileged producer, I'm talking about a potential investor who is serious and intends to invest, not to trade and resell, that for wind power plants around 100 megawatts should complete all the preparatory work. 33 turbines should be ordered. I assume your decision was influenced by the analysis of the IFC and their opinion. The procedure could have lasted from two years and two months to three years and two months. I urge us to make an effort to speed up the procedure, but to help public enterprises. In the past, I worked in a water company. People aren't always capable enough. They don't have enough personnel, even though the government is too busy in the water industry with the staff. That is why it often happens that instead of a month of issuing a permit, it takes three or four months. It might be a task for the ministry to help or encourage local self-government and public enterprises to do it a little faster and that we can change the law. We're left with the 27% to reach. I hope, though we disagree, you always accept our suggestions when they are well-intentioned and meaningful. We offer as much help as possible. We think that what we are about to do when we talk about regulations and acts that we are about to bring, it might be good for someone from the Committee on Environmental Protection to participate, perhaps someone from Parliament, or to make these things a little more accessible to the public. So much, I really don't need to say everything we've prepared. We've been really trying very hard to amend the Energy Act. We think it's important. We think investment in renewable energy sources is very important, first of all because I come from one area that is a mining base and thermal potential. It's important to reduce the effects on the environment. It's important that we work on energy efficiency. You're probably already doing those studies. Maybe if we could use a little more power rationally, maybe we wouldn't have to build a new thermal power plant, but we could simply save ourselves a new space. Education is important, and talking to citizens is important. I happen to go around the house and turn off the lights. It's important to explain to people why rational energy use is important, why electricity saving is important. When we talk about electricity being cheap or not having a high enough price, we should also talk about that aspect of environmental protection and the problems that citizens of Obrenovac, Lazarets, Kostorevac, Povorec, to think about when we enjoy some Zlatibor or Kopalnik having a lot of children with bronchitis, with asthma, living in Obrenovac, Lazarovac, Kostolvac, Firefighter and trying to reduce negative effects. It's the ministry's task. We're here to help, because we seem to have a common goal. Ideological differences between us are normal, but I hope we can overcome that and do it faster and more intensively in the next period. I really think that maybe you could include, in a way, someone from parliament, through a committee or through other institutes, to help, and maybe we can correct or warn you. In this way, I think we can get better quality acts and work faster, let the permits be released faster, and make energy cleaner in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10131	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10132	Help is always welcome. The Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection addressed parliament with the desire to work with us in the field of energy, but also in the field of environmental protection, we get from the board in some way, to say the people who would work with us when we work the laws. When you mentioned energy efficiency, it prepares itself, i.e. in a public debate, the energy efficiency law. I believe we will discuss it here together and try to really turn to what is a rational use of energy. We didn't do that much. I can't do this on my own and I can't do it on my own. So we must do this together, that is, this country and that it plays an important role in raising energy efficiency. As for the biomass you mentioned, from the full potential of renewable energy, Serbia has 55% in biomass. Our desire is, or our task is to make the most of this mass and get the heat out of it. One of the things we've already started is certainly replacing input fuel with heat, i.e. that heats start using bio mass and become cogeneration plants and increase that energy efficiency and become 90% efficient, by producing electricity and heat energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10133	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10134	We think it's the ministry and government's obligation to help local self-government. When we talk about cogeneration, we can talk about mini farms, dairys or slaughterhouses that can, through cogeneration, produce electricity and heat. Green Serbia had an interesting stands called the other night – and after the coal of Lazarec. We need to talk about what happens when we leave coal exploitation and what happens when that energy we had from coal can no longer be used. That is why we must start to think strategically, not year after year or within our mandate, to see what happens in ten, twenty and thirty years. What is it like to prepare for renewable energy sources to replace, what about energy plantations in the soils of the dumps, in the territory of the wasteland, and do they have a perspective to replace coal in some plants, because sooner or later they will be drained of these resources? We think that this issue is important for Serbia, and for Green Serbia it is a matter of first-class importance. We think investing in the green economy and green energy is very important. That's why... (President: Mr. Karic, please stick to the subject. Thank you. Excuse me, what's the topic? Maybe Mr. Ostojic can explain it to me. The amendment, the green energy, is that right? The Energy Act... (President: Please stick to the topic. Nothing, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10135	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10136	I'll talk about the amendment. They're all a little tired and there's no reason to raise tension like this. I wanted to rely on what Mr. Karic and the minister were talking about. Energy efficiency is very important. I think the most important steps are the first steps and examples we give. Please, Mrs. Kovac, give us a first example and that if we work this late, not always very effectively, you can give through the service of the Assembly some sort of instruction that these flabby big lights, not in this room, but in this building, at least a little dim or dim. If that's not possible, then at least on that flabby big tree that exists in the lobby. She's shining now. I passed a little while, we grew up, and when we're done with this, we'll be happy at our New Year's Eve homes. There's no need for that tree to shine so much. Let's give this first example in saving energy, and then it'll be easier for miners all over Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10137	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Lapčević. The resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10138	I simply want to thank Mrs. Minister and her associates for trying what the DSS parliamentary group, me and Mrs. Banovic wrote on their behalf, but also to thank all my colleagues who have very patiently listened to this story about green energy and environmental protection. I'm very glad they welcomed the last words this lively. In that name, I would also like to thank Mrs. Chairman for letting me say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10139	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gero, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10140	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. So, Article 164. The government's opinion does not exist on this amendment to Article 10. Obviously, there is one systemic error in this government when it is due to give an opinion, so I expect this government to get a little serious when co-operated with parliament and not repeat this kind of mistake in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10141	Thank you. We will also provide an opinion on this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10142	This amendment is similar to that which we have submitted or almost the same, as regards the retroactiveness of Article 10. In the context of the government, I read the explanation of the rejection of amendments to the amendment of Mrs. Comic, since it is not on our amendment. There is one sentence that reads – it is exclusively the right of the legislator to prescribe deadlines, conditions and the way in which the proceedings started before this law enters into force. Because of the viewers, the member says that the procedures that have begun until the day of entry into force of this law, and he will likely take place on Sunday, the day after the vote, or Saturday, tomorrow. So procedures under the old law will end according to this. We think it's retroactiveness. What you're saying is that a legislator can prescribe deadlines to end proceedings under the old law, there are two problems. Retroactivity is a constitutional category, it would be as if you were judging someone for a crime for which a 10-year sentence is prescribed, and in the meantime, the legislator, since he has the right to decide how these proceedings end, says – now the act is valid for 20 years. On the other hand, let's not get into legal pins, this kind of member and the possibility that the legislator is changing the rules of the game is certainly not in the interest of attracting investors into this sector, because it simply introduces legal uncertainty. With these changes, you change a lot of things, including the length of the licence, etc. Now you say – whoever had the old law permit for so much and so much, now according to the new one will be as the new one prescribed. I think he's hiding behind this, as he's probably hiding behind those terms of withdrawal, that he's going to take away, who's doing some legal work or a fact store to transfer, that there's an intention that everyone who wants to invest in is actually coming to your counter. That's what it looks like, maybe I'm wrong. Anyway, this amendment is, I'm not going to say an ugly word, but it's not adequately rejected, or an explanation of rejection seems to me that it's not appropriate for what I've quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10143	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10144	First, after our principle debate two days ago, I again asked for the opinion of the government's legislation, although I had to have that opinion the moment we gave amendments to the Energy Act to the government. Then, and yesterday, I got completely that it's absolutely not retroactive, but I'm going to explain it one more time, because you said it here at the beginning – because of the viewers, so you read it all. That means next. Someone who's got an energy license and hasn't done it and has three plus one, as it's already written under the existing law, and doesn't do anything at all, and next year that energy license expires on him, that would mean what you're looking for, then, by the old law, let him have three more plus one. This means that this law would become operational in 2016, and we want to just force the investor to, if he's already got permission or consent, start building and working. In that sense, if, let's say, his energy license expires next year, and we see that he hasn't done anything in three plus a year, we're going to have to take that license away from him after new amendments and additions to this law. That's the essence of that 10th article that's being talked about, and there's really no room for retroactivity, but a desire to become more efficient and faster. I gotta tell you, investors didn't complain about it. They were complaining about that one plus one for the wind and the sun, so we changed it because all the real life facts say we can't put one year into the wind, so we increased it. I hope I've explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10145	Thank you. Mr. Stay, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10146	Just for a little while. I believe you that the current, existing investors have not objected, but I am sure that those who intend to come, and I do not think the real ones have come yet, with this law and with this kind of legal practice in the country in which they are to come, will not be happy. We'll see what happens. Ours was to say, and yours were to defend. You have a majority, so you can vote what you're up to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10147	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10148	Somehow I never like to end up like that – you have most, so you can do whatever you want. No, the interest was really from what we saw going on in the past years, to get the investor to start working, not because of investors, but because of us, because of Serbia. If we've been giving licenses for six years and no one's doing anything, to repeat, 128 consents and 63 energy permits, and as a state, we lose only to building 260m euros, that's one third of one big energy facility, then something's wrong, obviously, in the way the permits were given. Now we've tried for the first time to ask the investor to do the part that's important, and we're going to be a little more operational and efficient in reducing red tape, as I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10149	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10150	I would like to refer to the speech of my dear colleague, Mr Ostojic, with the intention not to replicate, nor to defend the minister and this amendment, but to give a concrete example on the Energy Committee, what happened to the law that was in force. I personally had opportunities, when I was in business, I wasn't a folk MP, I was lobbying for large investors, for wind parks, for energy from the sun and for people who had these so-called so-called. Infinite permits. So, all they had were licenses. What was that about? They acquired one greater capital from those permits and then asked for investors. You can ask investors for five years, ten years, so you don't give a chance to others who want to invest. I believe that this law is real and that it is good and that we have dealt with it on the board, and I am not afraid that it will be done as it says. So, if someone started building, and they're running out of time, it's normal for him to extend that deadline, but he keeps his license and trade with that permit, it reminds me of the earlier business, the first business after the Soviet Union's collapse, that was about like this -- I have money, you have bananas, you want bananas, you're chasing to find bananas, and I'm going to find money. So I think this is okay and it will meet the criteria and not drive the investors away. On the contrary, it will encourage real investors to realize that the government is serious, that the state is serious and that they have a real chance of investing and implementing their projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10151	Thank you. Mr. Ostović, did you want a replica or an amendment? (Zoran Ostojić: Replica. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10152	It's the second Karic who mentioned my name in 15 minutes, at the first I felt silent. (President: I asked you about the order, because there is another reported before you, which is why I asked you? The Minister's finished well. You shouldn't have called. I didn't say it took forever to keep the permits of those who had the old law. I just made an observation about this member's potential retroactiveness. After all, their licenses will expire if they haven't done anything under the old law. I just voiced my suspicion that such a legal practice and such a change of law and possible retroactivity, we'll see if someone challenges this member in the Constitutional Court for that reason, future investors can be discouraged. That's all I said. I didn't say the past law was perfect, so it should stay and all this is wrong. We also said in the principle debate that the intention to fix the law is clear, but we also said that we don't understand things, not just us MPs, we don't deal with investments in the energy sector, but also those we talked to, and that's what they do. Nothing more and nothing less. Thanks for not talking about the Greens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10153	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10154	Let me explain something. Consent never stands out under the current law, which, I hope, applies, one more day. So you get consent and it lasts forever. According to changes and additions, the agreement now takes three years, plus one as an energy license. One more thing we wanted to change, which is that we have more discretionary rights of the minister than clear criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10155	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10156	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. I'll talk about the Greens, and I can talk about genetically modified organisms, even if you didn't like it, and I can do it on the agenda, depending on how much you like it. You can also warn someone, except me, of what they're getting, etc. When we talk about permits, it's very important to say in this section about the environmental impact assessment that some investors shared projects so that they don't get out of 10 megawatts and then basically have one project that's 28 or 37 megawatts, and they've divided it into three or four parts and got everything they needed in local self-government. They didn't have an impact study on birds or bats. It's very important for the Greens, the impact on the environment and the impact on nature, and it can't all be capitalism, I guess it's both human health and nature. In this sense, there are cases, perhaps we should deal with some of the permits or quasi-volts that are being issued, which someone tried to issue in local self-government, reducing projects below 10, and practically when you add these are projects above 30 and they are unique projects. It might be a good idea to deal with these permits too, and not to mention that two different projects, if they're too close, if one is below 10 megawatts and is not doing an assessment, this other one that's relying on that previous project has to do an assessment because it's too close to an existing facility. There are cases, I think, in Serbia that it is not always respected. This has not only happened in the last few months, but in the last few years and it might be good for you to pay attention to those permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10157	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support the government's position. Investors should be forced to invest, use the permits they got, because that's some kind of national good, and that license can't be a deed forever, without you building anything, that you're dealing with reselling a company that has that license. So, just to protect the environment, to use as little coal as possible, and as much renewable energy as possible. The government is right, investors should be brought to the knowledge of the rights, i.e. they should be brought to an investment they were running for. In some other countries, I think the government was too mild, except for the loss of a permit, large fines are prescribed because the state loses, not only in energy, loses both in money and loses at the use of resources. In many countries, a large fine has been prescribed in addition to the loss of a permit because the investor does not build what he was given the permit for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10159	The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10160	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, would not answer for a word, but since this committee that I am chairing is in charge of the amendments, under Article 10, I just wanted to give a little explanation to Mr Ostojic. What concerns the date of entry into force of this law will end with the provisions of the new law. According to the Law on Liabilities, that's how we got the interpretation from several sides, it's practically not about the already started procedure. Therefore, practically those legal entities that have entered the procurement of documents will continue to behave according to a certain procedure. This article refers to new economic operators entering a new procedure. After all, if I were to rely on the story of environmental protection, if we go back a little bit, environmental impact assessments that were being taught in the past ministry lasted 230 days on average. So, of course, there is a good will of the ministry that, starting with energy, and finally and the environment, all these deadlines are shortened and we simply get one better investment environment. All these amendments, which the government eventually adopted and proposed, are heading in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10161	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10162	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 11, actually refers to the time when the law will come into force. The promoter said the law should enter into force the next day after the law was passed. We believe there is no need for this measure and it is quite right to take effect on the eighth day following the publication of the "Official Messenger". We are fully aware that this law leads us to introduce into the legal system many things that have not been there so far, that amending and supplementing the laws should contribute to the introduction of order into the field of issuing and abolishing energy permits and consent, but we really do not feel that there is a need to rush in this way, because it is not the usual thing to do first. We think that accelerations are quite enough in terms of reducing procedures, in terms of cutting procedures, in terms of what you want to force bureaucracy to do its job effectively. The other day when I was speaking, or asking questions to the Government, I set one example that at the Ministry of Trade, say, recording is in two days, instead of 30, as so far there have been words, but that was one specific case, and I would like it not to be specific and not to be at the level of the world record. As far as we're concerned, what you've brought into this law is sufficient to speed things up. In an explanation why you did not accept this amendment, you state that this is because there are legal gaps. We're perfectly okay with it, there are, you've introduced them. Furthermore, it will contribute to the faster adoption of sublegal acts. I repeat, we all agreed on the board and here today, it's a very important area and you promised us then on the board that you would make sure that a package of laws comes before the MPs, plus a sublegal act. We haven't experienced this before, and it would be very good to experience it. We invite you to keep your promise in that sense. On the other hand, I have to commend what I didn't know until this moment when we spoke in principle, that an action plan was being made for renewable energy sources. That's very important. It's been missing for a long time. It shows the path we want to go as a state, where we define what kind of future we choose for ourselves. I see that they are renewable energy sources. That's great news for me. But that, as far as we're concerned, is quite enough and there's no need to make a precedent now, so the law that's already under emergency procedure has come to us in a very accelerated procedure and we're really all afraid if we're going to be able to do one of these important areas in such a way and it's enough that this law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger, because we're absolutely sure that these seven days you're not going to bring in any sublegal act, you're certainly not going to do anything dramatic. Keep your head down. I'll be careful to see if any sublaws come out in seven days. Since it's also New Year's in the meantime, I doubt it will be. I understand if you haven't accepted the amendment, although I don't think there's really any need to make precedents, especially with such important laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10163	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10164	I'm for things to be done parallelly. So, we have prepared, believe it or not, but four stimulating regulations, and they're waiting for consent that we haven't given in almost two months, precisely because we wanted to make changes and amendments to the law. So for this reason, we want the law to come into force immediately, because we're going to say something on January 4th when we have the next government to discuss new stimulating regulations for renewable energy sources. So, there's a lot of work going on in this ministry, you'll be surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10165	The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10166	The esteemed chairman, a respected lady minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, might have been good enough for me to consider a proposal working in Kyrgyzstan some 12 years ago to build 400 megawatt hydropower with Russian companies. It was an investment contract that was an extremely sharp and serious contract and I would like to rely on the discussion of my dear colleague, Mr. Marijan Rističević. So, every investment contract involves investors and privileges but also great obligations. There, I remember perfectly in the contract it said, that if the investment doesn't end within the time limit there are sanctions, and that's the planned profit, the planned profit to which the investor has to pay the fine. It's all over the world logical and normal. So I can say that these laws are very liberal and phenomenal. They're great for investors, and you think about it, and we still have to show them that we know what we're doing. And that discretionary right that you're saying you want to lift it, I don't think you should do it. You must leave the possibility always that you can react to unconscious investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10167	Anyone else want a word? Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda, this is a search in particular – a proposal for the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to use DEUTSCHE BANK AG LONDON under the responsibility of the public enterprise "Serbiagas" the new now performs the realization of the project Southern Stream. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10168	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. You, Madam Minister, have said that you have done practically all the jobs that are related to the start of applying the new Energy Act. I thought since there was some free time left, you'd be staying for this next debate. We begin the debate on loans for "Srbigas", I would like you to be present for the debate, regardless of the full respect for Mrs Grubjesic, who is there.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10169	Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10170	How can I refuse such a call? I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10171	Thank you. Mr. Lapčević, you wanted to do business?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10172	I asked for a word while you were talking about whether there was anyone else, and you've already concluded the debate as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10173	You weren't in the system, I'm not sitting by the screen alone, so you probably checked in late, but I'll give you my word anyway. Wait, I've closed the search. You really weren't in the system. Really, here's my confirmation. I'm really sorry. Since we're moving on, I can't go back on that subject. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10174	If I cross two minutes, you'll refuse my authority. So you don't accept our amendment and we think our amendment should be accepted. The explanation says it is not accepted because the Budget Law envisions that this 170m-euro guarantee be given for liquid liquidity. There is, then, a sentence like this – the observation that the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad is not a good businessman and that the burden of new borrowings on citizens is not correct and does not see the overall situation in which the company is mentioned. How do you know it's not true? Let's say we had a review of the DRI. It was supposed to be done at the end of November for that review of "Serbiagas" and it's gone. Why? Because "Serbigas" has delayed the completion of the audit by using all legal means, complaints and objections not to arrive today in this debate, or to not arrive to discuss these guarantees. Secondly, the other night there at the villa "Blocheljka" when the state summit was discussing the platform and what for, the public enterprise "Srbigas" was also being discussed. I remember that the economy and finance minister said he would ask for "Serbiagas" to present a clear plan to address the problems they face. Since we have more creative amendments on problems, I will when I defend those other amendments. So we don't have an audit of the state auditor, we don't have a clear plan, and we all know that the firm is in trouble, and then you're asking us to give a guarantee of 170m euros for liquid liquidity. I don't think it can stand in the way of the amendment's rejection that it's not true that "Srbigas" is not a good businessman and that the overall situation is not seen if someone criticises "Srbigas". I'm sorry, these two facts, these two things, the revision and the plan to get out of the crisis or the plan to reform the company, are necessary in order for someone to be safe, not to be bit by a conscience, to be in charge of future generations. Therefore, the explanation is not good, and our amendment is good. So I urge you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10175	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10176	I'm reporting for the amendment because I'm one of the applicants for the amendment. It's no secret why the LDP submits these amendments. I think our policy in this area is very consistent, that it has been that way since the LDP is a parliamentary party. I first have one big problem with such bill proposals, or guarantees for loans. From this law, or credit agreement you're looking for, you can't see what the credit is for. It is said to be a credit for realisation, i.e. participation in the South Stream project. What exactly is the obligation of "Serbigas" to be fulfilled from this extremely unfavourable loan. The credit is particularly unfavourable because the position is marketable and each other's "Srbiagas" desperate and therefore "Srbiagas" as a company on a permanent edge of liquidity, i.e. liquidity must be debted under such conditions. In order to make it clear to the taxpayers in this country, before the new year itself, this loan will be paid under the following conditions – 30m euros, 6.20% plus a three-month euro-fish, meaning, under the current conditions, the annual interest will be 6.4%. It is clear that in the coming years, as the euro-fish grows, this interest will significantly exceed 7% probably, very quickly. Publicly, in recent weeks and months, very different information has appeared about what is currently the position, or obligation of the company "Srbigas" in the South Stream project. Is this about the reconciliation of those old obligations for that 2000 gas or is it about the participation of "Serbiagas" in a joint company or some other obligations? It's just not clear. Tens of them, hundreds of projects, debts, loss-covering and the Serbian loan, continue to last, and we're so confused about that. So that's one of the reasons we submitted this amendment. I expect the minister to start by saying what is the basic reason for this loan and for the other one for which the guarantee is sought, it is an even more unfavourable loan and then we can simply hold a debate about what "Srbigas" is like for us and whether it is worth borrowing citizens on 28-29 December, or imposing on them a future payment of an amount that is not 200m euros, that is 200m euros plus this amount of interest on the period on which the loans are taken. You're the one who's been passing the bill, all the governments have been doing it for the last few years. They say funds will be provided in the budget, and the 2012 budget provides for guarantees to be issued. Of course, you know, in one case or another, it's not alive, it's not money. This money in a year, two, three when the state instead of debt instead of "Srbigas" will start paying it off, actually become a public debt. It's a delayed fact of these guarantees, which you've been issuing for years and everyone in this room and those who aren't here right now, they know it's unsustainable and that it's a disastrous concept of public sector management, public enterprises, state-owned enterprises. I do not insist at all and will not insist on this debate on any differences that exist within the framework of your ruling coalition, with regard to "Serbiagas" or any other company. I don't think it's fair that we're doing this right now. I just want to know how these announcements will eventually come true, which you all insist on from January 1st, that the company that is three days before January 1st will have to work differently, that we are giving another 200m euros, that from January 1st, it will no longer have to be subject to the burden of state and taxpayers and that it will be able to serve its own obligations. It seems absolutely unrealistic to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10177	Thank you. The word has a vice president, Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10178	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear People's MPs, first of all, I will repeat what I have said and when there has been a debate on the principle of giving guarantees, and that is that for the last time this year we are giving, that is, parliament will approve guarantees for maintaining the current liquidity. As you could see in the 2013 budget, and after six years, you had time to look at the budget in peace for a month. No funds are provided for the maintenance of liquid liquidity. As for giving a guarantee for the participation of "Srbigas", it is actually a guarantee for the participation of "Serbiagas" in the joint project "South Stream", and you could see the same from this bill. As far as I am informed, the restructuring plan of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" will be notified in January, and you will also be detailed, as the decision will be made by the restoring ministry and the process itself will also be detailed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10179	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10180	I'm sorry, Mrs Grubjesic, but this is not a detailed explanation enough why I insisted so much that the minister who deals with it much more and more in detail than you do, give answers for which total costs of activities under the joint project are these 30m euros? I'm interested in this moment, not to mention that in translation of this term in English, there is even a mistake in how the project "South Stream" is marked, and so much is spoken of in our public as a project of the century. What's going on right now? There is a joint company, is that so, Mrs Milanovic, who is called "South Stream Serbia", is that right? It's registered in Switzerland and Gunca, because there are the most favourable regulations. What's in that company? What did the Russian side bring in, what did our side bring in? "Srbigas" has some other loans that are related to the implementation of the South Stream project. We've already issued guarantees on them. I think we're already paying some of them. How that money that gets into "Srbigas", which is a guarantee that it will end up fulfilling its commitments under the South Stream project, while at the same time, such a company loses enormously every year, which we have to cover always new and new responsibilities. As you know, the means to guarantee, i.e. guaranteeing, is not foreseen in the 2013 budget, does not mean much in itself. The 2012 Budget Act, to remind you, has been rebalanced. All our budgets in the past, I don't know how many years have been rebalanced. You tell me what's more real, that "Srbigas" continues to work like this, that it continues to make losses or even slightly less, that at some point it has to service the commitments it has on old loans and when it comes before the government and parliament, that you will say – there is no guarantee. I'm sorry, but I don't think that's gonna happen. This would mean a collapse of the whole system and many other problems in Serbia. That's why I don't think that's real. We'll talk about financial reports, believe me, it would be easier for us to agree to this responsibility if we had a revised financial report, at least for 2011. I have before me the basic text of that financial report. I'm sorry, I see in it the costs of sponsorship and advertising of, I don't know, a million euros in 2011, and in 2010, almost 2.5m euros. I don't want to guarantee it, as a taxpayer for loans from such a company.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10181	Thank you. Unfortunately, Minister Mihajlovic cannot answer you, since she is not authorized for this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10182	A member of the government can always answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10183	He can't. Only one who is a representative of the government, who has been authorized by the government at the point of the agenda that is under way. The word is made by the MP Ivan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10184	It's totally unacceptable for us to have "Serbiagas" in this year for the last month second time in charge of this amount of money. A month ago, this Assembly ratified a loan to 190m euros, also for liquid liquidity, is now for an additional 170m, plus 30m for an investment to start, the South Stream, for this we don't have a problem, it is necessary and normal, but for the current liquidity, in two months to be in charge of 360m euros is really more than this country and Serbiaagas can handle. It is totally unacceptable to approve this kind of loan for liquid liquidity without having any parameters on what previous loans were used for, which were also in 2010 and in 2011. For these four years, the Serbian Parliament has ratified a total of four loans laws for "Srbigas" mainly for the current liquidity of nearly 600m euros. You can't find any financial reports on the "Serbiagas" site about how he did "Serbiagas" in 2009, 2010, even in 2008, the last one since 2007. The state audit went into "Serbigas" and started working. She's been working for six months, and until today, we don't have a report. According to the chief auditor, because of the obstruction in "Srbigas" itself, you said in January there would be a restructuring of "Srbigas", but just in case, before the review report and before the restructuring of "Srbigas", let's approve another 170m euros. Isn't that a black hole that'll swallow everything? The most irresponsible behavior of sponsorship, advertising, 300 miracles can be found there, all under the veil of secrets. No one lives knows what money is being spent in "Serbiagas", but just in case the state of Serbia gives a 360m-euro subsidy at the end of this year. The other day you said there wouldn't be a subsidy to public enterprises in the next budget, so here's when we give 360 million allegedly ratified, a ratification of the loan contract, in fact a subsidy, then there's no need for the next year "Srbigas" to have subsidies, because this is a clean subsidy. And it's clear to the sparrows that "Serbiagas" won't be able to bring this back, from nothing. Where's he gonna come back from? In so many debts, in so many dues in bad business, it's impossible to repay this amount of credit on this kind of interest. They're significant, over 7%-8% will be interest only on this loan, the previous ones are also unfavourable. So this will bring back all citizens of Serbia. Mrs. Grubeshic, if you don't mind, let's talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10185	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10186	Well, wouldn't it be bad if you followed me, since I'm asking some questions, I don't know how much you can track Mrs. Kovac and me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10187	I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10188	You're a very intelligent woman, but I doubt if the information comes from two sides, they can be well worked out. So for me, which does not have the honour of "Serbigas" delivering gas to Nis or for two-thirds of Serbian citizens, who do not have gas installations, do not use that gas, it is absolutely unacceptable that we return these loans to taxpayers' money, because it is certain that "Srbigas" will not return it. Always covering that the low price of gas used mainly by those living in Vojvodina territory, partly in Belgrade's territory, is to cover losses by giving loans to liquid liquidity, in fact covering bad business. When it is clear that these are losses based on spent gas, or lower prices than the price we pay at the Hungarian border, what are the losses based on the acquisition of Agroziv, based on the acquisition of Azota Pancevo, based on irrational business, grant of sponsorships, representations, advertising and everything else, then we can talk about whether and how much it takes to cover the loss of "Srbijagas" through loans. This kind of flat-rate giving of this kind of money is totally unacceptable to the DS. We, of course, can't support this until we see the report and see what the money is spent on and until someone is responsible for it. Mrs. Mihajlovic has been working intensively with "Serbigas" and his business for the past few years. She's been calling all kinds of media and her director and in general "Srbigas" as a company. She promised that she would do everything she could to examine to the point of what was going on in "Serbiagas", that the public of Serbia would know. Here, it's been six months. We know that coalition is an awkward thing, but, you know, when you give a word and you have responsibility for that spoken word, then you should try something. This Bajatovic is not stronger than the entire coalition, that we all have to work for him? This is not just about Bajatovic, but it is simply a symptom that the Serbian Parliament is exclusively dealing with the ratifications of "Serbiagas", and that we have no public information about what these money is spent on, without clear criteria of how money has been spent, without clear responsibility what has been going on in recent years there. After all, the deputy director of Srbigas was arrested in the Azotar affair. What happens when the cards are completely opened? Pull this ratification. When we get the audit report, when the restructuring goes through, and the purpose and justification of giving new loan guarantees is assessed, then we can also talk about maybe supporting something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10189	Thank you. National MP Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10190	I don't know how else to formulate this, so let's just say I broke the Rules of Procedure. So this was a nice gesture from the minister. I forgot about this element, that she can't speak, and I don't think it's fair that she's in the O.R., that we're keeping her here, that she can't answer us. I can't participate in such a debate, to direct some kind of a call to you, and that you can't answer me. It's just not right, so I'm asking you to release the minister of that presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10191	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10192	Madam Chairman, Mrs Grubjesic, Ms. outgoing Minister Mihajlovic, leaves the hall, not leaving like this, although the opposition always wants you to be outgoing, but you are still the current minister, first of all, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, and especially the citizens of Kruševec I come from, we discussed 600m-euro savings in the morning. Despite the DS amendment, to show us where those 600m euros will go, we did not get that answer. Now we see where 600m euros of savings will go -- on loans and interest, to a new debt. The other day, I was called by my Kruševljani and they say that just before the New Year of "Serbiagas" they received a wonderful New Year card and this card says this: according to the statement by the Director-General of the New Year since 16 December 2012, the CEO of "Srbigas" Novi Sad has made a decision to increase the price of gas by 10%. That Decision shall apply from 1 January 2013. Mrs Grubeshic, I have great respect for you, I love you. We've been sitting here in Parliament for five years, and I have no intention at all of doing this with you. You are doing a great job of European integration, but there are my colleagues from the SNS, who wanted to burn themselves with that same gasoline and gas when they found that Serbia was failing and that every day we became increasingly in debt and as soon as they took responsibility for managing this country, there would be no credit, no debt. Here, for this gentleman who throws, I'll translate again. That decision has been implemented since 1 January 2013, and it reads: "We have made a decision to increase the price of gas by 10%. Happy New Year, citizens of Serbia." You know, it's a "happy New Year" for your wallets, but not for Serbian citizens' wallets. This tree here that you've defaced, it's very symbolic of you, because that's what we say we've painted the tree with this government as it is. I'm asking you why you're in charge. Do you want me to read you everything you said at press conferences over the past two years? Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Come on. ) Here, to satisfy Mr. Arsic's curiosity, I'll only have two press conferences. On December 18th 2011, Mrs. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic just spoke. "Serbia is in enormous debt. It's due at a pace that's terrifying. We believe this leads Serbia to ruin. We demand an election call. "Afterwards Tomislav Nikolic demanded the same thing, and he sat down on the Styrofoam. But, you know what, you don't run a state by sitting on a Styrofoam when you're in opposition, and when you're in power, then you offer Serbian citizens to sit on a Styrofoam to keep them warm. They won't be warmer, believe me. You owe the country enormously now with no basis whatsoever. You claimed you had a solution to all the problems. Just so you can come and get ten billion euros from abroad. That is Tomislav Nikolic, a candidate for Serbia's president. The SNS policy programme is directly opposite of DS. Here you say -- there will be ten billion direct foreign investments. Out of ten billion, there's only 10% left to collect gas. I have to tell you, I don't know how you're going to spend this money on or what you're going to spend it on, nor do I believe that money will be spent on the house. I expected you to move these 600m euros, how much you started the Public Procurement Act, and you ended it with two billion euros, to move these loans and these credit debts, so we can avoid them in the following year. You could do well through the budget projection to say - we saved 600m euros here, it takes 200m euros in credit to the Serbians. When we subtract these 200 from these 600, there will be 400m euros left for other loans, since we have loans here for JAT as well. I would also like to talk about it, because I see that the president of Serbia flew to Rio de Janeiro and there is a meeting with the Croatian President and Prime Minister, and they deny it afterwards. I'll also have to vote against those loans, because I'm interested in what you're spending it on. So, to conclude, you do not continue to be in charge of Serbia, but you do it beyond any rule, past all those promises you made at press conferences. In doing so, we sell government bonds at a rate of 5.2% and we owe ourselves an 8% interest. Here, let me ask any of you here, without speaking directly, there's a businessman among you, a businessman, let's make a deal like this, that you give me 1,000 euros per 5.2%, to lend me, and then the next day you borrow 2,000 euros from my colleague Radeta at 8%? Would you behave like that when it comes to your wallet? Of course you wouldn't, but when it comes to the Serbian citizens' wallet, you can act like that because you have no responsibility for this country, according to its budget, according to its citizens, towards the future of this country. That's not what I'm saying. That's what these loans say and the way you're in charge. If you think it's okay now, you get up and replicate it, but whether it's okay or not, it says the number of your deputies in the benches, because people went home, so people don't ask them, so what were you talking about in the campaign, and now you're sitting there in the bench and you're in debt? Don't look at me and my MP group. I'm enough for you all here for as long as you are. There's no need for anyone else to replicate and explain to you how badly you're in charge and misbehaved to this country. There, I'm waiting for other JAT loans, so I'm going to keep telling you. Once again, it is regrettable how you congratulated the citizens of Kruševac on the New Year with the 10% gas collection and Serbia's 200m-euro debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10193	Thank you. The next reported MP is Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10194	I'll speak as my experience speaks. First of all, when it comes to "Serbiagas", you all know, I don't know how many citizens, why the situation is like this in "Serbiagas". Dear colleague, you're right when you ask to know what money is spent on. I support that apriora. We all need to know, we need to know the citizens, I'm even ready to write a letter to the government, as an MP for the Serbian Parliament. Maybe even ask my colleagues for support, do a few billboards, traffic lights downtown in all major cities, and see how public debt changes, how consumption goes, how investments go, etc. There's something else here, it'll be useful and it'll be done. If I don't do it, one of you will or someone will do it for us, as usual, from the EU. When it comes to "Srbigas" that the loan that has already been granted, which we will vote and approve, is not to be further in debt, it is not only to "Srbigas" but to all public enterprises. I can't have public enterprises dealing with non-profit businesses. They have to deal with their basic business. This is the answer to the question of how did "Serbigas" get so in debt, saving the stranglers, you risk sinking. Therefore, we now have this situation and I am sorry that Mr. Bajatovic is not here, with whom I spoke several times on the subject. What could he have done when his company turned to him, say, any company that was supposed to go to the docks, the workers to run out of work, to go to the streets? Then he jumped in to companies like that, bought them or invested in them. My proposal is that no public enterprise should be involved in non-profit business. When it comes to colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, you also speak quite correctly. You don't need such cruel words, that you're enough for all of us, normally, when you're criticizing it's true. Mr. Srdjan, I'm sorry to speak to you directly, but I wanted to explain this more for the sake of the people if they listen and watch us. It's about the next business. When you talk about business, what's it about? There's a business that can take interest and 20% and there's a business that can't take interest even 1%. That's one difference. The other difference is when you say what this government has done for the past 100 days. Please take this seriously, me as a businessman. I'm looking at the government as I would now look at my company. You can't ask for results in Serbia in 100 days, forget it. It can be sought by America, it can be sought by highly developed European states. They can ask for results in 100 days. We, like Serbia who has already been over-indebted and you will agree that the debt was created long before this government... Otherwise, when you say that we owe the country billions, it's our good intentions and our desire for investors to come. I personally attended a conversation by President Tomislav Nikolic in Moscow with the first deputy prime minister of the Russian government, Mr Rogozin, who said – our goal is not to lend you credit, our goal is to send investors and be your partners. There are great opportunities in both energy and rail and roads. Let's welcome this new year with optimism. Don't just bomb citizens with pessimistic statements. Believe me, this is going to be a good situation. It takes time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10195	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10196	First of all, let's make a deal about what this sitting alone is gonna look like. We're talking about the law on the guarantee of a loan for the participation of "Srbigas" in the South Stream project. At the very beginning, we went too far, and you, Mrs. Kovac, allow it. I have spoken very carefully, and I have made sure that my exposure concerns only the South Stream, not the other problems that we will open with later laws. If those rules don't apply, then we'll all talk about everything and I don't think that's good. This was just a matter of business, and now I'm reporting for Mr. Karic's replica. I don't mind, Mr. Karic, being partners with the Russian side, but, you see, that's the problem. Excuse me, did you say anything? [[Marko Atlagic, from the place: In the name of what is the replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10197	Please don't throw it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10198	Then please take care of who throws out of the SNS bench, so I don't have to do it, because then maybe I'm wrong and I think it's Mr. Risticevic, and maybe Professor Atlagic. Maybe, but we'll talk about it later, you and I, Mr. Atlagic. This is about the situation and the LDP points to more than four years. I cannot agree with what is today as an argument by Mr Milivojevic, because he also voted for entry and such a project – South Stream. You're not personally, but your party and the MP club that came out of the SRS, you supported this project. We have been clear since the beginning, we do not think that an equal partnership has been established between the Serbian and Russian sides in the South Stream project, because Serbia has a minority participation of 49% in the project and this is the financial report "Srbigas" which is our partner for the Serbian side in the project. You can say that Russia is the dominant country in any case, that we depend on it, that we can't import gas from the other side and I can agree on that. But, before us and around us are the experiences of other countries, which are not even in such friendly relations with Russia, as you claim to be Serbia and that it is developing. Similarly, the previous government claimed that there was no ambiguity. These other countries are equal partners in the South Stream project. Why does Serbia have weaker or worse treatment? Speaking of companies and public enterprises should only deal with their own business and not with what's on the side, it is not true that Mr. Bajatovic was meeting poor workers, it is not his fault. It's the government's fault, she made him take over the company every time, so "Serbiagas" became co-owner of "Informatics", which has nothing to do with the basic activity of the "Serbiagas". Meanwhile, Agroliv, to close some business that hasn't been good since the beginning, etc. Also, they made Sogaz with the Russian side, and it has nothing to do with the basic activity of Srbiagas. Why did it get into that? I'm sorry, since he's arguing with Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10199	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Karic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10200	Dear and dear fellow, there is no need for us to speak this harshly because it is all in the interest of our citizens and our country. When we talk about South Stream, about Russia, whether 51 or 49, the one that gives a bigger investment, everywhere in the world, it's normal that he's also a bigger co-owner. There was a intention to take business to OMV or Hungarian MOL. It was very serious, these are two companies that have gas stations in Serbia, etc. However, if you have in mind that these two same companies are both buying gas and oil at Gazprom and Gazprom, it is more logical that Serbia enters with a direct producer and owner who is 70% of the gas and oil resources in the world. I think we're also 30% owners, if we know we're using it, that's the new Danube we're going to have in Serbia. I wanted to tell you so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10201	Mr. Djuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10202	It's not a disputed jaundice. I'll speak a little more quietly. You're not the one who caused the heat, let me tell you right away. I repeat, it is not a controversial participation in a joint project with Russia. There's a very big difference, you're a man from work, and you know there's a huge difference between 50 and 50, 51 to 49. At 49, you have a rather independent position. Not true, some other countries have a 50-50 ratio, and they were neither MOL nor OMV never equal players on that market, and there was no such thing as a real danger. The problem here is that through this increased participation of Russia, and in fact a political price has been paid for those political ideas we thought we would get from Russia, some satisfaction in Kosovo politics. It didn't happen, not to get into it now, we're in big trouble. Why aren't we in a partnership relationship, say, at the Jugorosgas company? We have 25% there, and the Russian side has 75%. I'd say at this point, this Jugorosgas company, for example, owes money to Srbiagas, so that's one of the reasons why he's in this kind of trouble. Of course, it's not a crucial reason. There are huge debts and problems of "Serbiagas" and that's not the key reason. If you say that it deals exclusively or almost exclusively with basic activity, what is it founded for, which is why public enterprises are actually the most important, it's the activity of the general public interest entrusted to them and because of which these companies have huge privileges, they also have "Srbigas", then I don't see what he said and the idea of making "Sogas" to deal with insurance, to deal with chickens, pâtétas, etc.? For this someone must bear political responsibility, Mr. Karic, those who pushed "Serbiagas" into such a kind of project. Which is why I insist today so much on it, which of these people here and these government people will take responsibility when "Serbiagas" continues to operate on these principles that are absolutely unsustainable? How much do you know of gas companies in Europe, or the world, that do business with loss?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10203	Time. Mr. Milivoevich, it's your turn for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10204	I'm supposed to get double time for replicas, because I've been called multiple times by various MPs, but that's two minutes enough, thank you. Mrs. Grubjesic, once again, I'm very uncomfortable with you sitting here right now. I'd like the same as Mr. Djuric who told Mrs. Mihajlovic, if you were free, I say the same thing to you, but I have no right to do so. I'm sorry, Mr. Guric. He asked Mrs. Mihajlovic to free herself of the session's obligations and listen to this debate. Personally, I think you have better things to do and you're much more useful on those tasks that you do very well. But again, I have someone to talk to in this room. So, a few things. First of all, don't try to ingest our debate. Whether we are tough or unsustainable, that is, some of Serbia's citizens, because the topic is also very harsh and intense. I don't think I scare Serbian citizens, but they're even less afraid of Mr. Djuric, because they're much more afraid of postmen with new prices than I am of Mr. Djuric. When they see me, they know who I am, I'm an MP. When they see Mr. Djuric, they know who he is, he's an MP, and he's from the opposition. I see there are two approaches to this borrowing. The first is an analysis of the justification and purpose of the credit arrangement for the construction, i.e. to maintain the South Stream, and the second is due to current operations. On the other hand, I would like to talk again about the other aspect of these loans, through an aspect of election and pre-election promises -- who promised loans, and who promised that Serbia would not be in debt at all. I must remind you again of just a few of your words: "Serbia must not owe another single cent. I repeat, each euro of debt is a step in Serbia's sunflower." It was said at a SNS conference in December 2012, said Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. Last time I said, when there was a debate in principle – an axe that falls into honey, the wood no longer cuts. But even the fingers that fall into honey can't hold that ax. Our people say well – you can't pick honey without licking your fingers. (President: Time. ) For the end of the question – why are you now in charge of Serbia when you claimed in the election campaign that you would not do so because it is no longer your political practice?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10205	The word has the People's MP Dragomir Karic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10206	I'll just take a minute. Normally, I have no intention of disciplining my fellow MPs here, nor do I believe that's how Mr Đuric understood it, and probably neither do you. There's only one thing I'd like to remind you of. The deal with Gazprom is next – Serbia has 49% and Russia has 51%. That's one thing. So we didn't have an alternative. If you're saying we didn't negotiate with either OMV or MOL, and there were negotiations, I know exactly, and I lobbyed for it to be with the Russian company. Remember, Serbia has a golden action. Serbia can stop any process and force its partner to resolve the issue by strategic consensus. It's very important that you know, for your information.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10207	Mr. Djuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10208	Very short. To remind people, it wasn't the only job, it was the sale of NIS and the construction contract, or the maintenance of Banatski Dvor. In all three jobs, Serbia has a maximum of 49%, has some guaranteed rights as a minority shareholder. I'm afraid this will raise the question, say, whether the past few weeks have been working or if the status of the NIS company -- Gazpromjeft -- has been changed, and may the small door have been reduced to the rights of the Republic of Serbia as co-owner? I'm afraid we're going through this process, but it's not a direct topic of the agenda right now, and I don't want to abuse the procedure. Let the Russian side or some Serbian side try to elect what other countries had. Other countries were 50 - 50, 50 - 50, and did not make a deal with MOL. Bulgaria didn't do the MOL job. Or, let's do it on the other side, as some sort of compensation. How much money does a year go to the paper business of Jugoros Gas? You know that this company is an absolutely unnecessary middleman in the business. I'd have some understanding that it's also a 50-50 company, that Serbia and Russia, or "Srbigas" and "Gazprom" split into 50% of the commission they take, which is sometimes up to 5%. That might be okay if the Russian side insists on doing business like that. This is about being a minority partner and losing a few million dollars every year. It's not small money for "Srbigas." No money that is particularly linked to this kind of goods and services provided to citizens is small. That's all I insist on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10209	I'd break this line, if that's okay with you. All right, just for a little while, 'cause we've lost a little bit of the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10210	If you'll excuse me for a second. I fully support you, my dear colleague, that it could have been torn up and it could have been 50-50. But, please, the question is, who negotiated? Who was trading? It's a store. It's never safe for the Russians. If we're an important partner, and we are, and we're this highway that needs to go through the south flow, I guarantee and I know, I've negotiated with them, they'd never bargain with Serbia, and it couldn't change the relationship with KIM, and we'd get something in that field, if we gave in 1%, and in the meantime, we'd get a gold action. It's like you're 50%, you know. So it could, but it doesn't apply to this government. It may refer to individual parties in this government, but to this government in general, it certainly doesn't. I think I've made that clear, for the sake of the citizens. Otherwise, I'm ready whenever you have time, not to burden the company, we can tomorrow, we can whenever you want to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10211	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10212	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what to call this anymore. I really think I'm gonna have to ask you to forgive us all their mistakes. Shall I say why? This moaning here over the debts of "Serbigas" and other debts, it looks to me like when someone kills a man, so tomorrow they come to a funeral, so they whine and declare their condolences to make themselves innocent and cover their tracks. Let's agree that the debt of the country in June, of course, is the debt of "Serbia", that the public debt, the debt of the economy and the population was more than 45 billion euros. We can agree on that. Can we agree that in 2013 we need to serve a public debt of three billion euros in order to settle the debt that was made? Do we agree that it only goes 800m euros for interest? Have we been left with a deficit in July that should have been two billion euros by the end of the year? Is this all worth more than 50 billion euros in debt, not only in "Serbiagas", but in all public enterprises, economic debt, population debt? Is "Serbiagas", say, in 2009, who then ruled? Did the company have a loss of over 95m euros? Do we agree that the debt in "Serbigas" was inherited? I think we can agree. Can we agree that the warm season is almost not started in Serbia, in the true sense of that word? We didn't make debts in the Serbs, and if they were made during this government, they were made, say, at 0.5%. Were the losses of all public enterprises in 2010 one billion euros? Is that what we did? Who ruled in that period? Who made those debts? We know who inherited them, the current government. Did the NIS in 2008 have a 90m-euro loss? Did the NIS in 2011 earn 400m euros? When you take that minus 90 plus 400, how does someone make 400 million euros in a year? The same NIS, two refineries, the same pumps, and someone, while it was a public enterprise, made a 90m-euro debt. Where is the work of the 500m euros? Now someone's had to tell us how someone emptied the citizens' pockets. That's not true. They lustrated, not just political opponents, they just tried, they spat on farmers from the fields, factory workers, they destroyed the economy, they destroyed the agriculture, they destroyed the industry. We didn't empty citizens' wallets. You emptied them, filling the pockets of your party champions and your party friends. You in the party have millionaires, not us. Your party president is a billionaire, not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10213	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10214	I'll wait for another chance, and I'll read what one event looked like on August 19, 2005, when one politician led a donkey into the government building and gave the donkey his name. That's not what I'm gonna say right now. That's what I'm gonna say when that guy sits here, and you're in a coalition with him now. Then I'll remind you. About whose leader got what, so my leader didn't change the Roast Patriarchy for a two-ar apartment, and then complained that there was no carpet to buy for the apartment, because there was no carpet for the sports hall. That's what your leader in the election campaign did back then, not mine. It wasn't my leader who traded Gracanica for a two-ar apartment, it was your leader who did it. So before you cut the forest in other people's eyes, remove the log from your eye, because you are too hard to catch the heavy burden of accusing others, and you are very easy to dismiss the burden of self-indiction. If you think that the political life of Serbia began the day you entered politics, you are gravely mistaken. You entered politics with people who didn't hang out in the goblet until yesterday, but were very active, not when Serbia's economy was destroyed, but when people's lives in Serbia were destroyed. That's where you always keep in mind when you say you're replicating me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10215	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to answer some nonsense that is often spoken here, but when it comes to why we're in charge, people say, this hand is empty, and there's nothing in this one. Why is that a condition? Because, let's say, they certainly wouldn't have raised their loans if it hadn't been for 300 million in the bank. I'm sure we wouldn't be in debt if it wasn't for the Bank of Vojvodina being robbed along with Agrobank. I'm sure we wouldn't be in debt if we didn't have to return the loans you made. Surely the citizens of Serbia wouldn't be afraid of postage blue uniforms because it brings them bills, if you hadn't left them without a job. As far as these loans are concerned, and if you're going to control the spending, you will. We guarantee you that. We won't have to find out how these loans are spent thanks to the police and the D.A.'s office. Many of them today seem afraid of blue uniforms in Serbia, but it is not post office, especially from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10217	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10218	Article 27, although at least it's your fault, but you can stop this one, I must say, circus. Please make it impossible for the debate to be conducted in this way and in this atmosphere. This is humiliating. MPs earn, talk about everything else, not the subject of the agenda. We've heard this a million times on both sides. If there's any interest in having a discussion on terms of borrowing, specific problems and ways to solve these problems, then let's lead the debate. If it will continue in this direction, if your intention is that only the replica on one side or the other continue to accuse yourself, LDP is the least of the problems. I'll withdraw all LDP amendments. We can finish the session right now and we really don't have to drag ourselves or the citizens of Serbia through this kind of humiliation anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10219	Thank you. You're absolutely right, Mr. Guric. I ask all MPs to really get back on the subject. I know we're all tired, but we're also all aware that we should end these agenda points today. To that end, I ask you only to talk about the subject of the agenda. Don't you dare me, in practice, to warn anyone, but you respect me, as I respect you. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10220	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this address to me and the invitation to the 1990s is very disturbing. Since I had a dozen victims in my father's and mother's family back in the '90s, my memory of it evoked very strong experiences and very difficult memories. I was not in the government of the 1990s, and I already said that the DS had ministers in the Government of Slobodan Milosevic, both in the Republic and in the federal... (President: Mr. Risticevic, please... I'll be right back. I didn't go to Pale to eat ox. I wasn't guilty of anything. At the time, I founded the Civil Union, and they ate ox at the Palace and can confirm it by counterpart Zoran Ostojic. It's not my fault for the '90s, and my family got hurt, and now someone who could subjectively be responsible for it is transferring it to me. I don't remember taking him before the government. I'm sorry, I forgot.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10221	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10222	When did I eat ox at the Palace? I wasn't at the Palace, least of all with the ox. Let's go back. People, we're talking about the debt, of 230 million, of the companies that owe at the moment 750 million euros. We're talking about giving guarantees with these amendments at the next 230 million point. This assembly has given Srbiagas 530 million so far. So with this, Serbiaagas will owe 970 million, and guarantees will increase from 530 to over 750m euros. Let go of what happened before. What are you guys arguing about? The previous government, same loans. Where did this 530 million come from? What you are accusing them now, those in charge. Now you're going the same way. Do I have to tell you, you're just like them? Don't criticize them. After all, it's normal that you're alike, when half the same, only the big party has changed. Are we going to talk about whether this is meaningful or not, not who ate and when the ox was at the Palace and who had as many victims in the family? In that sense, let's go back and work on the agenda. We have amendments, you say – they refuse, we say – they should accept. It's your own fault we're working at this hour under these conditions and you're going to vote tomorrow. The whole time Mr. Babic is asking you to speed up the discussion, we want to talk on the agenda, and then Mr. Karic comes forward to defend the energy agreement, talking about the gold action, which is not true. There's no gold action. (President: Time. I'm an authorised representative. Excuse me, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10223	I gave you my word about the replica, because I have multiple candidates. That's why I'm always asking if you're replicating or talking about the amendment. The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10224	I heard here from the majority's representatives that they are against giving further guarantees to "Srbiagas" and that they are criticising that "Serbiagas" has been engaged in non-profit business, so I expect that such a position will also be in the vote and that you will not support this debt related to current liquidity, and this shooting between one and the other, the previous government without any criteria has given guarantees that "Srbigas" is in charge of more than 570m euros. The government provides guarantees in this month for another 360m euros. So, for both of us, you're completely irresponsible and you're doing the same thing, and you're going to be carrying the same responsibility when "Srbiagas" comes to the end, and the budget has to cover those debts, i.e. to repay the loans. It's clear that "Serbigas" won't be able to repay these loans, so the budget will have to pay it back. As far as we're concerned, the representatives and previous governments who participated in the government and these today will bear the exact same responsibility for this. What I am interested in, I suppose, is that Mrs Grubjesic should answer me, here in the light of the Law on Indemnity for South Stream, there is no telling what money will be spent on, how much it will be built with these 30m euros, which is the share, until we get there, etc. We don't have a single analysis of what and whether or not this borrowing will be justified, how much it will cost us, and how much more money it takes to build the South Stream. As far as the DSS is concerned, we support every direct investment task. The South Stream, regardless of all the disputes which in some cases have its actual justification, South Stream is a useful thing for Serbia, and certainly Serbia will first step up its energy security, secondly, to ensure a longer-term supply of cheaper gas to its fellow citizens, thirdly, will be able to build energy facilities due to a much larger flow of gas through its territory, on the fourth side, will include not so small amounts of gas transit money through Serbia. Through Serbia, the southern flow will run about 410km in length. The planned fees that Serbia needs to collect from transit, in those years when there is full use of South Stream, will be over $200m a year, so when all this is subdued, it's a very positive thing for Serbia and every responsibility in that sense is justified for us, but we need to know exactly how much we're going to build it with these 30m euros. What I'd like to ask you, I suppose you can't give me that answer, but that's why it took someone far more focused on this matter -- who's in front of the Serbian state to plan the development of South Stream, the route and all the energy facilities that will be of strategic importance to Serbia? The development strategy brought by the ministry envisions building several power plants that will use South Stream gas. For this, the ministry requested and ordered studies to be done, where these gas plants should be and what capacity, which power. The US company, called Vole Persons, worked for the city of Nis, and the ministry paid for the study, which showed, based on analysis, that a 600 megawatt power plant, 450 megawatts of electricity and 150 megawatts of heat power should be built in Nis, and this entered into Serbia's energy development strategy. "Srbigas" which is the main negotiator and in this case will be, the company that is ahead of Serbia will implement the South Stream project, negotiating the route and negotiating with "Gasprom" where these energy facilities, or power plants, will show that there will be seven – Subotica, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, where it shows a force of 160 megawatts for Nis, 100 megawatts of electricity and 60 megawatts of heat power, based on which parameters? Who has the right to change something that is the strategy of the Ministry of Energy and for which the Ministry of Energy has ordered the physibilities of the study and paid for that physibility study and obtained relevant data that the power plant needs to be made and which power. Does this suddenly change energy plans and a strategy for energy development, depriving how much power a power plant will be, while, of course, in Novi Sad, it is envisaged that such a power plant will be 300 megawatts of electricity and 200 megawatts of heat power? Nis has 270 thousand inhabitants, Novi Sad has 300 thousand inhabitants. How is it possible that the plant is profitable in Novi Sad, which is five times larger than in Nis? Either it's underrated or it's overrated. I think this congregation and the public deserve answers to these questions. The Democratic Party of Serbia will, however, support the task of building the South Stream, because it is a multiple benefit for Serbia, but all other matters of duty, especially for liquid liquidity which is a waste of money in a well, is something that is absolutely unacceptable for us, until non-correspondence is separated, until it examines how much additional losses were made in Agroziv, in "Informatica", in the "Azotari Panchevo" who has been there, how much unlawful benefits there have been from these jobs and who is responsible for that. We really won't support it, and I call on you not to support it, because if you criticized why the previous government led by the DS without any criteria gave approval that "Serbiagas" owed to no one and didn't account for it, then don't do it now either.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10225	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10226	The Honorable Chairman, I simply cannot believe that the predecessors in one part were not warned when the insult occurred, even becoming some MPs and nervous. I know it's late and usually in these hours they can mention names or they're seeing things. As for this theme of borrowing "Srbigas", just to remind me from some data that only four years from the previous government in public enterprises, four and a half billion are missing. Where's the money? We can ask that question. Furthermore, in four years before the previous government, 7.6 billion were in debt. Where's the money? You see why we're in charge, when one of the MPs from one of the opposition parties asked, etc. At the beginning of this term of office, Serbia was at a turning point – either a complete collapse or a halt to the further collapse of the state? I truly personally believe that if this government manages to save four years from collapse, because of what the predecessors have done, it should be given the Nobel Prize. Let me say about these four and a half billion companies through public enterprises. The MPs and the current government did not owe that money. Those four and a half billion, you know where they are? Those who are in jail today, at Dulic's, at Dragin's, at Agrobank's, etc. So the money was poured out of the citizens' pockets into individual pockets through public companies. It's a normal thing to be in charge of saving the country now. I just can't believe one of the MPs is criticizing. It is true that the statements were individual representatives of the current majority that they would not be in debt. If it hadn't been for these 7.6 billion or 4.5 billion debts through public enterprises, you wouldn't be in debt, people, 16.7 billion public debt and internal 50 billion, if you had watched the National Bank report by 2030. They destroyed our children, our future. Thank you very much. I simply cannot believe, and probably not the citizens of Serbia, that individual DS MPs can, especially Mr Milivojevic, discuss and not mention Dragin, not mention Dulic, so if you want the Sutanovac and many others to come to the agenda. I'm sorry about these intrusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10227	The word is Mr. Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10228	I thought you were performing here on behalf of the SNS. But here you want to be the self-proclaimed spokesman of some prosecutor's office or I don't know which other judicial institutions. But before you start judging others, look around and look at your ranks. When you do that and when you count it, when you see the state of your budget in 1999 and 2000, then you become a lecturer and give lectures. You know, today it's easy to teach both savages and lowlifes and ignorants, but the hardest thing to do is to teach one who is ignorant and who, forgetting his past, wants to be a teacher to others, especially better than himself. If someone is guilty of DS, let the judicial institutions determine it, don't judge it, especially in this House don't do it and take over the role of prosecutors and judges. Again, before they offer you a laurels to wash your hands like a sawmill, before you feel invited here to share justice in this country, turn around and look at what you did during the previous authorities during the 1990s. When you find that out, when you see what a broken economy you have left behind and a broken budget, when it comes to the citizens of Serbia and you say only one word so foreign to you -- sorry, sorry, sorry, Serbian citizens, then I'll believe that you are some new people, some new politicians, some new Progressive Party. Until then, you were just an extension of the same policy that has made the greatest destruction in Serbia's history since its beginning and sold in grants what generations have worked hard, fought, killed, bled and ward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10229	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything the previous speaker said, I feel no responsibility or moral or political or any other kind, because when there was a change in government in 2000, the debt in the Republic of Serbia's budget was far less than today, much smaller than in August 2012. Also, in no part of my exposure, I did not mention that I was judging and suing someone, but I was referring to the state authorities and the police. I would also like to thank him because he is one of the best SNS MPs in my opinion. Just keep him talking like this, we'll transfer 50% of the popularity to the citizens in a few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10231	Thank you. Mr. Milivoevich, please, it's too late, but I'm still focused on running the Assembly. Since you mentioned the SNS, Mr Arsic was granted the right to replica on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. I'm still closing the lines since we're away from the subject. Mr. Kasalovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10232	I would like to say that the SPS supports the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to accept the amendment to the draft law on the granting of a guarantee after borrowing, because we are having a debate based above all on the provisions of the Law on Public Debt and also the Law on Budget for 2012, which clearly determines and foresees borrowings for "Serbia" and for others subject to this debate. It seems to me that even when the debate under the Budget Law was similar arguments and attitudes, they appear today. However, one view that does not stand is that the same government's borrowing policy, whose prime minister is Ivica Dacic and the government whose prime minister was Mirko Cvetkovic. That's just not true. It is not true because the 2013 budget clearly defines the government's policy when it comes to guaranteeing. It is also clear that in 2013 the State guarantee will no longer be paid for the borrowing of public undertakings for liquid liquidity, but exclusively for capital investments. I would like to say that this is the SPS policy and that in the prime minister's exhibition, clearly defined objectives, comparative advantages and priorities in development, including energy. I am glad that some political parties recognize both the activity of both the state and the "Srbigas" when it comes to long-term energy stability and what the South Stream Project supports, which supports the start of the underground warehouse in Banatski Dvor, which guarantees additional stability and which will vote for such proposals, but I do not understand why it was not then voted for one such budget which was also thrifty and which predicted that more liquid liquidity is not credited and not funded. For the truth's sake, it needs to be repeated so that the citizens know. On the other hand, it is also avoided to say that "Srbigas" is in a position to get gas at the price of 47 dinars today and that it is sold at 35 dinars. There is no wizard, no businessman, nor does Dusan Bajatovic, who in such a situation can function in a profitable way. The loss is at the start of 12 dinars and only for the fourth quarter of this year will the loss on this basis amount to 75m euros. We have heard and we expect that according to the budget plan, there is no longer any borrowing for liquid liquidity. It is understood that this policy, when it comes to maintaining social peace through the price of gas, must produce certain decisions on further and future functioning and "Srbigas" and other public enterprises. I also said in the principle debate that it was working and we heard from the minister, there are several ways to solve these problems, there are popular and unpopular, there are opportunities to negotiate something. We simply expect that to happen, and that will happen, because simply, if anyone suspects, simply look at the 2013 Budget Act that we adopted. There is no more of it and it is certain that such a policy will not be conducted in 2013. So Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's policy, when it comes to the borrowing of public enterprises, is not the same. I would really like certain parties to recognise this in the budget as also responsible parties and parties that support all efforts in terms of energy stability to support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10233	Mr. Atlagic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10234	Article 104 has been injured where wrongly interpreted exposure is listed among other things. I think Mr. Milivojevic really misread it, maybe he should have warned you too. I didn't judge anyone and tell them it was a verdict, I was just finding out what the fact is, which all citizens know who's currently being arrested. I have no idea I'm judging. So just one more sentence on South Stream. The South Stream is the biggest security and energy achievement in 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10235	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt Article 104 since Article 104(4) allows me to decide who has the right to reply. National MP Bojan Djuric answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10236	First it's safe and not safe, the university professor would have to know, but that's less important. Mr. Kasalovic, I'll take your word for it if you take over from your side some political obligation. If he gives up the concept you are talking about today and if there are guarantees for Serbia, for covering the current liquidity in 2013, will you resign at the end of that year in the position of the MP? I offer you such an offer, since you are confident, as long as you so heartily defend that attitude, I believe you will accept it. The second thing, today is the 28th of December almost 29th. You claim to be discussing Serbiaagas restructuring models, and when will you finish them? Until Tuesday. If you do not make them in the first 30 days and 31 days of January, the loss will already be nearly 20m euros, so much about a monthly loss of Serbiaagas. You say the import price is 47 and the sales are 35. Is the solution to the gas? How much longer will they get the gas? If the 12 dinar collection is 47 and Serbia will be zero, and from what will it repay the loans of Serbiaagas it has taken so far? Or will the gas add up to 50, 60 dinars, what will it cost? Third question. Why don't you throw out a mediator or at least make sure that Serbia saves that difference from a few million dollars each year that goes to the Russian side. What have you done so far to change the functioning of Serbiaagas? I think it's a very simple question. I am not accusing all the problems of Serbiaagas or the SPS or its director-general. I think I've spoken very clearly about it in the past few weeks or months. I'm accusing a policy that was wrong in the previous period, and in the same way it's wrong now. I don't know what you think, what your party president thinks is the current prime minister, but I watched very carefully last night the interview of the President of the Republic who spoke again about public enterprises having to perform their social functions. I do not know what the President of the Republic is doing at a meeting where it decides on the functioning of public enterprises and services prices, or gas prices. I think it's an exit from the framework of the Constitution, but when the master of management was already there, he could also learn that social peace cannot be preserved by the price being below the market, while not giving guarantees for new loans in 2013, as you announce Mr. Kasalovic. Which of these models are you going to define yourself for? Either you will safeguard social peace and cover the losses of new loans, or there will be no new loans, but then the price will be market plus the amount needed to service these enormous loans that you have all taken together in the previous years? As security is said, so is the Holy Sava, not the Holy Sava.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10237	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Zoran Kasalovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10238	Just for a little while. I did not announce the government's policy is defined in the 2013 Budget Law - no guarantees are provided for liquid liquidity. Is that true? That's right. So there's no need to announce. I don't understand why it's not good now and why you're criticizing a government that's looking for a solution. The government is looking for a solution and will find a solution. There won't be any debts. When you call for responsibility, then I'll accept it when you call others for a spoken word, that sometimes there's no 7%, and then there's 7%, and then they'll capitalize, so they won't capitalize. And not to talk about other topics that have been triggered, so we haven't talked about it. I am convinced that in 2013 the Government will endure this way and with this policy and that at the end of the year we will talk in exactly this way and that I will be right. One of the solutions you mentioned is to provide the real price of gas, it's not controversial. However, there are other solutions, there is also a modification that negotiates a slightly better purchase price or modifying those two methods, or already another solution that I don't want to talk about at this point. But I want to tell you that I am not announcing anything, but the 2013 Budget Law is a defined policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose Prime Minister Ivica Dacic is in charge of future public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10239	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10240	You were equally convinced, Mr. Kasalovic, that there would be no new duties even a year ago. I think it's now somewhere in this time of year that the 2012 budget has been adopted. Was the basic text of the 2012 budget intended to issue this guarantee at 170m euros? It wasn't planned, and then you adopted the rebalancing over the year. I am saying that I doubt that you will also adopt the rebalancing for the 2013 budget and that there will be a guarantee again. How are you going to charge, how are you going to solve this problem? Serbia owes many but also requires many of them. Is that right? It's not exactly true that he's only asking citizens who are in a difficult situation. It also requires a large number of social and state-owned enterprises. It seems to me that the claim from Galenika AD is about 280 million dinars, so let's round it up to 2.5 million euros. It means he's gonna pay Galenika back that debt he's got. The next item of the agenda is the guarantee for Galenika AD, and the third one is for JAT, which probably also owes everyone around it. How are you suddenly going to solve all this? There will be no more guarantees, no more loans, etc. In the end, it's fairer, maybe cheaper, if we were directly in charge of selling bonds, we'd pay at least less interest than this. This is a fake. He is not the primary debtor of Serbia, so the state will appear as someone who pays in an exceptional situation. You know they'll pay the state like they pay each time or they'll take a new loan to refinance, so we'll give a guarantee for that loan. I didn't want to mention it, but it's cynical every time in the reasonings of these laws you mention that there is a regressive right of the state in relation to the company to which it is given. When the state exercised that regressive right. Come on, give me a more serious case. Then it's fairer for the state to take credit for the South Stream right away, then for the liquidity, for whatever you want. Right now, interest is a little over 5%, that's the situation. That's more favourable than this 7%-8%, by which you're in debt and it doesn't ultimately matter if it's above the line or below the line. Mirko Cvetkovic has been trying for years to convince us that when something is below the line, it is not a debt. It's all a debt at the end. Then at least let's stop pretending once, draw a line and see what we do next. What you're doing right now isn't drawing a line. Three hundred million euros you give them in the last two months of 2012 and you convince us that with the same director, the same way of business, the coalition she has appointed as the director of "The Railways" of Serbia, "Srbigas" will become a profitable enterprise in 2013, or "Gallenika", which will likely be the subject of the next law, or JAT Airways, which will be the third law. He won't, Mr. Kasalovich. I can tell you otherwise what is not made of and from what, but it is not appropriate to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10241	Thank you. The word has Mr. Kasalovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10242	Very briefly, without wanting to continue to participate in this kind of controversy, the budget rebalancing has not been adopted due to the guarantee of the borrowing of "Serbiagas" or any other public enterprise. The rebalancing was simply a reflection of the government's policy in 2012 without being able to react more significantly at that time, and you know that there was also a need to predict even profits for individual businesses, which were not envisaged by the budget plan. That way, she just couldn't finish her business year. There were more reasons for this rebalancing not based on it. The only thing you and we can agree on is that you are also criticizing this policy, not expressing personal criticism towards management and business, but simply towards such policy. I'm telling you, such a policy has made for discontinuity. You have the right to suspect as an opposition and to criticise, and I am telling you that I am convinced that there has been discrimination and that it will be proven by the work of this government in 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10243	Thank you. The word is Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10244	If half the government is the same, we'll see that, but when it comes to LDP, there's continuity. When you were in the last government looking for guarantees for "Serbiagas," we were saying the same thing. There's no reason not to speak differently now, we're still in 2012 and we're talking about 2012. We were against the budget, we explained why, among other things, and because of the guaranteed guarantees. They came to the agenda of this guarantee and the continuity is to be against, but we argue – against. It explains that our amendment is rejected, in order to avoid the company being in a situation where it cannot meet its obligations, which would cause additional burden on the liquidity of the company. This sentence was explained and passed and the last time and the next time, and every time you gave guarantees and until we got to 530m euros without today's guarantee. So it's the same, which is why we said it has continuity. You claim, well, next year won't be, but now this is continuity. The new government, and continuity, exactly. The Liberal Democratic Party, you say, personally does not attack the management of "Serbiagas". How can I tell you, a man who says you should be in debt because it is then managed by higher capital, a man who said that this public debt of Serbia is nothing if the social product was 100 billion euros, really contributed to economic science. But let's do it if we're decent, so we don't go personally, although we certainly don't think about management very well, just to quote Zorana Mihajlovic, here, doesn't say LDP, she regularly said that "Srbigas" is in a difficult financial situation, because from the moment that Dusan Bajatovic became director, the value of the company's capital has been reduced by 40%. She said there was an established fear, and I'd say there's absolute certainty that the Serbian debt will become public. She also said that she, Minister Mihajlovic Milanovic, had hired Bajatovic on the family and party lines of more than 200 people. That's not what the LDP, the current minister who doesn't defend these SNS guarantees, said. So we say that we cannot trust this government, so we say that this government continues the continuity of the country's borrowing policy, as well as the previous government, undisputedly, has put us in charge once, because it was unable to implement essential reforms in this country. That's why we say it's the continuity of politics. I'm sorry, I'll repeat that Cvetkovic's government owed the country for four years, about six billion euros. In that government were also the Socialists, Dusan Bajatovic in that government was also the director of "Srbiagas", and G 17 plus, Rasim Ljajic, PUPS, not to list everything now, and this government for the past five or six months, with this borrowing, and it will be a debt, it is clear to all, because the company that owes a billion euros, it owes more than it is worth. In these five, six months with these guarantees, this government has almost reached three billion. She's gone over two and a half billion, be assured. In that sense, we're against this, and that's why we're asking for your understanding, that you don't go that way, if you're already claiming that you've made a discontinuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10245	Thank you. The word is Vice President Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10246	I really do have the understanding, as I've always had of opposition, since I've been sitting in this House for eight years, but I don't know if all the MPs have looked at the amendments submitted by the LDP. There are 28 identical amendments – deleted, and 28 identical explanations. I don't think it's a good parliamentary practice, it's done, it's made identical amendments, identical explanations, but at least I expected you to be a little different, because I've seen this in some previous years, especially these amendments -- is deleted. As the party who has endured such amendments has passed, you know it better than I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10247	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, there are three minutes left for your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10248	I don't have a problem with what you're talking about, Mrs. Grubeshic. You know, when there's at least a little chance that the law can be fixed, even though it's pretty bad, as was the bill on public enterprises, that's where you've been submitted with 30 amendments. You've accepted almost 20, and we've made some of that law in the end. In the meantime, you've been able to destroy it again, let's say by this appointment of the director of the railroad. Of course, our amendments are political. We are against the adoption of these laws, so we ask that all their members be deleted. Because I'm not voting for a loan to Srbiagas, which, among other things, has a basic herd of 2.264 pieces, a herd of 1,823 and a herd of 112 pieces. I don't know what growth is. If you want, you pay your loans to that company. We won't. You're not bound by anything, you'll find a way likely to enter the next government. Believe me, sometimes fate is more honorable, in this case certainly, experienced by the SRS. I think their position is more honorable than the position you're in the government with today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10249	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10250	You see, it is in written form that the same arguments, but in oral presentation, believe that they are different, unlike the government, which only gave one explanation, and not more. Let's put it this way, who runs the government you're sitting in? Somehow it seems to me that he understands this practice best, they had that word, now they don't. I said we were creative in writing the amendments. I didn't say we were original. Yes, that practice was introduced by those who now run the government, or the government headquarters, have a majority, have a president. In the battle for the better tomorrow, in trying to stop you from doing any more harm, when I say I still mean that you've done all this first with other partners, now you're working with those who understand this "get deleted", it's legitimate, I don't make obstructions, I'm talking argumentary, we've even brought you back to the agenda, you've started, not you, but the other, and we want to prevent what you all know is wrong. You all know. When you go home to your conscience, your conscience is part of humanity, you know we're right. What's the long way? Another way is to get a chance to explain again and again why this state-leading practice needs to be interrupted. That's why it's hard for us to listen when you're accusing each other, when there's objectively, at least on this and a thousand other examples, something called continuity. People have changed, but politics is hard to change. After all, maybe it's natural. Mr. Atlagic can't, that what he believed in for 40 years, changes now, like someone who's running his party now. That's why we said it was easy to change your mind, but it's hard to change someone else's thinking that got wrong when you had the wrong idea. When you say one thing for 20 years, and you drive hundreds of thousands of people crazy, and then after 20 years, you say, "I don't think so anymore," I mean, on the contrary, it's your responsibility to do everything you can to make those people who think wrong and whose politics, or political support, have brought the country into disaster, to tell them now, and you need to change your mind, like I did. I'm a responsible man, and I'm not just going to change my mind, but I'm going to do everything I can to change the opinion of hundreds of thousands of people who thought from white that it was black and from black that white and other people were trying to convince it. (Marian Rističević, from town: Yes, of white is flour. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10251	Thank you. The word is Mr. Atlagic. Here you go. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: Did you hear this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10252	The Honorable Chairman... (Bojan Đuric, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10253	Mr. Guric, you're welcome to use the microphone and sign in. You don't have to throw it at me. Previously on "Mr. Atlagic"... I gave Mr. Atlagic my word for the replica. Please be patient. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10254	Mr. Ostojić probably doesn't know who I am or what I am, or how I thought. I would really not comment on this, his opinion of me, and his opinion of the problems is known to the citizens of Serbia and beyond, and they know me, thank God. I don't know him either. I don't know how he got these grades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10255	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Đuric, Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10256	The manuscripts aren't up there, Mr. Atlagic, but that's less important. Did you hear Mr. Risticevic's remarks a few minutes ago, Mrs. Kovac? If you haven't heard, then okay, then there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think it's a shame for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10257	Thank you. I really didn't hear. I didn't really hear anything from this side. I followed the previous speaker. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10258	I don't know what my words hurt you, Mr. Atlagic? To tell you the truth, I saw you at the trial of Slobodan Milosevic. You were a witness there, and the other day when we discussed extending the mandate of soldiers on missions, you said it was in line with St. Sava's foreign policy and that we and the Russians had a relation of Orthodox Byzantine. I'm sure you've been a member of the Communist Union for decades, and I believe you've also performed high party functions in that party. That's what I was thinking, when someone was saying that Serbs are the oldest celestial people and that it's legitimate to do whatever it takes to defend the hearth. People who belonged to one ideology became infatuated with another ideology. Those who have gone mad, if they have changed their minds now, should do everything and return them to the right path. I don't think the right path has been what you've been for decades the Alliance of Communists, but I don't really think we're sending soldiers in line with the foreign policy of the Holy Sava.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10259	Thank you. The word is Mr. Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10260	I really don't know how to get a grade like this. I'd say one sentence about my testimony in The Hague. Mr. Ostojić, it is not my privilege to be a doctor of science, a professor, a man with ten books and 200 scientific papers, the greatest privilege. It is also my pride to defend the Serbian people and the state in The Hague, and your party president has delivered this former president to Vidovdan, which is the biggest disgrace in history. History will describe me and you and your president. She's already given the grade. Let's leave it to history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10261	Thank you. Now let's get back to the agenda. (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: What do you mean? I didn't understand, sir. I'm staying? What do I mean? Please, let's get back to the agenda. I guess I'm in charge of holding the session, huh? So if no one wants to talk about the amendment, we move on to the next amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10262	So I listed why we're asking for our amendment to be adopted. We think there will be irreparable damage by giving this guarantee and that the guarantee will be activated early next year, especially in circumstances where it is said that there will be no more guarantees. The story that a reorganisation plan is being prepared is an empty story, because that story has been going on for four years and has been mentioned every time we gave guarantees when the previous government demanded it. In any case, the situation in which representatives of the current government, the minister speaks so much of whoever runs "Srbigas", and then the government asks us to give a guarantee, you will admit that it is not quite natural and normal. At least in that context, when in some important things you can't agree on, platforms etc., it would be nice to withdraw these laws, to agree first, because that management should benefit from this new loan or another man should come. I remind you that the government has again appointed Bajatovic before the adoption of the Law on Public Enterprises, so that he does not fall under the influence of the Law on Public Enterprises, several days after the Minister said all this about Mr Bajatovic. Another appeal to respect our arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10263	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10264	This is the time of the amendment, of course. Well, with all these reasons we've been talking about so far, I have to go back to the first question I asked in tonight's debate, which is: exactly what exactly will 30m euros be used for that we give to "Srbigas", or for which "Srbigas" is owed under the South Stream project? A little while ago, I cited what is part of the company's basic assets, which was founded to provide gas for Serbian citizens. I'm going to add some more "Serbiagas" property now. It's coke and rooster. About 101 thousand had "Serbigas" at the end of 2011. I don't know, it's not about "Gasprom," which you're talking about so much, it's not about that kind of business and it's not about any other gas company in the environment or in Europe. There's a lot of talk here about getting better prices in the future. I am interested in this answer at this time, I expect Mrs Grubjesic, how is the question of paying back 30 million from the end of 2000 at the end of the year? To remind you, you know this well, it is the debt created by the government of Zoran Djindjic, or the government formed after "October 5th", that wanted to enter into the revision of the old agreement with Russia, the Mirko Marjanovic agreement, and in those few months the negotiations created that debt, and it has been unsettled until today. "Srbigas" has, according to Minister or Minister Bačevic, taken the obligation to repay the debt. From what means will this debt return and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10265	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10266	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is that we really wanted this law to be withdrawn from the procedure, because we are aware of the consequences that will take place if this law is passed, or if the ruling coalition is voted in this House for this law. We couldn't have done it any other way, or we couldn't have submitted the amendments in any other way, just so that every single member of this law, as well as all the other laws that are on the agenda today, were simply deleted. It is nothing unusual, it has already happened in parliament, it has been done by the legal predecessors of the headquarters party that is in power today and it is simply legitimate. We're right about that. However, you simply do not have the right to keep building that debt spiral. So you don't have the right to hire this country any more and you don't have the right to reason for it in the way of some of the previous governments. Now you're in power, you have to take that responsibility. You're the one who confirmed the mandate to the old-new director of Srbigas, you're the one who's talking, a little by the towers, a little by the media, a little by the yellow press, that you're not happy with the management of Srbiagas. But in fact, you're not doing anything. So he remains the head of "Serbigas" man who has been the director for the past four years. He's gonna run that big company again. You're continuing your borrowing. We have not seen in this reasoning of the law any, absolutely no argument that speaks in favour of why and how you think the purpose of the loan to be guaranteed will be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10267	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10268	I think we've already said enough about this, and I'm no longer going to analyze all aspects of why it's unacceptable for us to give new guarantees to Srbiagas in this way. But I have to finish this part on "Serbiagas" with one question that actually has the most to do with what your portfolio is, Vice President of the Government. I know that your political party, even when the energy agreements or the oil-gas agreements with Russia were written and adopted, was not satisfied with all their elements. What does the post of Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration look like today? Could any of the elements of these deals, these agreements, as they say, or some of the elements in meanwhile commitments, be problematic from the point of view of our European integration, whether from the point of view of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement or future negotiations on Serbia's EU membership?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10269	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10270	Since you're weak and you know, and you're talking a little bit about the Free Trade Agreement with Russia, I'm prepared. I assumed you'd ask me something like that. Simply, it is naturally imposed in every debate that your MP group is having. A free trade agreement with Russia provides that goods that can be proven to be originating in Serbia do not pay customs when intended for the Russian market, unless excluded from the free trade regime. This agreement will certainly be valid until Serbia enters the EU. When it's gonna be, I don't know, neither do you. We can only guess, but we're not gonna do that. I said I would never bid on dates like some who had done this job before me, and not only them, but everyone in this country loved to assess when Serbia would become an EU member. The basic principle of this free trade agreement with Russia is that trade is free, with the exception of a list of goods on which customs duties continue to be charged, and there are 39 products from Serbia on which customs duties are paid when imports into Russia and 17 products paid customs duties on imports from Russia to Serbia. In July 2011, a protocol was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime and on the rules and determination of the country of origin of goods, along with the 2000 Free Trade Agreement, and this protocol liberalised around 99% of trade with the Russian Federation. It is foreseen that customs duties are charged on a number of products in our exports. I wouldn't count the products now, I wouldn't bother you with that. But absolutely, this free trade agreement with Russia does not in any way interfere with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed with the EU in 2008 as the first contractual relationship between Serbia and the EU. If you think otherwise, give me only what part of the SAA or in which part of the Free Trade Agreement with Russia, where do these two things go down, overlap and where do they bother each other? So, let me repeat -- until Serbia enters the EU, which is one longer period, the free trade agreement with Russia will also be valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10271	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10272	I tried to be precise. These answers you gave are correct and they are very important, but it is not the only segment of our relations with the EU and Russia. So it's about some other elements. Meanwhile, there are some new tendencies, some new decisions by European authorities, especially when it comes to the desired diversification, so to speak, of the sources of energy, of those roads or of those sellers, of which they come. As you know, courts in different countries, I think, and the European Court, have at some point made decisions that have become binding. I asked you if our current contractual arrangements, for example, a recently concluded agreement on the long-term purchase of gas from Gazprom, or the Russian Federation, could be problematic in connection with the opening of different chapters in the negotiations? I'm not saying that they won't apply until the date of membership, I'm just saying that in the meantime we're either gonna have to change them, that we're kind of modifying them, which is possible in business, but then we're gonna owe the Russian side some sort of compensation or a pen, and that's never good. At this point, I thought of one more thing. For example, will we be able to comply with one of the key EU rules in the area of energy security, or security, which is either to have our own reserves, absolutely controlled, under our authority, oil derivatives in 90 days or to have our own oil company? Will we be able to make that happen with these arrangements with the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10273	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Grubeshic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10274	I don't know if we'll have our oil company by then, until we join the EU. I sincerely hope we will, like most of us, see. So far we have 49%. Sorry, we don't have any more. It's been sold. I'm sorry. We have 49% of the South Stream pipeline, but by joining the EU, I forgot to mention that, when the Free Trade Agreement with Russia ceases to apply, Serbia will apply the EU-Russia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which has been in force since 1997. The EU and Russia can be expected to conclude a new agreement, which is currently being negotiated and which will further liberalise mutual trade. Russia is a third EU import partner in importance. They are participating in total EU imports with 10.6%. When it comes to exports, Russia is the EU's fourth partner and participates in total exports with 6.4%. The new agreement currently being negotiated between the EU and Russia – the Modernisation Partnership, was designed to improve co-operation between the EU and Russia. So I don't see the need to explain it all the time or to have a dilemma of one or the other. Both are absolutely not excluded at this time, as far as economic co-operation is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10275	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10276	It doesn't rule out, of course, if the state smartly approaches the process. That's exactly what my ambition is for us to discuss. Energy co-operation, the price of gas, the conditions under which it is delivered, was one of the key topics of the EU-Russia summit meetings, which took place several days ago. I wonder if our government, is our country in any way involved in this process? We cannot, of course, participate, as EU member states can, but if there is already a framework that is already being created for us, hopefully as soon as possible, if Mr Atlagic's policy doesn't win, it is binding that we should at least be on that side of the negotiations, that is, making ourselves a framework that is best for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10277	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 6 of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON DANIJING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE CREDIT SUISSE BANK LONDON, VOVODJAN BANKE A NEW US, UNICREDIK SERBIA AD BELGRADE AND DEUTSCHE BANKE AG LONDON BY PURPOSE OF THE PUBLIC A "SRBIAGAS" NEW USA You have received amendments submitted to the proposal by the MPs: Judita Popović, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andrić and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10278	The following are the arguments. We've already provided guarantees of 70m euros for Galenika. It is worth 20m euros in bookkeeping. The revenue is 50, expenditure is 80, losses are huge, over 100 million. Someone said he was leaving the government case, that next year we'd try to find a strategic partner. It's a 100 million-dollar number...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10279	Mr. Standing, let me remind you, we're still talking about "Serbiagas." That's the second item of the agenda, not Galenika.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10280	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10281	You can move on. You don't want to? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF THE COMMETIONAL BANK AD BELEGRAD AND AIK BANKE AD NIŠ PURIJE "GALENIKE" AD BELENICA You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Judita Popović, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andrić and Kenan Hajdarević. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10282	Another contribution to public debt and this 15 million will certainly become public debt, given that Galenika is over-indebted. The same party again for the past four years at the head of the firm. Remember, we gave 70m euros in guarantees. It's just that it's clear that right now when we give a guarantee, it becomes a public debt. The company whose book value is 20 million is due for an additional 15 million. It will certainly be returned by the citizens of Serbia, and we will be happy that someone in the tender announced for spring, Galenika, buys it for one euro, so that we can get it on our feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10283	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10284	Maybe it's a good idea to repeat the terms of the loan one more time. This is about the Galenici loan guarantee, it's AD, with 100% state property. The interest rate is 6.95% plus the three-month eurybor, which means seven and a half percent. Of course, at this point, it is most important to look for a model that will allow Galenika to become a normal company. At this point, we don't have much, although the conditions of a crisis in the world of low-level pharmaceutical companies, Galenika, are an example of how bad management, which doesn't last for the last few years, those through various problems that exist with the company, lasts for over 20 years, and the company leads to a complete collapse. The key reason for this operation, namely the collapse of Galenika, is the organisation of a health system in Serbia, the functioning of a health insurance system, and resulting in the largest debt. The second part is the result of bad or arrogant management. That's what the other organs will do. It's clear why at this point we have to take credit on such bad terms. Our problem is that nothing has changed in the meantime. We have announcements these days by the finance and economics minister that the state will do anything to find, or Mr. Ljubic, that the state will do anything to find a strategic partner. I'm afraid that with a company with such performances and such an atmosphere in a country where a fight or a haranga against privatisation is being fought at the same time, privatisation is being announced, even if for one euro, it simply won't happen. So that I don't abuse time, I'll report to the next amendment, and then we'll end up with the Galenika section, just to see what the Galenika credits are like right now. They are much scarier than these 15m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10285	Thank you. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10286	Everyone swore, I think it was at the end of last year, perhaps at the beginning of this year, that 70m euros for Galenika was the last loan and that the situation would improve. I will read to you what the commitments were on the short-term loans of "Gallenice AD" on 31.12.2011. That's terrible. The postal savings bank of three million euros, the Post office of a million euros, the Sosite Genal, two million euros, the Sosite Genal, 73 million dinar, the Sosite General, 310,000 euros, the Universal Bank, 1.5m euros, Unicredit Bank, 127m dinar, Aik Bank, two million euros, Vojvodjanska Banka, 110m dinars with the currency clause, Aik Bank, 420m dinars, Agrobanka 1,635,000 dollars, "Intheza", the allowed minus, so the state-owned company takes a minus of 80m dinar, "Dunav Bank", whatever that is, 50m, "Comertial Bank", 140m, the state bank. Another loan from Agrobank of 1.539,000 Swiss francs. Agrobank allowed minus 100 million dinars. Long-term loans – 10m euros, Erste Bank Amsterdam. Now look what it means when you don't take the time, how we've warned you about the right measures for a company, when we pretend that the survival of socialism is possible. It's a loan from a few years ago. The interest rate was a three-month euribor plus 4.52. This loan we're now taking is a three-month euribor plus 6.95. I guess there's no better proof that this situation is unsustainable and that saving this company, in any way, for normal functioning, for private owners, is the only way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10287	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we are done with all the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON DANITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA INTES A.D. BELGRADE OF THE ACCIONARY SOCIETY FOR THE AIR COOPERATION OF "JAT AIRWAYS" A.D. BELGRADE You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Judita Popović, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andrić and Kenan Hajdarevic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10288	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really won't owe it. The colleagues Ostojić and Đurić talked a lot about how high these public enterprises are in charge, i.e. companies, and indeed there is really nothing more to be added to this. However, I cannot leave without comment this Article 4. In fact, it's the regressive right of the state to all these debtors, or those who took the loans, and they don't intend to return them at all, nor can they repay them. We heard why they can't get those loans back. Therefore, it was necessary to exclude this Article 4 from the Bill of Law as it was to be left out of all these other laws of that regressive right of the State. It's really a good time to stop pretending. It is highly in charge of public enterprises and companies, and we should be a little more serious about writing the contract, if anything. If we already accept that commitment to finance all the incompetences of these public enterprises from the budget, then let's make sure that whoever writes these laws takes care that the state returns, or the budget of Serbia, or each citizen in particular. Three loans from those on the agenda today concern liquid liquidity. So, three loans take effect the next day from the day of publication. What more do you say about these loans? I think it's all said tonight, but mostly the borrowing continues.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10289	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10290	Another 10m euros for JAT. At Srbigas and Galenika, there is some national interest that at least we have these companies or that we have some relationship or some share in ownership of them. I really don't understand if anyone else in this country believes that JAT, especially the way this country needs it. The idea of a national air carrier as a symbol of sovereignty and statehood has long been overcome. Many developed European countries no longer have state airlines, all wanted to have them, many richer countries than us failed to retain them, left the market to private carriers or some other forms of organization and saved their countries this much state aid. You know what maybe Serbian citizens can't get gas at this point, but through "Serbiagas", it's not possible to introduce any more serious competition. But Serbian citizens at the moment have the right to buy, have the opportunity to buy airline tickets for actually all the destinations that JAT flies to. When you want to fly to Rome on January 10th and return on January 13th you'll pay JAT's 200's card, exactly 200's, I checked it out a little while ago through various reservation systems but Al Italy's ticket will pay 163,97e. So, you have the opportunity to buy a ticket to Al Italy for 163e or buy this JAT and pay it 200e and pay for more who knows how much, as a taxpayer, by paying or returning JAT's loans. The ambition to make a new JAT or whatever it is called in a few months from scratch, and these debts, among other things, this 10m-euro loan plus a scary interest, is a fraud for Serbian citizens. At this point I will stop, I think we have already entered enough dark tones, that this debate has lasted too long and that, regardless of all our political differences, the sharpness in our discussions, that at the end of this session, this is practically the end of the autumn session, tomorrow there is only voting and all our colleagues in parliament, the members of the government here are currently only Mrs Grubeshic and the citizens of Serbia congratulating all these holidays and at least spend some time without that constant poisoning with politics or imitation of politics that is so often in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-28-0.u10291	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We continue our work Saturday, December 29th, at 10.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. I remind you, Article 168 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that, in the course of the session of the National Assembly, a proposal for a selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office may be put on the agenda of the session, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Member of the SNS Group, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Points: a proposal for a DECISION TO CHANGE THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES, which was tabled by the National Assembly on 27 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – there is no one with abstention – no vote – 26 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We continue to work and move on to a search on this agenda point. You have received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs, which you received details in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. Does the representative of Proposer Veroljub Arsic, president of the parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that there are no more statements on the parliamentary lists for the word and before the conclusion of a single search, I would like to ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right to do so under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a single review of the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, December 29th, 2012, starting at 10.20pm, as the Day of Vote on all agenda points of the 10th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We move on to a decision on the PROPOSAL OF PUBLIC PROGRAMME After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on public procurement to the vote, in principle. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – 35 abstentions – there are no, there are no seven votes, of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the amendments, written through the way, were withdrawn by the MPs: Bojana Bozanić, Dejan Mihajlov and Dušica Morčev to Article 3; Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic to Article 3. 63, 78 and 84; Ranka Savivić on Article 22; Vesna Jovicki on Article 7; Miroljub Stojčić on Article 85 and Zoran Kasalović on Article 141. The draft law; that an integral part of the bill became amendments submitted by the MPs: Together Janko Radaković, Jovana Joksimović and Biljana Hasanovic Korać to Article 10; Ranka Savic to Article 21; Olgica Batić to Article 23; Dejan Radenkovic to Article 141; Vladimir Marinković to Article 141. 136th and 144th and Vesna Jovicki on Article 141. It's a bill of law. Also, an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, submitted to Articles 7, 33, 57, 75, 77, 78, 79, 141, 174, 175, 177 and 178, as well as Annexes I and II of the Bill, since they were adopted by a representative of the proposings, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendments to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 164 of the present 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vojislav Vujic. The proposing representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 176 of 182 MPs in favour of – six, against – the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Mončev iGorica Gajic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 150 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 142 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Veličkovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 in total, the 181-nation MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of the 181 people's present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the total presence of 181 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 in total for the 181st MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkova, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 162 in total, 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Dusica Morčev and Petar Petkovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 28 and 28. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Djelic submitted to the 35th amendment. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Djelic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The proposer's representative and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 51, against – no one, with abstention – voted 132 of the total attendance of 183 national MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 36th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 171, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dejan Mihajlov and Dusica Morčev submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 37 and 37. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 168 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dejan Mihajlov and Dusica Morčev have submitted an amendment to the title above members of 40th and to Article 40. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 168 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Oleg Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted together to the 40th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 69, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 112, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic, Milorad Mijatovic and Slavica Savic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 170, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted together to the 54th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 153, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Djelic submitted to the 77th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic submitted together to the 78th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165, out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic to article 78. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic to article 80. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the 179 MPs, for – 40 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of 180 MPs, for – 34 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 84th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 168, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Aleksandar Antic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 85 be added after article 85. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 153, out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted the amendment to Article 86. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165, out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Bojana Bozanic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166, out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 92nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 171 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev together submitted the 92th amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Djelic submitted the amendment to Article 97. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of 179 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 103rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 113rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic to Article 113. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 164, out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 127th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – voted 163, out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the amendment to Article 139. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 141st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic, Jovana Joksimovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I beg your pardon. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morchev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I beg your pardon. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 145th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I beg your pardon. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 147th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one abstention – there are no 164 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 147. Together, the amendment was submitted by MPs Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Milan Lapčević. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 153rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 156th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ranka Savic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 157th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 157th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 161st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Petar Petkovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejčić, representatives of the promoter and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 165th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Petar Petkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 167th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Janko Radakovic and Jovana Joksimovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I beg your pardon. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Djelic and Janko Radakovic have tabled an amendment suggesting that the heads of IX and member of 168a be added after members of 168. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 152 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 169th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 135 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dusica Morčev, Dejan Mihajlov and Milan Lapčević submitted together to Article 175 of the amendment. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Janko Radakovic and Bozidar Djelic submitted the amendment to Article 178. The representatives of the proposing committee and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public procurement in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – 34, the abstentions – there is no vote, seven of the 179 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public procurement. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Development Fund of the AUTONOMAL END OF THE VOYVODINE. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Development Fund, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that – 158, against – 11 abstentions – there are no votes, not six out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you: that the MP Vesna Kovac, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law; that an integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments of the People's MPs Vesna Kovač to Articles 2 and 19, Mome Colaković to Article 4, Jelena Travar Miljević, Ana Novković, Dragana Djukovic and Jožef Šandor to Articles 8 and 14 and the Government's amendment to Articles 7 and 8. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – 26 abstentions, voted for 149 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Žika Gojkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 21 abstentions – voted 153 out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Jovan Palalić and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 151 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP Srdjan Shain. The assembly of AP Vojvodina and the government did not accept the amendment, in the basic text, and the amendments were not declared. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment, with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall consider the amendment, with a correction in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 15 abstentions – has voted 161 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 5th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – 15 abstentions – there are no 153 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The assembly of AP Vojvodina and the government did not accept the amendment, in the basic text, and the amendments were not declared. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment, with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall consider the amendment, with a correction in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, 146 of the total 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic and Jožef Shandor submitted to the 5th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – eight abstentions – there are no, 148 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina did not accept the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – 17 abstentions – voted 160 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 12th amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – 15 abstentions – there are no 153 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 7/1 The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – 20, abstentions – one, 148 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Jovan Palalic submitted the amendments together. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – 15 abstentions – no, 151 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, v – 18, abstention – one, 132 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Kovac submitted to the 15th amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - 16, the abstentions - no, 151 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic, Ana Novkovic, Dragana Djukovic and Jožef Shandor submitted the 20th amendment together. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – 12 abstentions – 154 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 21st. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, there is no vote of 10 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority, has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Development Fund, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, v – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, not four of the 177 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Development Fund. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENERGETICS SUPPORT After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 28, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted by the MPs: together Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic to Article 5; Katarina Rakic to Article 5; jointly Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Milan Lapčević to Article 6, as well as the amendment of the Government to Article 6. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 142 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 151 out of 175 MPs, for –24 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic and MP Olgica Batic. The government did not accept the amendments, and Olgica Batic's amendment did not come out. The resolution committee did not accept the amendments. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 150 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of the 176 MPs, for –24 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstention – voted 141 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication, as the bill provides for the law to enter into force on the next day of its publication. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 28, abstentions – there are no, 19 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 27, abstentions – one, 18 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Energy Act. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on synergy in the field of Energy before we move to a decision on the draft law, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to that proposal of the law, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill by majority of the votes of the MPs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON DANISING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIAS IN THE USE OF DEUTSCHE BANK AG LONDON PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC A PUBLICATION OF THE "SERBIAGAS" NEW NOW FOR THE RESEARCH OF THE SOUTH FACT I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Deutsche Bank AG London under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad for the realisation of the project South Stream, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – 15, abstention – one, 10 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 4, against – one abstention – there is no, 173 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 4, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 5, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 173 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 5, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Deutsche Bank AG London under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad for the realisation of the South Stream Project, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – five abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Deutsche Bank AG London under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad for the realisation of the South Stream project. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON DANIZING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF CREDIT SUISSE BANK LONDON, VojvodjanSKE A.D. NEW USA, UNICREDIT BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE AND DEUTSCHE BANK AG LONDON ON THE PUBLIC A.D. THE PUBLIC A.D., SERBIAGAS NEW NOW After THE National Assembly has conducted a search on the draft law, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105, paragraph 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing, mostly votes by all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Credit Suisse Banka London, Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Deutsche Banka AG London under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 39, the abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 176 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 9th. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the bottom of the publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, v – 18, abstentions – no, 32 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Credit Suisse Banka London, Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Deutsche Banka AG London under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, v – 37, abstentions – no, 13 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Credit Suisse Bank of London, Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d., Belgrade and Deutsche Banka AG London under the responsibility of Public Enterprise "Srbijagas" Novi Sad. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF THE COMMETIONAL BANK A.D. BELGRADE AND AIK BANKE A.D. NIŠ PURPOSE OF THE GALENICA A.D. BELGRAD Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, I remind you that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides most of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and AIK Banka a.d. Nis by Galenika a.d. Belgrade, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 38 abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The National MPs Judita Popović, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, abstentioned – did not vote 171 of the 176 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 170 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 171 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 20, abstentions – no, 29 of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and AIK Banka a.d. Nis according to the responsibility of Galenika a.d. Belgrade, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 39, abstentions – no, 12 of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and AIK Banka A.d. Nis under the responsibility of Galenika a.d. Belgrade. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society "JAT Airways" a.d. Belgrade, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 40, abstentions – there is no, 12 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 out of 179 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 173 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 173 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 173 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173, out of the 179 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, v – 22, abstentions – there are no, no 30 votes, of the 179 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society "JAT Airways" a.d. Belgrade, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 39, abstentions – there is no, no vote is 14, of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs has adopted the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT Airways" a.d. Belgrade. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEMBER STATES OF THE PROGRAMME COMMITTEE Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 1 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote of 37, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – one abstention – there is no vote, not 12, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. National MP Ivan Andric, at a session on 26 December 2012, at 18 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that those members of the MPs have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 26 December 2012, at 21 o'clock and 49 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 106, 107 and 113. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that those members of the MPs have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 28 December 2012, at 12 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to injuries by members of 27 and 103th position 5. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152, of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that those members of the MPs have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 28 December 2012, at 12 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 27, 103 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 153, out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that those members of the MPs have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 28 December 2012, at 12 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to injuries by members of 27th and 103rd position of 6th Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that those members of the MPs have not been injured. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, at a session on 28 December 2012, at 15 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 149, out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that those members of the MPs have not been injured. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 28 December 2012, at 15 o'clock and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 127, out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Parliament. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I wish you and your families the best in 2013. Allow me to congratulate all citizens of Serbia on your behalf and on behalf of the National Assembly for the coming holidays and to wish them a successful and advanced country. Now I ask you to listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. )
